

401 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Crime

BYLINE: By Marilyn Stasio 

 BODY:
CADILLAC JUKEBOX (Hyperion, $22.95) may be the most incoherent of the crime stories that James Lee Burke has set in the Louisiana bayou country of the Atchafalaya Basin. At the outset, Dave Robicheaux, the melancholy sheriff's deputy who broods over this series, seems to have a hard but unambiguous mission: to find out whether a redneck named Aaron Crown actually killed a civil rights leader back in the 1960's, and to figure out what this old crime, for which Crown has only recently been arrested, has to do with the upcoming gubernatorial election. But the investigation is soon mired in the violent history of New Iberia and the complicated relationships of its politically inbred families. A subhuman beast of a hit man crawls out of the swamp to silence police informants, and everyone from the New Orleans Mafia to Dave's wife warns him off the case.
Since nobody reads these sprawling, sweaty novels for narrative sense anyhow, it hardly matters when the plot self-destructs. What matters is that Mr. Burke is on a writing streak. Characters as vital as Aaron Crown ("There's always one guy hanging around to remind us of what we did or what we used to be") and Jerry Joe Plumb (a mobster with an endearing love of great jukebox music) don't grow on mangrove trees. For all the dirt it rolls around in, Mr. Burke's muscular prose is full of grace. 
 Charles Todd, an American, has written a first novel that speaks out, urgently and compassionately, for a long-dead generation and a world he never knew. Set in England in the aftermath of World War I, A TEST OF WILLS (Thomas Dunne/ St. Martin's, $22.95) is both a meticulously wrought puzzle and a harrowing psychological drama about a man's struggle to raise himself from the dead.
Inspector Ian Rutledge, just returned from France with a Medal of Honor and a bad case of shell shock, is sent to the Warwickshire countryside on an assignment that a cruel superior at Scotland Yard is certain will unnerve him. A distinguished army colonel has been shot to death, and his best friend, a decorated young captain who is engaged to the colonel's ward, is the prime suspect. To make matters unendurable for Rutledge, whose sanity is iffy, the chief witness is another veteran, a traumatized wretch held in contempt by the villagers as a coward who "lost his nerve on the Somme and went to pieces."
Mr. Todd gives us a superb characterization of a man whose wounds have made him a stranger in his own land, and a disturbing portrait of a country intolerant of all strangers. Much more than a rural homicide is at stake here, which makes Rutledge's painstaking efforts to break down the hostility and prejudice that confront him everywhere all the more agonizing - and honorable.
You haven't been west in any meaningful sense until you've been to Blue Deer, Mont., for the annual rodeo called the Wrangle, a wild and woolly ritual captured in all its vibrating colors in GOING LOCAL (Hyperion, $21.95), Jamie Harrison's madcap follow-up to "The Edge of the Crazies." Although the schedule stays pretty constant ("bareback, saddle broncs, the clown's act, more saddle broncs, team roping and the ladies' exhibition"), this year's festivities also include participants' losing important body parts and being kicked to death by an enraged bronco.
Jules didn't fully subscribe to the heroic notion of the West," Ms. Harrison says of Jules Clement, the young sheriff who has to clean up this mess. Even during his own rodeo days, this sweetly cynical hero had recognized the glorious idiocy of it all, been amused by the ironies even as he flew through the air." That sense of detached amusement, which Jules clings to for mental health, almost fails him when he has to find out who willfully ran over an environmental lawyer and his girlfriend while they were out camping and tossed their bodies (along with their tent, their car and their dog) into the reservoir. But with the help of some eccentric cronies, Jules manages to find the killer, get the goods on a land-grabbing development scheme - and rekindle our delight in Ms. Harrison's offbeat sensibility and tart regional voice.
There are lots of cities where a burned-out New York journalist might recover from a career crisis, but Kennebec, Me., a decaying mill town with a population of sullen hard-core unemployables and a polluted river that runs insultingly close to the boarded-up shops downtown, is not one of them. Jack McMorrow, the depressed newsman in Gerry Boyle's LIFELINE (Putnam, $22.95), makes a lunge at emotional stability by hiring on with the local newspaper as a court reporter. His gesture backfires when he starts filing stories exposing the shady practices of an assistant district attorney, a woman whose pitiless code of judicial ethics ("Shovel 'em in. Shovel 'em out") leads to the death of a woman Jack has befriended. Although Mr. Boyle overindulges his hero's lachrymose guilt feelings, his style is poised and pointed when he is writing about the barren lives of the hopeless cases who rattle in and out of court, like milk bottles on a conveyor belt."
It took only two books for Dennis Lehane to stake out the blue-collar Boston suburb of Dorchester as prime territory for a new private-eye series. In DARKNESS, TAKE MY HAND (Morrow, $24), Patrick Kenzie, the brash young hero, identifies this turf as "my neighborhood. A tiny, mostly forgotten, hardscrabble place of three-deckers and faded A-frames, cubbyhole taverns and corner stores." As he did in "A Drink Before the War," the debut novel that won him a Shamus Award from the Private Eye Writers of America, the author nails the distinctive accents and character traits of the all-too-human working stiffs who pace out their lives between Carney Hospital and the Black Emerald bar. Although Patrick is stuck in an absurdly improbable case involving a coven of serial killers who have been secretly preying on the neighborhood for 20 years, the new sleuth may yet find his way around the block.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: CADILLAC JUKEBOX (BOOK); TEST OF WILLS, A (BOOK); GOING LOCAL (BOOK); LIFELINE (BOOK) ; DARKNESS, TAKE MY HAND (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (76%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ENGLAND (76%); FRANCE (72%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ORGANIZED CRIME (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); SHERIFFS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ARRESTS (73%); LITERATURE (73%); ARMIES (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); SHOOTINGS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); WORLD WAR I (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (56%); ELECTIONS (55%); GOVERNORS (55%); 

PERSON: STASIO, MARILYN; BURKE, JAMES LEE; TODD, CHARLES; HARRISON, JAMIE; BOYLE, GERRY ; LEHANE, DENNIS JAMES LEE (92%); CHARLES R HARRISON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



402 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: Not With a Whimper but a Bang

BYLINE: By Dick Teresi; Dick Teresi is the co-author, with Leon Lederman, of "The God Particle."

 BODY:

THE END OF THE WORLD
The Science and Ethics of Human Extinction.
By John Leslie.
310 pp. New York:
Routledge. $23.
 
WHY THINGS BITE BACK
Technology and the Revenge of Unintended Consequences.
By Edward Tenner.
346 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $26.
 For Hindus, the end of the world is an inevitable consequence of an ever-cycling universe. A "day and night of Brahman," or a creation-and-destruction cycle, lasts 8.64 billion years. We are now at the tail end of one. To the Hopi Indians, the "people of peace" who live on the edge of Arizona's Painted Desert, this is a time of koyaanisqatsi, or "world out of balance." The present world will soon come to a violent end, but Pahana, a messianic figure, will return to usher in a new one. Most Americans find such apocalyptic visions, with their acceptance of destruction, intolerably alien. We do not feel "at one" with the universe, as the Hopis, Hindus and others do. We try to control the universe, and everything will be fine if we play our cards right. If we don't, a transcendent but irritable God is waiting to sit in judgment on us. 
 Two new books by men neither Hopi nor Hindu offer apocalyptic views. The first, "The End of the World," by John Leslie, is traditionally Judeo-Christian, quietly filled with fire and brimstone, but couched in technological terms. Mr. Leslie, a professor of philosophy at the University of Guelph in Canada, says the end is very near. He cites technological villains: nuclear, biological and chemical warfare, destruction of the ozone layer, the greenhouse effect, pollution and disease, as well as "risks often unrecognized." Among these are volcanic eruptions, asteroid and comet impacts, an ice age due to the earth's passage through an interstellar cloud, a nearby supernova, collisions of black holes or neutron stars, and "chaotic" breakdowns such as a dissolution of the planet's biosphere. He also lists man-made disasters -- "green scum" (genetically engineered organisms), "gray goo" (tiny self-reproducing machines), accidental production of a new Big Bang in a laboratory -- and annihilation by extraterrestrials, among other things.
 Mr. Leslie's major premise is that the end is near because a "fair proportion" of all people ever born are now alive. He never commits to a precise figure for this "fair proportion," though for the sake of argument he always uses 10 percent. It is nowhere near 10 percent. Ronald Lee, a demographer and economist at the University of California, Berkeley, says the accumulative population is projected to be 110 billion in the year 2000, with 6 billion of them, or 5.45 percent, still living. Now, the first two humans were 100 percent of the total. Even a few generations later, more than 50 percent must have been alive. So that 5.45 percent looks pretty good. But why does this matter? Mr. Leslie says it is more logical to assume we are in the very last 10 percent of humans rather than, say, in the first 0.01 percent; therefore, statistically, we are doomed.
 It's possible that much of "The End of the World" is tongue in cheek. Mr. Leslie's prose, untranslated from the original Canadian, is sometimes as hard to decipher as his math. There are endless exercises in logic. Which is not to say that "The End of the World" isn't a fun read. But Mr. Leslie never really tells us where he's coming from, though he cites physicists like Frank Tipler and Paul Davies, who are known not so much for accomplishments in science as for their efforts at reinterpreting modern physics to make it conform to traditional Western religious beliefs. He then drops bigger names, including three Nobel Prize-winning physicists, leaving the impression that such people have joined his apocalyptic bandwagon.
 Have they? Mr. Leslie writes that "an all-destroying phase transition" consisting of "a bubble of 'true vacuum,' " produced by an ultra-powerful accelerator, could expand through space at nearly the speed of light, destroying everything. He cites the physicist Leon Lederman and David Schramm, an astrophysicist, as predicting that we should have the technology to build such a machine by 2100. Mr. Lederman, with whom I once wrote a book, says, "That was a joke, an illustration of how one can extrapolate ad absurdum."
 To be fair, Mr. Leslie is no scientist, and his scenarios are oddly comforting. He places us at an important time in history (the end) and promises us a speedy resolution to our story. We're not Hindus, with eight-billion-year recurring cycles. We like our universe built in seven days, and we expect apocalypse on demand.
 A less expansive but more original book is "Why Things Bite Back." The point made by Edward Tenner, a historian with a Hopi attitude, is not so much that the world is going to hell as that technology simply allows us to get to our own koyaanisqatsi faster. We are threatened not with catastrophe but with subtle reciprocal effects, which he calls"revenge effects." For instance, when X-rays were introduced in the 1890's, they became a sensation: "People with foreign objects lodged in their bodies, even those who suffered no pain from them, now asked to have them extracted -- a procedure that sometimes had fatal complications." Today ecologists herald the use of chemical dispersants to break up oil spills. Shorelines are saved, but the petroleum is broken down into minute globules that sink below the surface, where they interfere with the reproduction of much marine life. Bird watchers who have built nesting boxes for Eastern bluebirds find their nests filled with house sparrows instead. Now the North American Bluebird Society recommends wringing the sparrows' necks or putting them in a sack tied to a car's exhaust pipe.
 Mr. Tenner dwells, appropriately, on labor lost to the computer revolution. "For many users," he writes, "computer software seems related to hardware as Thomas Malthus believed population responded to food resources: software does not just match but eventually outstrips hardware in their respective rates of growth. Users who do not have enough computer power spend more and more time waiting for their systems to finish work." The author also points out the hidden cost of "peer helpers" -- general employees shanghaied into trouble-shooting computer systems. Mr. Lederman and I once lost an afternoon trying to figure out where his new networked computer at the University of Chicago was printing out a file. We crawled endlessly, following cables, before we found our printout in a distant office. Here was the discoverer of the bottom quark and the muon neutrino being paid to locate a 38-pound laser printer.
 But the author's best shots puncture our attempts to manipulate the earth. Technology allows large populations to inhabit flood plains, but 500,000 lives may have been lost in the 1970 Bangladesh cyclone, mostly because of settlements on reclaimed land that normally would have been left uninhabited. Why doesn't California discourage people from continuing to build in quake-prone Los Angeles? Because Federal earthquake relief in 1994 is credited with accelerating the state's financial recovery by a full fiscal quarter.
 No one is safe from Mr. Tenner's analytical eye. There is even a vicious attack on Smokey Bear, whose simplistic philosophy (a simplistic bear!), he says, promotes suppression of natural fires that clean out the undergrowth. The result is a giant tinderbox of a forest in America.
 I am writing not for policy makers but for people stumbling through a Rube Goldberg world and trying to make sense of it. And I am arguing not against change, but for a modest, tentative and skeptical acceptance of it," Mr. Tenner writes. He has amassed a staggering amount of research in "Why Things Bite Back," all of it clearly and succinctly presented. His truest remark is that no futurist "has ever lost business because of a wrong prediction." I predict we will see a lot more doomsday books. Mr. Leslie might disagree, arguing that a "fair proportion" of all the doomsday books ever published are in print today and thus the end is near. I doubt it. These books will continue to multiply as we approach 2000. Then, when the rubble from all the New Year's Eve, 1999, parties is cleaned up, some malcontent will point out that the new millennium does not begin in 2000, but in 2001. That will be the real apocalypse: an extra year of doomsday books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: END OF THE WORLD, THE (BOOK); WHY THINGS BITE BACK (BOOK)

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (77%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (89%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (85%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); ETHICS (78%); PHILOSOPHY (78%); BIOETHICS (78%); RELIGION (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); OZONE DEPLETION (71%); LITERATURE (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (68%); GREENHOUSE GASES (68%); MEN (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (62%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: TERESI, DICK; LESLIE, JOHN; TENNER, EDWARD JOHN LESLIE (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



403 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: A Hard Habit to Break

BYLINE: By Christopher S. Wren; Christopher S. Wren covers illegal drugs and drug policy for The Times.

 BODY:

GLOBAL HABIT
The Drug Problem in a Borderless World.
By Paul B. Stares.
171 pp. Washington:
Brookings Institution. $24.95.
 
SMOKE AND MIRRORS
The War on Drugs and the Politics of Failure.
By Dan Baum.
396 pp. Boston:
Little, Brown & Company. $24.95.
 
DRUG WAR POLITICS
The Price of Denial.
By Eva Bertram, Morris Blachman, Kenneth Sharpe and Peter Andreas.
347 pp. Berkeley:
University of California Press.
Cloth, $48. Paper, $17.95.
 After nearly three decades and hundreds of billions of dollars, almost no one seems content with the war against illegal drugs. Prohibitionists keep blaming people overseas for America's addiction. Others propose legalizing drugs without explaining how legalization would work. Meanwhile, drug use among adolescents climbs, prisons overflow with dealers and users, and Congress cuts funds to treat the addicted. Americans look in vain to their leaders, who keep dodging the issue, especially in an election year. Now three new books suggest that most people who write about the subject aren't doing much better. 
 Of these studies, only "Global Habit," by Paul B. Stares, says something fresh. For the ordinary reader trying to understand why illegal drugs are such an intractable problem, the most rewarding book remains "Against Excess," by a Harvard professor, Mark A. R. Kleiman. (This 1992 study draws from a wealth of detail to stake out a pragmatic middle position between prohibition and legalization.) Still, Mr. Stares, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington, brings an overdue perspective in focusing on the devastation that illegal drugs are wreaking beyond the United States. Though he is skimpy with anecdotes, Mr. Stares possesses a dispassionate intelligence, and he lays out all sides of a complex argument (a courtesy overlooked by the other authors here). He documents that drugs are big business, generating revenues worldwide that by one estimate exceed the gross national products of three-fourths of the world's 207 national economies. "Estimates of the value of all global retail sales of illicit psychoactive substances range between $180 billion and more than $300 billion annually," he reports, "making the drug trade one of the biggest commercial activities in the world."
 And, he notes, the appetite for dangerous drugs shows no sign of abating. Combined sales of heroin, cocaine and marijuana in North America and Europe, where the number of users has declined since 1980, still add up to $122 billion annually, while in other regions use is spreading. There is little incentive for dirt-poor countries like Peru or Burma to stop growing coca leaf or opium poppies when such crops make more economic sense than legal alternatives.
 Mr. Stares recasts the old supply-versus-demand debate into a question of negative and positive controls. Negative controls, like sanctions against drug trafficking, should be maintained, he says, but positive controls, including treatment and prevention, must become the dominant means of reducing production and consumption. He argues for serious international cooperation, with a worldwide monitoring network, international prevention and treatment programs, and other responses to contain the drug epidemic.
 While Mr. Stares looks ahead, the journalist Dan Baum looks backward in "Smoke and Mirrors" -- with as much disgust as anger. "For more than a quarter-century the United States has been on a rampage, kicking in doors and locking people up in the name of protecting its citizens from illegal drugs," he begins, in what becomes a polemic about Government perfidy. He calls the nation's drug policy "as expensive, ineffective, delusional and destructive as government gets," and he tries to prove this by revisiting virtually every police blunder and drug bust gone awry. If law enforcement is as abusively inept as he depicts, the untold story here is why Americans still support the war against drugs. At least 85 percent of them, according to a December Gallup poll, oppose legalization. Presumably they would not feel better off if the 110 tons of cocaine Federal agents and police interdicted last year were available on American streets.
 "Smoke and Mirrors" does not lack for colorful writing, packaged in a progression of self-contained vignettes that the reader is left to connect. The politics are fascinating, from the Nixon White House's effort to turn the drug war to political advantage to the Carter Administration's brief flirtation with decriminalizing marijuana. When he lowers his voice, Mr. Baum does make some trenchant observations, and those seeking confirmation that the war on drugs is a bummer will relish the failures he serves up. But everyone else may ask what the alternative is, and Mr. Baum never quite says.
 It makes sense to argue, as do the scholars Eva Bertram, Morris Blachman, Kenneth Sharpe and Peter Andreas in "Drug War Politics," that the use of illegal drugs should be treated not as a crime but as a public health problem. But this idea is hardly original (even the new White House drug czar, Gen. Barry R. McCaffrey, has spoken of fighting a cancer, not a war), and the authors' case is not well served by their think-tank jargon. For instance, the political argument over whether tax dollars are better spent suppressing drugs and pushers or rehabilitating addicts gets framed in terms of a "punitive paradigm" versus a "public health paradigm."
 Elsewhere, the authors may break new ground in political correctness, quoting a child-health specialist as complaining that "Just Say No" campaigns in schools "aren't sensitive to the number of kids living in environments where people they love and depend on are using and selling drugs." They also sound nave in asserting that some marijuana use in the 1960's counterculture "had echoes of the rugged individualism and rejection of state authority of America's mythic past." Mr. Stares comes closer to the mark in writing that "for some, initiation into drug use may have less to do with the sensation that is expected to ensue than with the desire to conform to the behavior of a peer group, to observe the fashion of the moment or to demonstrate one's independence from others and societal norms in general."
 It would have been fascinating to know where the authors of "Drug War Politics" differ on key issues like legalization. Surely four experts who feel qualified to write about drug policy can't all think alike. But their conclusions arrive as watered down as a diplomatic communiqu, and when it comes to legalization, they waffle. Again, it is left to Mr. Stares to observe that the legalization debate is meaningless because it means different things, including decriminalization, to different people. "The real issue is what degree of regulation is appropriate for the common good," he says. "Regulation can take many forms and be applied to different areas of the marketplace." Legalizing drugs, Mr. Stares believes, would entail substituting some problems for others that are likely to prove costlier to society.
 "Smoke and Mirrors" and "Drug War Politics" unwittingly underscore a recurrent problem in writing about drugs: the aura of elitism that hangs over the discussion of alternatives. Legalization is usually bandied about by affluent whites who can afford large mortgages to finance drug rehabilitation for their own children if the experiment sours. No such cushion exists in the ghetto for poor black or Hispanic children. The risks need to be spelled out. Would cocaine and its viciously addictive derivative, crack, be included in a legalization program? If marijuana became available to adults, would minors find it any harder to buy than they now do beer and cigarettes? If heroin went on sale, would the cities of the United States become meccas for international druggies the way that Amsterdam and Zurich have?
 However flawed the war against drugs looks, any alternative seems destined to fail unless it seizes the public imagination enough to be voted into reality. That means solutions that make sense not just to scholars and writers but also, for example, to young mothers, whose voices are conspicuously absent from calls to dismantle the barricades. When the subject is illegal drugs, the devil truly hides in the details.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: GLOBAL HABIT (BOOK); SMOKE AND MIRRORS (BOOK); DRUG WAR POLITICS (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (72%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS ; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC DRUG POLICY (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (78%); HEROIN (78%); COCAINE (78%); CANNABIS (77%); LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (73%); OPIUM (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); RETAIL SALES (61%); 

PERSON: WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; STARES, PAUL B; BAUM, DAN; BERTRAM, EVA; BLACHMAN, MORRIS; SHARPE, KENNETH ; ANDREAS, PETER PAUL B STARES (91%); DAN BAUM (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



404 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 6; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Cultivating Blackfish Far From the Sea

BYLINE: By SAM LIBBY 

 BODY:
WEIGHING in at less than a pound, Tony is not a particularly impressive year-old tautog, or blackfish. But to scientists at the National Marine Fisheries Service Laboratory in Milford, Tony's voracious appetite and accelerating growth are signs that New Englanders may some day be able to farm blackfish far from the ocean, for profit, and to allow overfished stocks in local waters to recover.
Tony and three other fish are the only survivors of the first batch of blackfish conceived and hatched at the laboratory in 1995, said Dean Perry, a fishery biologist who heads efforts at the laboratory to develop cultivation techniques for blackfish. 
 The high mortality was caused by rapidly rising levels of ammonia in the nutrient-rich tanks where the juvenile blackfish are first raised, he said.
Juvenile blackfish are placed in what are called green water tanks containing algae rich in fatty acids, almost microscopic brine shrimp and microscopic animals called rotifers. The tank's waters are heated to about 69 degrees Fahrenheit to speed up the growth of the fry.
Unfortunately these are also prime conditions for the build-up of ammonia, which is in the juvenile fish's excretion, Mr. Perry said. Fortunately a lot of striped bass aquaculture work has already been done, and systems are being developed to remove ammonia from green water tanks. If economical techniques can be developed to raise 10- to 12-inch blackfish (weighing 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 pounds) in 18 months or less, there's definitely a very lucrative market waiting, said Dr. Anthony Calabrese, of the laboratory.
Connecticut fishermen can only keep tautogs that are 14 inches or more (about 2 pounds) despite the fact that 10- to 12-inch live tautogs are in demand in Asian fish markets. In some markets blackfish will sell for as much as $14 to $15 a pound.
Because of Asian fish markets' demand for live tautogs, many fish traps are being set for them, says David Simpson, a State Department of Environmental Protection fish biologist. The tautog is already one of the five most popular recreational fishing species in Connecticut.
But the tautog is a slow-growing and slow-reproducing species. The fish, which may live 34 years, does not become sexually active until it is 3 or 4. Only a relatively small percentage of its offspring will survive each year.
Surveys have shown a dramatic decrease in the blackfish population in local waters, particularly over the last two to three years, said Mr. Simpson. And the state has just enacted regulations that prohibit fishing for tautogs from May 1 to June 14 when they swim in to spawn.
Aquaculture will never be able to replace the oceans' resources, but it can provide significant amounts of food while giving fish populations a chance to recover and rebound, says Dr. Calabrese.
Although the National Marine Fisheries Service Laboratory helped revive Connecticut's oyster industry, and is also trying to re-establish a Connecticut scallop industry, its $2 million budget was on Congress' chopping block this year.
The blackfish aquaculture at the laboratory, which began last summer and is the only such effort in the United States, has only cost the laboratory $3,000 in new capital expenses, said Dr. Calabrese. This covered new filters, and the cost of modifying 30-foot tanks once used to cultivate oysters.
If the $2 million yearly budget for the laboratory is again approved, the tautog aquaculture work will be continued, he said.
It may someday be possible to raise blackfish to restock local waters, said Dr. Calabrese. One of the things the laboratory is trying to develop is a genetic marker that would allow tank-raised blackfish and their descendants to be identified in the wild.
In the past the government spent a lot of money to produce juvenile fish that were released in the oceans and immediately eaten by predators. So if any restocking of blackfish is attempted, it must be shown that these fish are surviving and reproducing, Dr. Calabrese said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE LABORATORY (MILFORD, CONN) NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE LABORATORY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE LABORATORY (MILFORD, CONN) NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE LABORATORY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FISHING, COMMERCIAL; BLACKFISH FISHERIES (91%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); FISHES (90%); AQUACULTURE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (78%); ANIMALS (77%); SPORT FISHING (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: LIBBY, SAM; CALABRESE, ANTHONY (DR) ANTHONY CALABRESE (89%); DAVID SIMPSON (55%); DEAN PERRY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



405 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER 

 BODY:

HIGH FIDELITY
By Nick Hornby. Riverhead, $12.
Rob, the narrator, is so obsessed with pop culture that he has difficulty separating it from his real life. A London record store owner who has just lost his girlfriend, he is both severely immature and relentlessly self-appraising. Mr. Hornby captures the loneliness and childishness of adult life with "precision and wit," Mark Jolly said here last year.
 
THE RICHER, THE POORER: Stories, Sketches, and Reminiscences
By Dorothy West. Anchor/Doubleday, $12.95.
Whether describing Martha's Vineyard or Moscow, sensitive children or stoic adults, the author brings keen observational powers and a mordant understanding to this collection, which ranges from her first short story, written when she was 17, to a much more recent essay in which she contemplates her own mortality. The last surviving member of the Harlem Renaissance, Ms. West, who is approaching 90, "has a naturalist's ear and eye for detail, an unsentimental view of human failings and a clear, crisp narrative style," Gwendolyn M. Parker wrote in the Book Review in 1995.
 
THE FAMILY ARSENAL
By Paul Theroux. Penguin, $11.95.
Just restored to print, this novel takes place among a small circle of terrorists in a dingy neighborhood of London in the 1970's. Including Hood, a failed American diplomat, all of them have embraced the Irish Republican Army for reasons that are probably more personal than political. In 1976 our reviewer, Lawrence Graver, called the book "an intelligent, absorbing thriller." Penguin has also reissued Mr. Theroux's earlier novel THE BLACK HOUSE ($10.95), in which an English anthropologist and his wife find their lives overtaken by a peculiar, perhaps ghostly, young woman. It is an ambitious but "inconclusive Gothic tale," Michael Mewshaw wrote in these pages in 1974.
 
MOVING VIOLATIONS: War Zones, Wheelchairs, and Declarations of Independence
By John Hockenberry. Hyperion, $14.95.
In 1976 an ordinary hitchhiking trip turned into an endless journey for the author: rendered paraplegic in a car accident, he was determined to overcome the limits of his new life. Now a television correspondent, he has written a "full-throated, driving and highly affecting book," Pico Iyer said here last year.
 
WHEN THE WORLD WAS STEADY
By Claire Messud. Granta, $11.95.
Emmy and Virginia are London-born sisters, but there the resemblance ends. Emmy, abandoned wife and world traveler, has always believed in free will; Virginia, in familial duty and divine providence. Their fictional odyssey makes for an "assured and engaging debut," James Marcus wrote in the Book Review in 1995.
 
TRUST: The Social Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity
By Francis Fukuyama.
Free Press/Simon & Schuster, $15.
The author argues that civic organizations not only promote democracy, they also boost the economy. Last year our reviewer, Fareed Zakaria, took issue with some of Mr. Fukuyama's points but found his analysis "dazzling in its intelligence and complexity."
 
THE AGE OF MIRACLES: Stories
By Ellen Gilchrist. Back Bay/Little, Brown, $11.95.
Rhoda Manning, a middle-aged, hard-drinking writer and frequent character in the author's fiction, appears in many of these 16 tales. Ms. Gilchrist "blends a sense of poignancy with an often outrageously Gothic humor," Diane Cole said in these pages in 1995.
 
THE FORBIDDEN BEST-SELLERS OF PRE-REVOLUTIONARY FRANCE
By Robert Darnton. Norton, $14.95.
The "pulping room" of the Bastille was the 18th-century precursor of the bureaucratic paper shredder. But the author shows that a large underground literary industry continued to publish Rousseau, Voltaire and many others. His is a "graceful, informative and humane book," John Sturrock wrote here last year.
 
DOSTOEVSKY'S LAST NIGHT
By Cristina Peri Rossi. Picador USA, $11.
Jorge is addicted to bingo, and being a suave European rather than a polyester-clad American, he goes to an analyst instead of Gamblers Anonymous. Jorge's musings on gaming and literature "are often eye-catching," Erik Burns said in the Book Review in 1995.
 
DIVIDED LIVES: The Public and Private Struggles of Three American Women
By Elsa Walsh. Anchor/Doubleday, $14.
The author examines the conflicts between the professional and personal lives of Meredith Vieira, a television news reporter; Alison Estabrook, a surgeon; and Rachael Worby, a conductor and the First Lady of West Virginia. The question of domesticity versus achievement is also at the heart of EINSTEIN'S WIFE: Work and Marriage in the Lives of Five Great Twentieth-Century Women, by Andrea Gabor (Penguin, $12.95). The subjects here range from the physicist Mileva Maric Einstein, whose famous husband appeared to feel threatened by her, to Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor. Reviewing both books in these pages last year, Jill Ker Conway felt they gave insufficient credit to feminism but "will be useful grist for the theoretical mill." Laurel Graeber

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (50%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PAPERBACK BOOKS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (75%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); MUSIC STORES (72%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); PARALYSIS (62%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GRAEBER, LAUREL

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



406 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 3; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 143 words

HEADLINE: Outsiders

 BODY:
To the Editor: The "summer people" syndrome that Suzanne Berne describes ("Strangers in a Familiar Land," July 21) is not limited to Cape Cod, but extends west at least as far as Lenox, Mass., where my wife and I recently vacationed.
The price of everything was two to three times as high as in major Eastern metropolitan markets (almost $200 a night for a no-frills room in an economy-class chain motel) and the year-rounders more than justified their reputation as a price-gouging "grumpy servant class" dedicated to parting the tourists from their money. 
 The few exceptions we found only proved the rule. On the basis of our recent experience in the Berkshires area we have deleted it, along with Cape Cod and the other highly touted Eastern Seaboard resorts, from our list of future summer vacation spots.
 
DONALD GRESCH
Lansing, Mich.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAPE COD (MASS); UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (86%); LEISURE TRAVEL (85%); HOTEL CHAINS (69%); 

PERSON: BERNE, SUZANNE; GRESCH, DONALD SUZANNE BERNE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



407 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3010 words

HEADLINE: A New Taste for Postwar Co-ops

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
THEY are often called "white bricks" or, simply, "plain vanilla" -- the flat-fronted apartment houses built in the 50's and 60's and early 70's on most major residential thoroughfares in Manhattan.
They are what the apartment seeker may think of as simply "postwar" -- despite the fact that the condominium towers erected in the 80's and 90's are postwar too. Built as rentals, many were later converted to co-ops. And until recently, apartments in these vanilla or beige or red-brick buildings -- buildings with their unmistakable triple-aluminum windows and their perforated screen "patios" and terrazzo-floored lobbies -- were, by and large, a tough sell. 
 "You couldn't give them away," said Janet Silver, who specializes in such buildings for Bellmarc Realty, a Manhattan brokerage firm known for offering moderate-priced apartments.
Buyers didn't like the way the buildings looked from the outside -- they weren't perceived as having "class." And beyond that, the buildings were castigated for their lower ceilings, their allegedly shoddier construction details -- like paper-thin walls and glued-on parquet-floor tiles -- and their kitchens and bathrooms, which reeked of their period, deemed unchic by acolytes of prewar buildings.
But things have changed. Faced with rising rents and a dearth of fine prewar spaces, apartment hunters are discovering the fine points of postwars: Many are cheaper, many have better views, many have garages and many have more-lenient boards, making tasks like simply getting in, or ripping out everything and putting in prewar details, a lot easier to accomplish. "Postwar buildings are surging -- because they had fallen farther and faster than the others and they had nowhere to go but up, way up," said Nat Plotkin, chief operating officer for S. Goodstein Real Estate.
Goodstein, which put up eight of these buildings in the 60's and early 70's as rentals, decided to start converting them to co-ops in the early 80's. In the mid-80's, as nonbuying tenants gradually left, the developers put the vacant apartments up for sale. When the market crashed, they changed their approach and rented out the unsold vacant apartments.
This April, those apartments were put on the market again. Prices for typical one-bedroom postwar units throughout Manhattan, Mr. Plotkin said, are at least 20 percent higher than they were two years ago.
But it's not only that prices are higher, realtors say. Apartments that just didn't sell -- for almost any price -- are finally starting to move.
"Remember that building that blew up in Gramercy Park?" asked Ms. Silver, referring to 32 Gramercy Park South, a postwar building that was the victim of a Con Edison steam explosion that spewed asbestos throughout the building. Even before the explosion the building had another problem -- inordinately high monthly maintenance charges. "We're even selling in there," Ms. Silver said. "People are buying everywhere."
As for postwar two-bedroom co-ops, the agent said they often traded at the asking price, with no negotiation. At 211 East 53d Street, a building put up by Rose Associates in 1958, "we sell that stuff in the first week," she said. At 170 East 87th Street, Apartment 11G went into contract quickly last month for $395,000 -- the same apartment that had sold in May 1993 for $251,000, according to the Corcoran Group, a Manhattan real estate firm.
The trend is borne out in a survey of 1,172 closings completed last week by Mitchell, Maxwell and Jackson, real estate appraisers, for the Corcoran Group. In buildings built between 1945 and 1975, the average price per room citywide has increased from $52,178 to $54,553 in the last year. In a number of locations -- midtown east, Sutton/Beekman, Greenwich Village and Central Park West -- average room prices rose dramatically. In Greenwich Village, postwar room prices soared from $45,279 to $65,185 in one year.
Statistics released last week by Brown Harris Stevens, a Manhattan real estate brokerage, also show a marked trend in the larger postwar apartments. "Although prewar apartments are typically assumed to be more expensive than postwar apartments, this has not consistently been the case," said Larry Sicular, chief statistician for the company and co-author of its market report. In Manhattan's most expensive neighborhoods -- where Brown Harris does most of its business -- Mr. Sicular found that prices for 6-, 7- and 8-room postwar apartments "often exceeds the prewar price."
According to Dolly Lenz, Sotheby International Real Estate's top saleswoman, prices at the city's poshest postwars have soared within the last year. She named Imperial House, at 150 East 69th Street, as "a real white-brick building -- Liza Minnelli lives there -- with huge rooms, a circular driveway; a six-room apartment trades for $1.5 million."
The Sotheby's agent listed the Sovereign, a 1970's reddish-brown-brick building at 425 East 58th Street -- where two apartments were combined to make a $4.5 million, 6,600-square-foot 5-bedroom -- as well as 860-870 United Nations Plaza and 1001 Fifth Avenue, at 80th Street, as postwar buildings for millionaires. And, Ms. Lenz said, the buildings have waiting lists for apartments.
Mr. Sicular listed others: apartments at 857, 860 and 900 Fifth Avenue, all postwar buildings in the high 60's and low 70's, sold for over $2 million in the last 18 months.
EVEN at the low end, studio and one-bedroom postwar apartments without views, only a few years ago widely considered a drag on the market, are starting to move with alacrity, brokers say. Apartments that traded for as little as $85,000 are now trading for over $100,000.
And postwar apartments are selling faster than they were a year ago. On the East Side, they averaged 7.9 months to sell, compared with 8.2 months a year ago, according to the Real Estate Board of New York; on the West Side, they sold 9 percent faster than last year, in an average of 4.9 months.
"The most obvious reason for the surge is that rents in these buildings have gone up so dramatically," said Mr. Plotkin. "Three years ago, anyone signing a lease at market rate might pay $1,000 a month; now they'd be paying $1,600 to $1,700 a month. They might as well buy the apartment and stay in the building and have a totally secure tenancy." Mr. Plotkin argues that it's cheaper to buy than to rent. "And I'm not talking about after tax," he said. "I'm talking about before tax."
Mr. Plotkin furnished several examples of the price rise: at 201 East 17th Street, built in 1973, the Goodsteins have contracted to sell a one-bedroom apartment on the 24th floor for $130,000; in February of this year, the same apartment eight floors higher sold for $117,500. In November of last year, the same apartment on the 20th floor sold for $109,000, he said. (The most recent apartment sold belonged to the Goodsteins; the others were private sales.)
The Goodsteins, who decided in April to put their rental apartments on the market as soon as they become available, have put seven apartments up for sale. "We've closed on one," said Mr. Plotkin. "We have signed contracts on three more and we have accepted offers on two others, so there's just one without serious interest."
According to brokers, the smaller postwar apartments have become hot for several reasons: first, young people -- like Isabelle Wong, who just bought a studio co-op at 201 East 21st Street for $86,000, or Joseph Boggess who just bought a one-bedroom in the same neighborhood for $110,000 -- are finding they can actually buy an apartment for less than they would pay in rent, sometimes, as Mr. Plotkin said, even without factoring in the tax deductions for mortgage and maintenance.
Second, couples with young children -- couples still young enough to take on the permit and construction processes -- are buying several of these white-brick apartments and combining them, turning two one-bedroom apartments into a three-bedroom, for a lot less than they'd pay for a finished three bedroom. Then there are just the changing times, when the well-to-do are starting to live anywhere that takes their fancy: in a TriBeCa loft, a former sausage factory in Chelsea -- or a white-brick building near Second Avenue.
And there are other, more subtle differences. The boards in the white-brick buildings may be less stringent in admitting new residents and letting them do work on their apartments. And the staffs may be more cohesive than those in the newer buildings -- a subtle factor nevertheless mentioned by several new owners of apartments in postwar buildings.
"Look, these buildings were built 30 years ago and they're not trend-setting, they're not on the cutting edge, they're not glitzy," said Adam Rose, an executive vice president of Rose Associates, whose family has converted eight postwar rental buildings to co-ops. "But their operating costs are extremely predictable -- and modest. The doormen and building staff have been in place for a long time, and the buildings have settled into a very comfortable mode.
"They are what they are," he said. "No one's pretending they're going to win an architectural award, but at the same time, they're by no means embarrassing. It's just very solid and respectable housing."
Ms. Lenz of Sotheby International said one reason the postwars are booming is that "in a way, they're more practical."
"They have central or through-the-wall air-conditioning," she said. "Their systems are newer. Most postwars have 15-foot-wide living rooms, as compared with the tiny rooms in the 80's buildings. They have newer windows; they don't have leak problems -- and the buildings generally don't have summer work rules," which require that major alterations be done only in summer. In fact, Ms. Lenz said, "they don't have all the things that prewars have -- including the ridiculously tough boards that are getting worse."
In his comparison of larger prewar with same-sized postwar apartments, Mr. Sicular found that the postwar apartments that were sold tended to be on higher floors (because of the greater height of many postwars), that the postwars had better views (partly for the same reason) and that 70 percent of the postwars had maids' rooms, surprising because one tends to think that by the 60's, lifestyles did not include live-in help.
While many of the smaller nondescript postwars appear to be selling solely because they are cheap space, other postwars sell because of the differences Mr. Sicular found. Aside from the large prewar apartments facing Fifth Avenue, Central Park and the rivers, prewars generally don't have spectacular views. (Park Avenue's poshest apartments, after all, feature views of other Park Avenue prewar buildings.)
And prewars are old -- which is, to many buyers, a double-edged sword.
LIKE many apartment shoppers, Arlene Gray was convinced she wanted a prewar apartment.
"One of the reasons was that it was our understanding that with the construction of prewar homes one did not hear noises through the walls," said Mrs. Gray, who has just retired after 30 years with the city's Board of Education. "Prewar buildings seemed to me to have a character."
But after seeing a few prewar apartments -- the Grays lived in a nine-room house in the Bergen Beach section of Brooklyn -- she decided she "preferred new and shiny; the character shines through in the old buildings, but so does the musty smell and the amount of renovation required."
"When we looked at one of the bathtubs in a prewar I saw my husband cringe and I knew we'd have to change over," she said.
The Grays began looking for two-bedroom apartments, but ended up paying $325,000 for a one-bedroom, two-bath postwar co-op on East 56th Street near First Avenue. Before they closed on the 30th-floor apartment two months ago, the Grays spent time in the vacant space listening for noise.
"My husband wanted absolute quiet, and it's just not possible," she said. "There is an occasional rustle upstairs, but even he's a convert now. The building is very well constructed."
Another plus for postwars is the garage space often available underneath. "We have two cars, and my husband is delighted to park his downstairs," Mrs. Gray said. "I'm trying to figure out what to do with mine."
In the end, the couple decided to spring for the expensive 1,100-square-foot one-bedroom (they had looked at a two-bedroom in a postwar building on Sutton Place, for $30,000 less, but it had no view and was noisy), largely because of the size of the rooms, the renovated bathrooms, the balcony -- and perhaps most important, the view. "At night, we see the Empire State Building and the Chrysler Building," Mrs. Gray said. "The view is worth everything."
Down in Greenwich Village, Michael Bolanos also treasures his view from the top floor of Georgetown Plaza, the 1967 postwar building at 60 East 8th Street, a co-op he says is run more like a condominium, with subletting allowed and the condominium-like provision that if the board doesn't like the person who wants to buy into the building, it must buy the apartment itself.
Mr. Bolanos, a young computer/Internet wizard who has been profiled in several newspapers' financial pages, bought his two-bedroom apartment in March and is proceeding largely to gut the place, knocking out the wall between the bedrooms and creating a huge master bedroom/media screening room, with an adjoining Japanese bath complete with shoji screens. He bought the apartment for $360,000. In January 1995, the same apartment two floors down, with presumably the same sweeping views, sold for $327,000. Mr. Bolanos's own apartment was in itself bought in 1992 -- at the depth of the recession -- for $299,000, according to the Corcoran Group, which made the most recent sale.
The ascending numbers, according to Barbara Corcoran, are at least partially caused by the diminishing supply of stunning prewar apartments. "People who two years ago hadn't considered looking for a postwar have nothing to see," she said. "They realize now that they may love the panache of the prewar and the sex appeal of a new condo -- but that they can get more space looking at a postwar."
Mr. Bolanos is delighted with his 1,400-square-foot apartment and initially compared it not to prewar apartments but to new buildings like Millennium Tower on West 67th Street, where two-bedroom apartments sell for over $1 million. Standing in his living room, which is stacked with the unhinged, painted trompe l'oeil hollow-core doors of his predecessor -- an interior designer who is helping him create his own look -- and which has a fluted faux-finish column lying, uprooted, at his feet, he outlined his strategy.
With electricians and designers and his own personal designer hovering nearby, Mr. Bolanos said he had told them -- he repeated it loudly -- they were to spend no more than $150,000 for the near-total renovation (the kitchen will stay pretty much the same as it was when he bought the place). The total, counting purchase price, would be $510,000, a figure he said he knows he could get back in lightning time, should he ever decide to put the place on the market.
Comparing his apartment to prewars, he said he thought his walls were actually thicker. (Later, he explained that he had looked mainly at prewars in brownstones, which were built as single-family houses and usually do not have the thick walls of prewar apartments.) He also said he thought the windows were better built, and certainly taller and glassier, permitting panoramic views like the ones he has from bedroom and living rooms -- one of the great views north over Greenwich Village and up to the Chrysler Building.
Mr. Bolanos, who consulted an astrologer over the closing date, said the apartment was, simply, "what I dreamt of all my life." Because the bank couldn't work it out soon enough to meet the date he wanted, he paid cash -- and got the mortgage later.
"This is a very cool place," he said. "The board president went along with me, and the doormen are convivial. And they've been really cool about the alterations."
ABOUT 17 blocks north, in the unlabeled area just north of Gramercy Park, Joseph Boggess, a fashion and makeup stylist, has also purchased a postwar apartment. But where Mr. Bolanos is relying on a crew of professionals -- and decorating in an earthy, Japanese style -- Mr. Boggess is doing much of the work at 245 East 25th Street himself and making his postwar apartment into a prewar apartment in terms of design.
Mr. Boggess is transforming what was a fairly boring space -- one walked right into a view of the front hall closet and then turned into a standard living room -- by adding little walls, putting in crown moldings around the ceilings, separating the rooms with French doors and, perhaps most strikingly, adding a paneled wainscotingaround the living room and the bedroom. The cost of totally renovating the $110,000 one-bedroom co-op apartment will approach $32,000, he said. A comparably renovated same-size prewar apartment, he said, might cost upward of $225,000.
What is unusual about his renovation is that it is so extensive for such a small apartment. According to Ms. Lenz, such "prewar wannabe" renovations are commonplace for the more expensive apartments. "About 80 percent of the postwar buyers do the whole prewar thing, with the crown moldings," she said, adding that two years ago she bought a big postwar apartment herself on the Upper East Side.
"I gut-renovated my place," she said. "I did everything you could possibly do." She said she had spent about $200,000 on prewar details and other renovations in her 1,700-square-foot, five-and-a-half-room apartment at 84th Street and Madison Avenue. "I put in moldings and pillars," she said. "I guess I subconsciously took the whole postwar building stigma thing to heart."
But now, she said, she's happy. "After all, I did choose to live here," she said, "and putting in the prewar touches gave me a better feeling about the whole thing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arlene Gray on the terrace of her postwar one-bedroom apartment on East 56th Street. "The view is worth everything," she says. Steven and Ivan Goodstein on East 15th Street, outside two of their postwar buildings. They have begun putting unsold co-op apartments on the market again. (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Joseph Boggess bought a one-bedroom postwar at 245 East 25th Street for $110,000. He said he is turning his postwar into a prewar, in terms of design, for about $32,000. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE JANET SILVER (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



408 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 10; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: HOME REPAIR;
How to Put Fluorescent Lighting to Its Best Use

BYLINE: By EDWARD R. LIPINSKI 

 BODY:
IN 1938, the first practical fluorescent light fixtures were introduced in the American marketplace. These lights used less power and lasted longer than incandescent bulbs, so they quickly became the standard in offices, stores and industry.
Homeowners were less enthusiastic. They found the fluorescent light too cold. In addition, the fixtures were unattractive. Most people confined their use to places like kitchens, bathrooms or laundry rooms. 
 In recent years, however, manufacturers have worked to overcome these shortcomings. They applied the technology of triphosphor chemistry to develop tubes with a warmer glow. In an effort to replace the long tubes and unsightly fixtures, they developed compact fluorescents that are close to the size of an ordinary incandescent bulb, and they have screw-in bases so they can be used in standard incandescent fixtures.
A fluorescent tube differs from an incandescent bulb in structure and in the way it produces light. The inside of the tube is coated with a fluorescent powder called phosphor. The tube is sealed on either end with a cap that holds an electrode -- the cathode. An inert gas, usually argon or a mixture of argon and neon, and minute droplets of mercury are within the tube.
Current passing through the cathodes causes them to emit electrons that ionize (electrically charge) the gas. The ionized gas becomes a conductor allowing increased current (arcs) to jump from one cathode to the other. These arcs heat the mercury droplets into vapor that emits ultraviolet rays. The rays strike the phosphors on the sides of the tube and energize them into visible light. While all this sounds complicated, it happens quickly; the cathode discharges 120 arcs a second.
Besides the tube, fluorescent fixtures had two other components: a ballast unit and a starter. The ballast unit is essentially a transformer that controls the amount of current passing through the cathodes. The starter is a small metal canister with an inert gas and two bimetallic contacts enclosed in a glass bulb.
When the lamp is switched on, the starter allows current to flow from one cathode to the other so that they can warm up and generate a cloud of electrons. The ends of the tubes begin to glow, but no appreciable amount of light is generated. In a few seconds, the cathodes reach operating temperature and the starter contacts open. The current must now arc across the cathodes to complete the circuit, and the entire tube lights up. Once the lamp has started, the ballast regulates the current so the electrodes do not burn out prematurely. At first glance, it would seem that the compact fluorescents do not have the ballast or starter, but, in fact, miniature versions of these components are sealed in the glass globe.
Fixtures with starters are called pre-heat lamps, and they are efficient and reliable, if the starter is replaced periodically. Still, most people found the two- or three-second start-up delay annoying, so designers developed instant-start and rapid-start models.
Instant-start fixtures use a special ballast with a large transformer. The transformer generates a high voltage -- as much as four times the normal voltage -- that immediately arcs the current across the cathodes. Once the cathodes reach operating temperature, the voltage is cut back. Since the unusually high voltage can be potentially dangerous, most fixtures have an automatic cutoff switch in the tube sockets. This switch shuts off the power to the ballast whenever the tube is removed. Instant-start models can be easily recognized by the pin configuration at the end of the tubes. Instead of the usual twin pin contacts, there is only one pin at either end.
The disadvantage to the instant-start fixture is that the ballast is large and bulky. These units are being replaced by rapid-start models. In the rapid-start fixture, the ballast provides an initial low-voltage current that quickly warms the cathode. It then steps up the voltage to provide the necessary arc. Unlike instant-start units, the rapid-starts units use the standard double-pin tubes. Both instant and rapid-start units draw more current than the pre-heat models, but they are still more economical to run than incandescents.
W HILE most fluorescent fixtures are maintenance-free, occasionally problems can pop up. Sometimes a problem may be with the tube. For example, a light that frequently blinks on and off may be an indication the tube is near the end of its life. Try replacing it with a new tube. If the problem still persists, shut off the power and check the wiring.
Eroding electrodes will cause to ends of the tube to blacken. This is a sign that the tube is nearing the end of its working life and should be replaced.
Sometimes the tube ends emit an orange glow. This happens with pre-heat units as the cathodes are warming up. The warm-up phase and accompanying orange glow should shut down when the tube lights up. If it doesn't, replace the starter.
It's not uncommon for brand new tubes to flicker a little, but this should stop after a few minutes of operation. Constant flickering, however, may indicate that the ambient temperature is too low. Fluorescent lights work properly only when the temperature is at least 50 degrees. For low-temperature environments, you can purchase special low-temperature tubes and ballasts.
In some cases, the fixture may emit an audible hum. Usually this indicates a loose ballast unit that is vibrating against the fixture. You can correct this by tightening the mounting bolts. It may be, however, that the ballast has an internal short circuit. In this case, you'll have to replace the ballast with a quieter A-rated ballast.

GRAPHIC: Diagram

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: LIGHTING HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); 

PERSON: LIPINSKI, EDWARD R

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



409 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 15; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX;
Metamorphosis in Suburbia

BYLINE: By FRANK J. POPPER; Frank J. Popper, who lives in Highland Park, teaches in the Urban Studies and Community Health Department at Rutgers University.

DATELINE: HIGHLAND PARK

 BODY:
AMERICA is going global. America is going gray. How do the two trends play out -- and off -- against each other in suburbia?
Highland Park lies at the center of New Jersey, at the fringe of both the New York and Philadelphia metrowebs. It sprang up in the late 19th century as a streetcar appendage to New Brunswick across the Raritan River and eventually blended into New Jersey's vast middle-income suburbia. Today Highland Park has a population of 13,300, on 1.8 square miles. 
 The town orients itself along two intersecting main streets, Raritan and Woodbridge Avenues. Its businesses mostly group on or near the two streets, its homes mostly off them but an easy walk away. (The town has a large Orthodox Jewish population for whom the walking scale is a Sabbath convenience.) In less than a mile each that includes some residential stretches, Raritan and Woodbridge present 15 beauty salons, 15 car-repair shops, 9 car dealers and 4 banks.
The borough typifies the off-brand little mishmash towns where most Americans actually live. It doesn't matter if the towns are called cities or suburbs. Highland Park offers a small slice of the real America.
Like many such towns, Highland Park has become less provincial in the last decade, more open to national and global influences. In 1986 it had one bookstore; now it has three. The national financial revolution has eliminated two banks since 1986 and given the other four non-local ownership.
Food, always the most street-visible product of Highland Park, has become deprovincialized, too. The White Rose Diner gentrified itself with outside tile, the inside removal of cheesecake calendars and their replacement by thin-Elvis and '50's fin-car pictures. The town has two new health-food restaurants and a health-food store. New Chinese, Israeli, Italian, Spanish-Mexican and Thai restaurants have opened.
The town is starting to look more international. A decade ago it was almost entirely Catholic and Jewish, with a well-hidden black ghetto. Increasingly, South Asians, especially Indians, own its groceries and gas stations. Of its six video outlets (up from one in 1986), three sell only Chinese, Greek or Russian tapes. A recent high school graduating class of 80 had six immigrants from Taiwan, five from Russia, three from Korea, two from Poland, one each from Madagascar and Sierra Leone and four from Latin America.
Highland Park's native-born and earlier-immigrant populations are visibly aging. In 1986 the town had three bridal shops; today it has one. Some of the beauty salons seem to attract mainly an older crowd. The Homestead, a Cheers-like hangout in the Raritan beauty-salon district, took on the same look before its 1992 closing. School enrollments have dropped, particularly since the large Orthodox Jewish families tend to send their children to religious schools. School budgets have become harder to pass because the elderly often vote as a bloc against them.
The economic consequences of Highland Park's graying are beginning to tell. Raritan and Woodbridge have nine empty storefronts, plus a growing number of for-sale signs.
Despite the town's food fixation, it offers only two national franchises, Dunkin' Donuts and Blimpie. The national cholesterol, motel and big-box retail franchises appear in the commercial strips and malls nearby.
Highland Park cannot hope to retrofit Raritan or Woodbridge to compete. Instead renewal will come from using its exploding ethnicity and walkable scale to create new economic niches and mixes that strips and malls cannot match.
The prospects look good. The natural-foods restaurant abuts the Judaica shop. The Thai restaurant moves in among the beauty salons. It is the nation's oldest rite of social passage. In middle-income and suburban settings it usually works.
Highland Park will never become, say, a largely Korean or Russian American town. It has long been too polyglot -- too Jewish, Italian, African and Irish American -- for a monocultural outcome or even a mere multicultural one. Rather, Highland Park, like a lot of the country, is becoming transcultural.
Thus it no longer matters how many ethnicities can dance in the head of a small town. Nor is it so important whose family hit the boats and planes first. In America nothing sounds more hopeful than a foreign accent. No one has more ambition than a young immigrant. In Highland Park a small slice of the real America is getting new toppings.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (74%); CANADA (72%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (72%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: WHITE ROSE PRESS (53%); NEW YORK (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HIGHLAND (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (74%); CANADA (72%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (72%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (88%); WALKING & JOGGING (74%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); GAS STATIONS (68%); BOOKSTORES (67%); BRIDAL SHOPS (67%); IMMIGRATION (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (62%); NEW CAR DEALERS (52%); 

PERSON: POPPER, FRANK J

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



410 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
Whitman in 2000? Not Too Early to Ask

BYLINE: By Jennifer Preston; Jennifer Preston is Trenton bureau chief of The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Governor Whitman spent lots of time in the last two years fielding the question about her Vice Presidential prospects. But the definitive answer, from elsewhere, came just before last week's Republican National Convention, and the answer was Jack Kemp. So predictably, yet not without reason, the political pundits and network correspondents moved on: What about the year 2000? they asked her.
It would be unseemly and not very good politics, of course, for Mrs. Whitman or any of her advisers to suggest that she would give serious consideration to a Presidential bid in four years. After all, Mrs. Whitman has vowed to campaign not only in New Jersey but around the country, for Bob Dole. Yet her close friends believe she will pursue the Republican Presidential nomination in four years, assuming of course, that Mr. Dole fails to defeat President Clinton in November. 
 The Governor took the opportunity last week to build upon her national base and lay some of the groundwork for a possible White House bid. She received plenty of air time, wielding the gavel as the convention's temporary chair and appearing on national radio and television news programs.
She also proved her loyalty to Mr. Dole and the party by not joining the protests of several fellow Republican governors, including George E. Pataki of New York, over abortion and immigration issues. She was noticeably absent from a news conference held by Governors Pete Wilson of California and William Weld of Massachusetts, on the convention floor, objecting to the platform. She did not mention abortion in her prime-time convention address.
Instead, she focused on her success cutting income tax rates, giving Mr. Dole's tax-cut plan some credibility and allowing her to broaden her support among Republicans.
But before she runs for President, Governor Whitman needs to win re-election next year and maintain her high ratings among New Jersey voters in a second term. She also needs to find a solution to the school financing problem that does not antagonize suburban parents and satisfies the New Jersey Supreme Court's concerns about the disparity between rich and poor districts. To maintain her status as a Republican star, she will have to make sure that her administration's fiscal policies don't blow up in her face.
The question then becomes not whether Governor Whitman wants a place on a national ticket, but can she capture the nomination of her own party when her stance on abortion rights alone has made her a lightning rod for criticism among the party's right wing?
One in eight of the convention's delegates described themselves as members of the Christian Coalition or as a Christian political activist. On the Christian Broadcast Network last week, as Pat Robertson talked about the religious right's victory in keeping the anti-abortion plank, a photo of Mrs. Whitman flashed on the screen when he mentioned the plank's opponents. To the religious right, she is an extremist, perhaps as much as the moderate wing views Pat Buchanan as an extremist.
The Republican Party's machinery, critical to the success of candidates in the Presidential primary process, is far more conservative than Mrs. Whitman. Look what happened to Bob Dole in the primaries. He wasn't conservative enough for some Republican primary voters.
And look at the party's platform adopted last week. In addition to the plank on abortion, the document opposes affirmative action and civil rights for homosexuals. Governor Whitman is on record favoring both affirmative action and civil rights for homosexuals. The plank also urges that welfare benefits to be eliminated to legal immigrants, as does the new welfare bill approved by Congress. The Whitman administration is seeking ways to maintain at least some public benefits for legal immigrants in New Jersey.
Many of the delegates who worked to create that platform are the same people who put together phone banks and control the get-out-the-vote efforts in Presidential primaries. Should Mrs. Whitman decide to enter the primaries, she is certain to face an uphill battle. Jack Kemp's selection as Mr. Dole's running mate has also resurrected his political career. If Mr. Dole does not succeed, Mr. Kemp would be more likely to win the party's nod four years from now.
"Four years is a very long time, and Dole may win, in which case, he might want a second term, or Jack Kemp may want to succeed him, and it may turn out that the timing is not right for her in a Presidential race," said Stephen A. Salmore, a Republican political strategist and professor at Rutgers University. "I think that she is interested in higher office, whether it is President, Vice President, or the U.S. Senate."
Former Governor Thomas H. Kean, who delivered the keynote address in 1988 and was similarly touted as a rising Republican star, said he thought Mrs. Whitman's future would stretch beyond New Jersey. "In political terms, she is very young," he said, "and I think that we will hear more on the national scene from Christie Todd Whitman."
For now, Mrs. Whitman will be working hard for Bob Dole, helping him erase President Clinton's commanding lead. No one doubts her loyalty or commitment.
If Mr. Dole succeeds, it will be interesting to see whether it is the conservative or the moderate wing of the party that takes credit. If he loses, Mrs. Whitman's political ambitions may depend on who gets the blame and who will control the Republican party in the future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ABORTION (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (66%); TAX RELIEF (64%); INCOME TAX (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); SUBURBS (64%); RELIGION (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



411 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: YOUNG NEW JERSEY;
4-H Clubs Move Beyond 'Cows and Cooking' Image

BYLINE: By SUSAN JO KELLER 

 BODY:
Eleven-year-old Emily Wunderlich took her heifer, a Polled Hereford named Reba, to the Sussex County fair. They came home 4-H champions. To many people, that image -- a little girl leading a big animal and clutching a prize ribbon -- is what 4-H is all about.
But it's also about the Madagascan hissing cockroaches that Jean Flaherty exhibited in Sussex County this month and the ferrets that will be on display at the Bergen County Fair in September. It's about double Dutch jump rope at the Movers and Shakers Club in Hackensack, whose members have never been to a 4-H fair before in their lives. And it's about literacy and career preparation at the New Beginnings for Kids club at a Hackensack homeless shelter. 
 Talk to 4-H leaders for five minutes -- it may not take that long -- and you're sure to hear, "We're more than cows and cooking." They just wish more people knew it.
"Having the clover as an emblem is a two-edged sword," said Rita Natale, the regional 4-H agent for southern New Jersey. "People recognize it, but they recognize it for what it traditionally means. Like with the Girl Scouts, they think cookies. With the Boy Scouts, they think camping. With 4-H, they think farming."
But even in rural counties, clubs are likely to offer projects involving computers and remote-control cars along with the more traditional cow and craft programs.
"When people ask me what 4-H is, I tell them it's an adult who's interested in sharing something with five or more kids," said Judy Grief, a Bergen County leader. "It can be shoe repair. It can be dinosaurs. It can be oceans. It can be anything you want to do." In her case, it's Ther-Happy Pets, a club for children who want to take pets to visit the residents of nursing homes.
The programs that 4-H offers go beyond project clubs to include camping, public-speaking contests and small businesses like the Dairy Barn refreshment stand run by the Teen Council at the Sussex fair. If young people don't find their way to 4-H, the leaders will try to find their way to the young people, often working in collaboration with other community groups to make everybody's tight budgets stretch further.

Math in Disguise
In Cape May County, 4-H leaders have developed lessons in marine science for the nature center and the public schools. When children use lengths of clothesline to calculate the length of a dolphin or do a "whale blubber" experiment using cooking shortening, they are actually getting a dose of math in disguise.
In Somerset County, 4-H sponsors Careers and County Government Day, in which a child pairs up with an official -- the county engineer, a sheriff's deputy or perhaps a freeholder -- to learn what the job is like. In Newark, 4-H leaders used a Federal grant to set up an after-school program called the Soweto Academy in the Bishop Walsh housing project.
Everywhere 4-H goes, it takes its commitment to hands-on learning. A Rutgers Cooperative Extension statement says the mission of 4-H is to use a "learn by doing" approach to help young people become "competent, caring and contributing citizens of the world."
The roots of 4-H are in corn clubs for boys and canning clubs for girls that were established around the turn of the century to teach young people how to put the latest in science and technology to work on the farm and in the home. The club program became an official part of the Cooperative Extension Service about the time Congress created the agency in 1914; the term 4-H Club first appeared in a Federal document in 1918. By this time, 4-H had an emblem: a clover that had first been used, with only three leaves, by clubs in Iowa. References to three H's, head, heart and hands, first showed up in a statement of purpose for Nebraska clubs. Later the fourth H, health, was added.
But the agrarian society that produced 4-H was fading even at the time 4-H began. Over the years, the organization has shifted its focus from agricultural production to broader programs of youth development. By 1965, when a national 4-H policy committee endorsed expanding the program in urban areas, fewer than half of all 4-H members lived on farms. Today, nationwide, 12 percent of 4-H members live on farms. In New Jersey, the number is 3 percent.
"We haven't stopped serving rural America, but we're trying to serve urban areas, too," said Dr. Richard Clark, chairman of the 4-H Youth Development Department of Cook College at Rutgers University.
His department, which has an annual budget of $3 million provided by Federal, state and local governments, provides guidance for the state 4-H program while promoting flexibility in local projects. A key part of the job is making sure that volunteer leaders receive strong educational material based on research done at Rutgers and other universities.
More than 538,000 adult volunteers are involved in 4-H programs nationwide. In New Jersey, 4,300 adult volunteers supplement the work of the Rutgers extension staff, and more are always needed.
"If we had to rely strictly on professionals, it would not be possible to do what we do," Dr. Clark said.
The changes in 4-H programs have changed what it needs from its volunteers. Technical expertise is less important than a desire to work with young people.
"You don't teach them to raise a good cow," said Betty Jean Jesuncosky, the Cape May County 4-H agent. "You teach them to raise a good kid."

'Sportsmanship Is No. 1'
Keith Jones, the leader of Emily Wunderlich's club, Top O'Jersey Beef, knows that many of his club members will never grow up to be farmers. So, besides the basics of calving and tattooing, he tries to teach them responsibility, self-confidence and other lessons that will be useful no matter what they do. "Sportsmanship is No. 1," he said. "And unselfishness. I tell them no matter what happens, be happy for your peers."
Susan Murray-Flaherty never heard of 4-H when she was growing up in Queens. Then she moved to Sussex County, and her daughter, Jean, developed a passion for insects. Now she's leader of a club called BUGS (Bugs Under Group Study), sharing her home with hissing cockroaches, millipedes and the occasional tobacco hornworm.
Marge Cosh, leader of the another Sussex County club, the Wantage Sewettes, has been involved in 4-H all her life. "I'm 80 years old," she said. "My mother was a leader before me."
Barbara Milton, who is the 4-H program associate for Bergen County, has always thought of 4-H as an urban program. She first learned about it as a social worker in a substance abuse program in Middlesex County. Now, in densely populated Bergen County, she wants 4-H to reach out to "at-risk kids, wherever they are."
The problem, she says, is that the term "at risk" is divisive. "People are polarized by it," she said. "Sometimes it is translated just to mean the inner city. But suburban kids are also at risk."
Her efforts to expand the traditional 4-H base include a club at Hackensack High School to help students prepare for the Scholastic Assessment Test, the Movers and Shakers club at Trinity Baptist Church, where members receive health and cooking classes along with their double Dutch jump rope lessons, and the New Beginnings for Kids club at the homeless shelter.
New Beginnings, whose name was chosen by children at one of the early meetings, presents special challenges for 4-H, not the least of which is what to do in a club whose members might be able to attend only a few meetings before their family moves again. That means short-term projects: discussing endorphins and neurotransmitters in a lesson on how the brain works, making a club banner, learning about jobs involving horses from another 4-H leader.
Ms. Milton and Jeanine DaSilva, the club leader, say the club will succeed if it gives the children two things: a little stability in their schedule, and a glimpse at a range of career opportunities.
Using 4-H this way can save lives, said Ms. Milton, who grew up on welfare in Camden housing projects.
"My mom said it very clear," Ms. Milton said. " 'The way out is school.' I heard it very loud and clear. It's still clear.
"But we didn't know what 4-H was in Camden. A few weeks ago my mom called and said she was driving along and saw this green clover with a 4-H on it. And so she read the sign and ended up at the Camden County 4-H Fair. She had been born and raised there, and she had never been to the fair.
"And she called me, she was so excited about everything she had seen, and she said: 'Now I know what you do. Now I know what 4-H is all about.' "
"That's what I want to do, to take that green clover into communities that have never heard of it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Emily Wunderlich with her heifer, Reba, a prize winner at the Sussex County fair. Movers and Shakers members jumping rope in Hackensack. (Photographs by John Wheeler for The New York Times)
 
Chart/Graphs: "Motto: To make the best better"
 Pledge: I pledge my Head to clearer thinking,
my Heart to greater loyalty,
my Hands to larger service,
and my Health to better living,
for my club, my community,
my country and my world.
 
 4-H Program Participation
 NJ (1994-1995 program year) THE NATION (1994)
 
 Total 66,073 5,600,087
 Boys 31,288 48 percent
 Girls 34,785 52 percent
 
 How 4-H Delivers Its Programs
 IN NJ ///U.S.
 
 ORGANIZED CLUBS 948 serving 16,410 youth//76,355 for 1,393,220 youth
 SPECIAL INTEREST PROGRAMS 376 for 13,464 youth//32,874 for 1,018,984 youth
 SCHOOL ENRICHMENT PROGRAMS 1,065 serving 37,901 youth//65,254 for 3,018,014 youth.
 INDIVIDUAL STUDY PROGRAMS 285 youth//110,976
 INSTRUCTIONAL TV PROGRAMS 0//58,893
 
(Some youth participate in more than one kind of program).
 
 Where 4-H'ers live in NJ
 
 Cities and suburbs 16,469 25 percent
 Small towns and rural areas 47,436 72 percent
 Farms 2,168 3 percent
 
 Racial-Ethnic Backgrounds
 
 White 43,818 66.3 percent
 Black 14,486 22.0 percent
 American Indian/Alaskan Native 132 .20 percent
 Hispanic 5,991 9 percent
 Asian or Pacific Islander 1,646 2.5 percent
 
 Enrollment in 4-H Projects
 NJ Nation
 
 NATURAL RESOURCES 23,501 1,115,012
 ANIMALS AND POULTRY 11,246 1,822,055
 FOOD AND NUTRITION 9,614 893,413
 LEISURE AND CULTURAL EDUCATION 8,684 723,437
 PLANT SCIENCE AND CROPS 8,085 543,288
 HEALTH AND SAFETY 7,103 537,279
 COMMUNICATIONS ARTS AND SCIENCES 5,065 497,096
 CITIZENSHIP, COMMUNITY SERVICE 4,169 635,271
 INTRODUCTORY AND MISCELLANEOUS 4,127 533,293
 INDIVIDUAL AND FAMILY RESOURCES 3,686 809,144
 ECONOMICS, JOBS AND CAREERS 1,878 102,690
 MECHANICAL SCIENCE 1,086 660,433
 ENERGY 392 60,684
 
 (Source: Rutgers Cooperative Extension; National 4-H Council)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: 4-H CLUBS COUNTY FAIR FOODS LTD (85%); NATIONAL 4-H COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL 4-H COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: 4-H CLUBS NATIONAL 4-H COUNCIL (59%); NATIONAL 4-H COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (92%); MARINE MAMMALS (89%); PETS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); MAMMALS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); DAIRY FARMING (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); ADOLESCENTS (68%); OCEANOGRAPHY (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); BOTANY (62%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (60%); HOMELESSNESS (53%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (53%); NURSING HOMES (50%); 

PERSON: KELLER, SUSAN JO

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



412 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: PLAYING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD: EAST HARLEM;
World's Fair as Architectural Prologue

 BODY:
THE Museum of the City of New York will take visitors back to the future with an exhibit titled "Drawing the Future: Design Drawings for the 1939 New York World's Fair," which opens Wednesday. The fair was conceived in 1935 by New York business executives to help alleviate the economic and social strains brought about by the Depression. It provided an optimistic vision of the future and employment for many out-of-work artists and architects, who were instructed to "build the world of tomorrow with the tools of today."
Among the structures whose designs are featured in the exhibit are the Aviation Building, the Hall of Special Events and the Chrysler Motors Building. Proposed, but never constructed, was the Micromegas Building (left), by the Austrian emigre, artist and science fiction writer Frank R. Paul. It would have been crowned by a giant figure dressed as a Roman centurion. 
 "Drawing the Future: Design Drawings for the 1939 New York World's Fair," Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue at 103d Street, Wednesday through Jan. 19; Wednesday through Saturday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M., Sunday, 1 P.M. to 5 P.M.; free, with suggested donation of $5 for adults, $4 for seniors and students and $10 for families; (212) 534-1672.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD'S FAIR OF 1939 (NYC); ART EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); WRITERS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



413 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 5; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Borders Fall To Trade in Classic Autos

BYLINE: By KEITH MARTIN 

 BODY:
COLLECTIBLE cars live in their own economic world. In the late 1980's, when the Japanese yen was strong and the American dollar was weak, buyers flocked from Japan to snap up vintage Ferraris, Maseratis and other exotic autos in the United States. They also filled their garages with huge American-made gas guzzlers from the 60's.
At the same time, a generation of European baby boomers came of age and went shopping in America for the old Jaguar or Austin Healey that their parents had not been able to afford when new. Armed with relatively strong British pounds, Swiss francs and German marks, European buyers sent thousands of European cars back across the Atlantic to their ancestral homes. 
 Why were the European cars here in the first place? In the immediate postwar years, the American economy was the world's strongest by far, and the United States was the most lucrative market for sports cars and high-end luxury makes. Americans bought up to 90 percent of the Ferraris, Jaguars and MG's of that era.
But with the resurgence of a global economy in the 80's, foreign collectors descended on the American collector-car market, buying up sports cars at escalating prices and driving many American collectors out of the market. It was not uncommon to see Ferrari prices double in a year; one model, the Daytona coupe of '68 to '73, went from $25,000 to nearly $500,000 in five years.
As each collectible car was loaded into containers on ships bound for Japan or Europe, American collectors lamented that the cars were gone for good.
That has not been the case. The collapse of the overleveraged Japanese economy has brought high-end cars, along with exclusive golf courses and glittering office towers, back to the market. A flood of cars valued at $100,000 to $5 million has come back from Japan in the last year. These exotics are generally from collections repossessed by banks that had extended too much credit.
But while the Japanese are divesting themselves of top-dollar classics, niche markets have opened. Customized, ground-hugging "low riders" are popular, and savvy American dealers are snapping up custom cars at local meets and doubling their money through sales to enthusiasts in Japan. Another sales bubble has occurred with Alfa Romeo GTV coupes in the $8,000 to $15,000 range and Ferrari 246 GT Dino coupes at $50,000 to $75,000. The Japanese generally prefer closed cars to convertibles.
Collector cars also tend to move toward countries with favorable tax laws. There has been a boomlet recently in sports-car exports to Australia, since that country's tariffs on imported autos -- at least 50 percent -- do not apply to cars more than 25 years old. Consequently, pre-1970 MG's, Austin Healeys, Jaguars and the like sit on the docks of Los Angeles and Houston, bound for Brisbane and Melbourne.
As the global economy improves, both high- and low-dollar cars are likely to keep moving from continent to continent. But the Japanese are conspicuously absent from the high-end market, and they are unlikely to return until their banks have forgiven speculators' excesses of the late 80's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: ALFA ROMEO ESPANA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); CURRENCIES (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (90%); SPORTS CARS (90%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (76%); REPOSSESSION (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); TAX LAW (50%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, KEITH

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



414 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 11; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BROWNSTONE BROOKLYN;
A Funky Renewal Transforms Fifth Avenue

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
Along Fifth Avenue, what was once a strip of empty storefronts, bodegas and Chinese restaurants with bulletproof windows is changing into one of Brooklyn's most eclectic commercial thoroughfares.
Several cafes, a new herb store offering root tonics and a number of antique stores have sprouted along Fifth Avenue, the main artery of the "other" Park Slope, a working-class neighborhood that was once Italian and that is now largely Hispanic. Near St. John's Place, Carmel Roker is doing a brisk business in roti and coco bread. An old funeral parlor on Fifth and President Street is now Mike & Tony's, a steak and cigar parlor. A few blocks south, a gay bar, an organic meat market and a shop specializing in Negro Baseball League memorabilia have opened in the last year. 
 Real estate agents, business people and community leaders say the renewal of Fifth Avenue, particularly between Flatbush and Ninth Street, is in large part due to rents that are much lower than on Seventh and Flatbush nearby.
And several dilapidated buildings have been rehabilitated in the last year with an infusion of public dollars. On the corner of Garfield Place, for instance, an abandoned building that was literally raining bricks has been renovated by the Fifth Avenue Committee, a community group, into apartments for low-income families. Last December, Irene Lore, the owner of Aunt Suzie's restaurant, turned the ground floor of the apartment building into Luna Park, a cafe and ice cream parlor.
To be sure, Fifth Avenue isn't trendy TriBeCa yet, or even the next Seventh Avenue, Park Slope's affluent marketplace two blocks east. But shopkeepers like Ms. Roker, a Haitian immigrant who opened Carmel's Bakery three years ago, are itching to go upscale.
"I'd like Fifth Avenue to be like Seventh Avenue," she said, standing behind a counter laden with coconut cake and sweet-potato pies. "Before, a business would open and close very quickly. Now you see business coming, little bit by little bit."
But Brad Lander, executive director of the Fifth Avenue Committee, is more guarded about the prospect of swift gentrification.
"The mission of the Fifth Avenue Committee is to preserve the racial and economic diversity of lower Park Slope and to insure that all residents benefit from the area's development," he said, "which means to make sure low-income people are not displaced."
In this respect, Fifth Avenue faces a challenge not uncommon in New York City neighborhoods: how to revitalize a somewhat rundown strip without pushing it beyond the reach of the mostly working-class families who live nearby. Mr. Lander's solution is to make sure that residential rents remain affordable.
It was precisely Fifth Avenue's lower rents and decidedly funkier flavor that drew Catherine Blake, a former carpenter, from Windsor Terrace. She and a partner, Christine Marinoni, are sprucing up a storefront on the corner of Sackett Street and Fifth Avenue and turning it into the Rising Cafe. The restaurant, scheduled to open later this month, will serve coffee, snacks, wine, beer and, Ms. Blake hopes, poetry and song.
"I much prefer the atmosphere down here," she said. "There's a funkier feel. It's a little more creative and not as stuffy as Seventh Avenue." SOMINI SENGUPTA

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sa-Kham-Sa, owner of Genesis 1:29, a new herb store on Fifth. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FIFTH AVENUE COMMITTEE (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIFTH AVENUE COMMITTEE (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARK SLOPE (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL RESTAURANTS (92%); RETAILERS (89%); POOR POPULATION (88%); SPICE & HERB STORES (77%); FAMILY (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ICE CREAM (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (72%); ORGANIC FOODS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); BAKERIES (70%); MEATS (69%); BASEBALL (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); CITY LIFE (65%); IMMIGRATION (63%); 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI CARMEL ROKER (67%); PARK SLOPE (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



415 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 58; Column 2; Society Desk

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Dr. Lyubisheva And Mr. Casey

 BODY:
Dr. Lyudmilla Valereyevna Lyubisheva, a daughter of Svetlana and Valery Lyubisheva of Nizhny Novgorod, Russia, was married yesterday to Lukas Casey, a son of Pam Lewis of West Hartford, Conn., and Robert E. Casey of Stonington, Conn. John Raabe, a Connecticut justice of the peace, performed the ceremony at the Lake Waramaug Club in New Preston, Conn.
Dr. Casey, 28, was until recently an eye surgeon at the Nizhny Novgorod Ophthalmological Center. She graduated from the Nizhny Novgorod Medical Institute. Her father, is the former chief of the regional highway patrol in Nizhny Novgorod. Her mother is a chemical researcher at the Nizhny Novgorod Regional Eye Clinic. 
 Mr. Casey, also 28, graduated from Hamilton College. He is to resume his studies for an M.B.A. degree at Vanderbilt University this month. His mother is a freelance writer in West Hartford. His father retired as a senior vice president at the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company in Hartford.
The couple met in Nizhny Novgorod in 1993, when Mr. Casey was working for the International Finance Corporation as part of a privatization team auctioning off businesses and farms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (69%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (55%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (56%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (55%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (87%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); PRIVATIZATION (70%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); POLICE FORCES (69%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: LYUBISHEVA, LYUDMILLA VALEREYEVNA (LYUDMILLA VALEREYEVNA CASEY); CASEY, LUKAS ROBERT E CASEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



416 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 3; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: MAKING IT WORK;
He's a Real Detective. And He Plays One on TV.

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
DURING his 25 years as a New York City police officer and homicide detective, many of them in the East Village, James Pelliccio has seen his share of bloody endings.
"I've probably stood over 1,000 dead bodies in my life," he said last week, sitting in a diner at Second Avenue and Fifth Street as he sucked on yet another cigarette, chased down by yet another cup of black coffee. 
 But as a character actor who often plays street thugs, blowhard cops or mafioso enforcers in films and television shows like "Bullets Over Broadway," "Law and Order" and "Married to the Mob," Mr. Pelliccio, usually ends up with a slug in the back or a knife in the gut. His character rarely makes it to the closing credits. "I must have watched my funeral a half dozen times," he said with a grin. "My mother still cries every time I get iced on film."
With his rough-hewn features, macho swagger and penetrating steel-blue eyes, Mr. Pelliccio, 45, has the kind of face that makes both criminals and casting directors quake. Mr. Pelliccio is "not exactly the boy-next-door type," said his agent, Michael Amato. His boss at the Ninth Precinct, Detective Squad Commander Arthur Monahan, agrees. "Whether you're good or bad, James isn't the kind of guy you want to meet on a street corner late at night," he said.
After a decade playing the wise guy, Mr. Pelliccio, whose stage name is James Reno, is "ready to diversify," as he puts it. Two weeks ago, he landed a role in the Off-Broadway show "Tony 'n' Tina's Wedding." He plays Anthony Nunzio, the groom's blustery father, in the roving audience-participation farce that showcases a tumultuous Italian wedding.
But in a city awash with professional -- though mostly unemployed -- actors, Mr. Pelliccio finds that many directors, casting agents and fellow thespians don't take him seriously. Although he is a member of the Screen Actors Guild, his formal training is minimal and as a result, he says, he is often looked down on by other actors who see him as a moonlighting off-duty cop. "I may not have gone to Julliard," he said, "but I'm still up there like the rest of them pouring my guts out."
In a sense, Mr. Pelliccio has been an actor much of his life. Soon after joining the police force in 1969, he was assigned to a wide variety of undercover operations, playing parts ranging from drug dealers and mafia underlings to wayward street punks. In many instances, his acting skills have kept him out of harm's way. Not once, he said, has his cover been blown by a faulty performance. In one of his more sensational assignments, Mr. Pelliccio was sent to Sing Sing, where, dressed in prison garb, he pretended to be a convicted hit man set for an early release. He said he gained the confidence of an imprisoned crime boss intent on killing two former associates, and his work headed off the bloodshed and helped lead to the capo's conviction.
His first real break in the theatrical world came in 1981, when he stumbled onto the set of "Ragtime," which was being filmed on East 11th Street. He offered himself as a security guard on his own time, but after a few days watching the set, he was hired to play a turn-of-the-century beat cop.
Despite extensive work as an undercover agent, Mr. Pelliccio has found acting on stage nerve-racking. Just before opening in "Tony 'n' Tina's Wedding," he did his best to keep cool but confessed to a case of butterflies. "I've been in gunfights where I was less afraid," he said.
The contradictions of law enforcement and theater are not lost on Mr. Pelliccio, who tosses out Tennessee Williams quotes and waxes philosophical with a wiseguy New Yorkese patter interspersed with expletives. In police work, he says, a good cop keeps his emotions bundled up inside; the opposite is true in theater.
"Acting has helped me get in touch with myself and feel O.K. with who I am," he said. "It's very gratifying."
Mr. Pelliccio, who was born and raised on working-class Staten Island, still lives there, a few minutes from his parents, Italian immigrants whom he describes as "Old World people who get teary-eyed just by hearing the name Joe DiMaggio." Nine years ago, after returning home from the set of "Married to the Mob," Mr. Pelliccio found a note from his wife, telling him she had left home with their two children. They have since divorced and Mr. Pelliccio acknowledges that the long, erratic hours of police work and his disciplinarian style have made family life, at times, difficult. His 16-year-old son, whom he sees on weekends, thinks of him as a Marine sergeant, he says.
"Cops have this fix-it mentality," he said, looking away. "They think they can sweep into a situation like a white knight and make everything fine in a snap."
Even for a self-described tough guy, maintaining two careers isn't easy. Last week, after a long day working on a homicide case, Mr. Pelliccio's exhaustion was apparent. On this night, he sniffled between drags on his cigarette, nursing the remnants of a cold he says he caught from "kissing 40 strangers" during "Tony 'n' Tina's Wedding." Nattily dressed in a charcoal double-breasted suit and brown wingtip shoes, he explained that looking the part of a detective is half his job.
"Mind you, this isn't expensive," he said, tugging at his lapels. "I mean, if someone spits up or dies all over this, you don't want to wear it again. You never get the smell of a D.O.A. out of your threads."
Although he is long past putting in his 20 years and could retire on a full pension like many of his peers, Mr. Pelliccio says he's not ready to turn in his shield. "So much of my identity is tied to being a cop," he said, his hands, as always, gesticulating. "Leaving the department is not as easy as cutting off a boil."
He will, however, retire when he feels secure that he can make it as a full-time actor.
"All I need is the big break," he said, displaying a rare flash of vulnerability. His family is also eager for him to leave the police force. "They're proud when they see me on film or on stage," he said. "But more important, they don't have to worry about me getting killed in a blaze of gunfire."

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Pelliccio, star of stage, screen and stationhouse, with Allison Furman, actress. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "UNSCRIPTED: Shooting From the Hip"
James (Jake) Pelliccio, homicide detective, is also known as James Reno, actor. He had this to say about his two worlds:
 
On Acting: "In police work, it's about people running from the truth. In acting, it's about people seeking the truth."
 
On Police Work: "People have such a contempt for cops. They get blamed for everything that's wrong with society's problems but we're out working lousy hours, giving our lives to the public. Next time you see a cop, give him a hug and say 'I understand.' "
 
Personality Quirk: "I wash my hands before I go to the john because of the filthy people I touch on the job."
 
Favorite Film: " 'On the Waterfront' because every scene stands on its own."
 
Favorite Actor: Frederic Forrest.
 
Most Embarrassing Faux Pas: Tripping over a cable on stage during the taping of "Kate and Allie."
 
How to Spot Me at a Party: "I'm the guy standing in the corner watching people, figuring out what they're about. To me, everyone is a potential client, so you try to get a head start."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; POLICE ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); MOVIE CASTING (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); FILM (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (75%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); THEATER (56%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW; PELLICCIO, JAMES JAMES PELLICCIO (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



417 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 2; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: F.Y.I.

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:

No 4-Footed Fare
 
Q. What is the policy on dogs riding on the subway? A friend of mine said the M.T.A. had told her dogs were welcome as long as their owners paid their fare.
A. It's so touching to hear a public servant laugh. Do dogs pay fares, was the question. You should have heard the snickers.
Dogs ride free, said Termaine Garden, a Transit Authority spokesman, but that doesn't mean they're particularly welcome. The only dogs unequivocally allowed to ride the rails are "working dogs," i.e., seeing-eye dogs or police pups. Transit Authority code stipulates that the only way you can bring an unemployed dog onto the train is in a container (preferably something other than a handbag, Mr. Garden said).
Violators can be ejected from the subway and fined $25. Through the end of July, 261 summoneses had been issued this year for subway dog smuggling -- about one a day.
What about other animals?
"I guess cats would be O.K. if they're contained," Mr. Garden said. "But no snakes or monkeys or anything. No way. Those are wild animals."
 
 
 
In Memoriam, Maybe

 
Q. I've noticed pairs of shoes hanging from New York City telephone wires. I heard a rumor the shoes had something to do with marking drug turf, but I've seen them all over the city. What's the origin or meaning of such a ritual?
A. A very good question. A sampling of several urban anthropologists came up with no definitive answers, but a handful of intriguing theories.
Jeffrey Fagan, director of the Center for Violence Research and Prevention at Columbia University and a longtime student of adolescent street culture, said the tradition probably dated to the late 1970's. His theory is that the shoes over the wires originally acted as a sort of tombstone, marking the site where a gang member or other local youth had died. "It's like a totem pole in Indian mythology," Mr. Fagan said.
His opinion was seconded by Bill Kornblum, professor of sociology at CUNY, who polled his research subjects from city housing projects about the ritual. "Friends would throw their sneakers up there knowing they'd be there forever," said Mr. Kornblum, adding that his sources thought the practice had begun in the early 1980's.
A researcher on Mr. Fagan's team, David Tufino, suggested a different meaning. Mr. Tufino, who grew up in Harlem in the early 80's, said the shoes were trophies and turf markers from gang or neighborhood fights. "They'd beat a guy up and steal his sneakers and throw them up there and have him go home barefooted," he said. "It meant you couldn't come into a neighborhood and leave with your shoes." He added that although the meaning might differ from neighborhood to neighborhood, memorials in Harlem were generally murals, not shoes.
Both Mr. Fagan and Mr. Korn blum cautioned that the shoes didn't necessarily mean a gang was active in an area, and said that the ritual, like many in urban areas, had probably become too widespread to retain any set meaning.
"It may have had a very specific meaning at one point," Mr. Fagan said, "but at some point it diffuses throughout the culture through mimickry or imitation or fashion. It's like the Rhodes Scholar at Oxford who wears baggy pants and unlaced sneakers to school."
 
 
 
Benvenuto

 
Q. On the corner of Broadway and 41st Street, I saw a group of starch-white sailors looking bewildered. Eavesdropping, I heard the mellifluous tones of a foreign tongue -- Italian, I think. Am I correct? Was the Italian Navy in port?
A. Si.
Since Tuesday, the city has been host to the crew of the San Giusto, a 450-foot, 8,000-ton amphibious-warfare and training vessel from Livorno. The ship, on a training tour of the United States, last called at the megaport of Norfolk, Va., and heads to Boston on Tuesday.
The San Giusto, carrying some 500 sailors, is docked next to the Intrepid, at Pier 86 at West 46th St. It is open to the public today until 7 P.M. JESSE McKINLEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; DOGS DOGS (93%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); SMUGGLING (78%); ANIMALS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); TRAINS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); CATS (72%); WILDLIFE (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); ADOLESCENTS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); SOCIOLOGY (68%); MYTHOLOGY (64%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE JEFFREY FAGAN (90%); DAVID TUFINO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



418 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
Retirement Plan for Small Business Would Help the Boss, Too

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
AT the Auto World repair shop near here, a co-owner, Charles Sullivan, is constantly clipping how-to articles to help train his mechanics.
But most of the reports have nothing to do with fixing cars. They are about retirement, and they represent "a lot of ground-level work to educate them" on the need to save for it, he said. 
 In cajoling young mechanics to take the long view and invest in the company's 401(k) plan, Mr. Sullivan, who is 40, has been doing exactly what many lawmakers have long hoped that business owners would do. And Mr. Sullivan said a proposed law to create a simpler retirement plan would help his six workers save more and also enable him to set aside a lot more money.
But while the plan, which was approved by Congress this month, would probably achieve what lawmakers had hoped, increasing the number of retirement plans offered by small businesses, critics said the proposal would benefit business owners more than their employees.
That is because, unlike other pension and savings plans, the new program would not limit the amounts that owners could save for retirement based on how much their employees contributed into a plan. Critics of the bill fear that without the economic incentive, there will be no more Charles Sullivans, urging their employees to contribute, and that in the silence, workers will save less instead of more.
 Congress approved the new plan -- called the Savings Incentive Match Plan for Employees, or Simple -- on Aug. 2 as part of the bill that would increase the minimum wage. The plan was backed by the National Federation of Independent Business, the main lobby for small business, and some lawmakers said it was approved partly as a trade-off to win support from the group for the wage increase.
President Clinton is expected to sign the bill this month, and companies could start the savings plans in January.
THE new accounts would work, in one sense, like mini-401(k) plans, with employers matching the tax-deferred contributions made by their workers. Only businesses with 100 or fewer workers would be eligible.
The law would require companies, in most cases, to match dollar for dollar any amounts that employees donated, up to 3 percent of their salaries, with a cap of $6,000 a year. That would be fairly generous compared with most 401(k) plans, which typically match 50 cents to the dollar.
The questions about the possible impact of the changes are important because more than 50 million Americans work for companies with fewer than 100 employees, and only about one-eighth of those employers offer retirement plans, Labor Department figures show. About 24 percent of companies with 50 to 100 employees offer 401(k) plans, compared with 96 percent of companies with more than 5,000 employees, according to Access Research Inc. of Windsor, Conn.
Many workers at small companies are in relatively low-paid service jobs and find it difficult to save, and they have become more vulnerable in recent years as many cost-conscious employers have become less willing to provide fixed benefits for retirement.
The new type of accounts "will increase the number of companies with savings plans, without question," said Karen Ferguson, the director of the Pension Rights Center, a worker advocacy group in Washington.
"But the reality is that low-paid workers are still not going to be able to afford to save," she said. "Simple is simply an effort to strip the protections for workers so that their bosses can save more."
Indeed, in an effort to encourage business owners to adopt the new plans, lawmakers dropped an intricate series of fairness tests common to other types of retirement plans that limit how much managers can contribute into their accounts. The aim of the tests is to insure that plans are not "top heavy," created mainly to enrich the officers of a company. So the rules tied the amount that owners and managers could set aside to the level of participation by lower-paid workers. These rules, which made setting up savings plans complicated and expensive, often discouraged small businesses from offering any plan.
Now that small businesses will be able to set up plans without the limitations or extensive paperwork of the fairness rules, business owners will be able to put away up to $6,000 a year whether or not their employees save anything.
Joseph Blumenthal, who owns Downtown Sounds, a musical instrument retailer in Northampton, Mass., said the new rules would allow him to increase his tax-deferred retirement savings.
Each year, he has put $2,000 into an individual retirement account, his only tax-deferred savings vehicle. But if he had started a 401(k) or a traditional pension for himself and his four full-time workers, he would have lost the right to deduct the I.R.A. contributions from his taxes, because they can be written off only by people who are not covered by other plans.
Mr. Blumenthal also said that few of his employees, who make $18,000 to $22,000 a year, had shown any interest in saving for retirement. And if he had started a traditional plan and hardly anyone else had participated, his contribution into his own plan would have been minimal because of the fairness tests.
So, he said, Simple might be "a win-win plan" for his store because his workers would get a retirement program and he would be able to increase his own savings.
Mr. Sullivan, the co-owner of Auto World, said he would also increase his retirement savings to the maximum $6,000, up from the $4,200 he now contributes, an amount limited by the fairness tests.
Mr. Sullivan, who is married and has three young children, said he had read hundreds of the articles he clipped about the need to amass huge savings for retirement. He earns $57,000 a year, and he said he shouldn't be denied a chance to tap into more of the power of tax-deferred savings just because he owns part of the company.
He said that switching to the Simple plan, which requires little paperwork, from a 401(k) would save his company at least $800 a year in administrative costs.
As a result of his exhortations to his workers, three of his employees have set aside 3 to 5 percent of their pay in the 401(k). But one of Mr. Sullivan's employees, Wayne Peron, who is 33, said he was still contributing just 1 percent of his salary.
"I'd like to put more," said Mr. Peron, who is married, owns a house and has a 3-year-old daughter. "But right now I'm trying to figure out how to make ends meet with the mortgage and everything else." He said that once he paid off an auto loan next year, he would likely increase his contributions if Auto World switched to the new program, because of the higher company match.
MS. FERGUSON, of the Pension Rights Center, said that if most workers are required to save as a condition of getting contributions from their employers, many workers will never build much of a nest egg. And society could face huge costs in providing for them later.
But Jon Garvey, an Auto World mechanic who sets aside 5 percent of his salary, said the new plan would be better than nothing. He said that most small businesses were "running their operating expenses out to the penny" and that the plan might be the only type that many businesses could afford to offer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Sullivan, right, a shop co-owner, says a new savings plan may help him and workers like Jon Garvey, left, and Wayne Peron. (Maya Alleruzzo for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "The Bigger the Better"
The more employees a company has, the more likely it is to have a 401(k) plan. Here are the percentage of companies with plans, by number of employees. (Source: Access Research Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; SMALL BUSINESS PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); US 401K PLANS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); APPROVALS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); LOBBYING (75%); MINIMUM WAGE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); CURRENCIES (67%); 

PERSON: DREW, CHRISTOPHER BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



419 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:

TODAY
 The Reform Party announces whether Ross Perot or Richard D. Lamm will be its nominee for President.

MONDAY
 Harnischfeger Industries, a maker of power cranes and other heavy machinery, is expected to report earnings for the latest quarter.

 Jim Guy Tucker, former Governor of Arkansas, and James McDougal, a former business partner of President Clinton, are to be sentenced for their convictions on Whitewater charges.

TUESDAY
 The Commerce Department will report the merchandise trade account for June. May's deficit was $10.8 billion, but it is expected to narrow for June, to about $9.3 billion. Exports likely grew faster while imports slowed.

 The Federal Reserve Open Market Committee meets to discuss interest-rate policy, but few analysts expect the committee to make any changes.

 Dayton Hudson, Ann Taylor, Limited and other big retailers are expected to report earnings.

WEDNESDAY
 The Treasury will report the Federal budget deficit for July. It is expected to be wider than the $13.6 billion deficit in July 1995 because of special factors, but is still on track to end the year substantially smaller than last year.

THURSDAY
 The Labor Department releases its report on initial claims for state unemployment benefits for the latest week.

FRIDAY
 The Commerce Department reports on new orders for durable goods for July. A decline of five-tenths of a percentage point is expected, after June's decline of six-tenths of a point. The June decline was concentrated in the aircraft sector.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: JOY (NYSE) (58%); TGT (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3554 PAPER INDUSTRIES MACHINERY (58%); SIC3532 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, EXCEPT OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (58%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JOY GLOBAL INC (58%); TARGET CORP (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); SENTENCING (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION MFG (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); NEW ORDERS (72%); GOVERNORS (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); INTEREST RATES (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



420 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking 'Harm Reduction' for Glasgow Addicts

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM 

DATELINE: GLASGOW

 BODY:
Every day dozens of heroin addicts come into the office of Alex Meikle, a sociologist who has worked for six years in Possil, a low-income Glasgow neighborhood, which he calls "the heroin shooting gallery of the world."
They seek methadone treatment to get off heroin and help with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, or hepatitis C infections. And they tell heartbreaking stories of addictions that began when they were as young as 11, living in families where brothers, sisters and sometimes parents took drugs. 
 "We offer them a chance of sorts," said Mr. Meikle, an intense 36-year-old. "Those who show up are at the end of their line: Their immune system is gone. Their veins are collapsing. They can't shoplift, steal or deal drugs anymore, and they are wondering how did they get there."
Drug addiction in Scotland had been a problem for at least three decades, surfacing in a big way in the late 1970's and the 80's when heavy industries like shipbuilding and manufacturing collapsed, leaving legions of unemployed, including nearly 40 percent of the residents of the Possil projects.
Glasgow, a city of 650,000, recognized the dimension of the problem and took it on with a broad approach called "harm reduction." Drug addicts were given clean needles and the heroin-substitute drug methadone. The goal was to prevent the spread of AIDS from shared needles, and to reduce the drug dealing, shoplifting and mugging that addicts engaged in to support their habits.
But now the problem is back, fueled by a younger generation of drug addicts, and questions are being raised by many people, including former addicts, who assert that harm reduction has become another way of perpetuating addiction.
"Harm reduction really sounds good, but it doesn't work," said Kerry Condron, 18, who became addicted at age 11, smoking marijuana before moving on to heroin. She took methadone legally until she decided to stop it all a year ago.
"It simply adds to the resources keeping people on drugs," said Lorraine Fraser, 29, a former heroin addict who belongs to the Calton Athletic Group, an organization that advocates total abstinence.
Scotland's drug problem, one of the most serious in Europe, has received particular attention this year as a new movie, "Trainspotting," became a hit, first in Britain and then in the United States.
While places like Scotland, the Netherlands and Switzerland have chosen approaches that allow access to drugs by addicts, some in Europe now argue that those policies have failed.
Besides, many new addicts now shun methadone in favor of heroin cocktails, mixing heroin with temazepam, a tranquilizer in the same family as Valium. A result has been a significant increase in drug overdose deaths.
"Last year, 104 died of overdoses," Kevin Orr, a police superintendent and 31-year-veteran detective who is drug coordinator for Glasgow, said in an interview at the Strathclyde police headquarters downtown. "This is a big number. No other city in the United Kingdom compares with us. We have become notorious."
In a study conducted three years ago by drug counseling agencies, researchers found that Glasgow had 8,500 hard-core "drug injectors." Seventy percent were infected with hepatitis C, which can lead to long-term liver damage. The city says there may be another 24,000 who have a "lesser" heroin-shooting habit. Marijuana, hashish, cocaine and LSD are also common.
In New York City, with a population of seven million, Dr. Blanche Frank, an epidemiologist with the New York State Division of Substance Abuse Services, estimates that there are 200,000 "narcotic abusers," perhaps half of whom use heroin.
"Heroin is the queen of drugs in Glasgow," said Dr. Laurence Gruer, 43, who heads the H.I.V. and Addictions Resource Center at the Greater Glasgow Health Board. "It's part of the drug culture in Scotland that shooting heroin is the most effective way of getting the highest buzz," he said in his office at Ruchill Hospital.
In the last four to five years, there has been a large increase in the number of drug users who contract infectious diseases like hepatitis C and B, AIDS or other medical problems like clots in their veins, legs and arms, and weakened heart muscles.
Law enforcement authorities have focused on tackling the drug supply problems at the source. Police action has expanded overseas. A senior drug enforcement intelligence official here said Glasgow's police were now working with intelligence agencies from mainland Europe and Latin America.
Last year Glasgow mounted a large anti-drug operation, resulting in the arrest of 6,000 dealers and users, two-thirds of whom were unemployed. Drugs with a street value of $8 million were confiscated. But many here say efforts like that one are sabotaged by the city's own approach to the drug problem, which involves confiscating illegal drugs and dispensing legal ones instead.
Maxie Richards, an Irish former schoolteacher who has turned her home into an addict reception center, argues that harm reduction has become a vested interest of the social service industry, and with only one purpose: keeping social peace at the cost of dispensing drugs. The condition for entry at her center is willingness to quit "cold turkey."
Sitting in her modest, one-story home in the upper-middle-class neighborhood of Bearsden, surrounded by eight addicts, half of whom have stopped using drugs (the others are in treatment on methadone), Ms. Richards and her supporters are uncompromising.
"Social workers have too much power as it is," she said. "Methadone gives doctors much more power either by dispensing it or threatening to withhold it. The whole harm reduction approach is our downfall if we stuck with it. It's like saying, If you have to take drugs we can live with it."
Ann Dott, 31, an unemployed former addict, said, "I had to learn how to ask for a different kind of help, because those who handled me -- the doctors, the social agencies -- were telling me I was a hopeless case, and I believed it."
She glanced at her 11-year-old nephew across the room and said: "I want him to know all that. I want him to see and hear, because the drug situation here is so big it cannot be tackled by harm reduction. I mean I can walk into every single pub in Glasgow and find the drug dealer."
In fact, Ms. Dott says, she has to look no farther than her own family, where her two brothers, her sister and her mother are all addicts.
"What I would like to do is get some of this money being spent and put it in a total abstinence program," she said.
Detective Orr agrees that the problem is huge but argues that harm reduction is an effective approach because no matter how big the effort to ban drugs is going to be, it will never totally eradicate drugs as long as people seek them.
"It was against the ethos of the police to carry clean needles or support methadone," he said. "We come from a political culture that believes in kicking doors. But the driving force here is the amount of death."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maxie Richards, far left, has turned her Glasgow home into a reception center for addicts willing to quit drugs. On the sofa, from left, are Janice Wilson, Susan Murray and William Blair. (Lindsay Robertson for The New York Times)
 
Map of Scotland highlighting Glasgow

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (94%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (75%); LATIN AMERICA (70%); 

CITY: GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: GREATER GLASGOW HEALTH BOARD (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREATER GLASGOW HEALTH BOARD (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GLASGOW (SCOTLAND); SCOTLAND; GREAT BRITAIN; EUROPE; LATIN AMERICA; SCOTLAND (94%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (75%); LATIN AMERICA (70%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; HYPODERMIC NEEDLES AND SYRINGES; HEROIN; METHADONE HEROIN (94%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (93%); AIDS & HIV (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); FAMILY (78%); VACCINES (77%); ROBBERY (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (73%); HEPATITIS (72%); HEPATITIS C (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); SHOPLIFTING (70%); CANNABIS (64%); SHIPBUILDING (52%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M ALEX MEIKLE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



421 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE DEMOCRAT;
Clinton Says Dole Tax Cut Could Inflate Deficit Woes

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: JACKSON, Wyo., Aug. 17

 BODY:
President Clinton swung back hard today at Bob Dole's proposed 15 percent income tax cut, arguing that the Republican proposal would either balloon the deficit or force deep cuts in programs like Medicare and that his own proposed tax breaks were better and more affordable.
"The American people have a clear choice in this election," Mr. Clinton said in his weekly radio address. "We agree on one thing: Americans do deserve a tax cut. But we must choose between a tax cut that responsibly balances the budget and one that puts our economy at risk, between one that is targeted to help working families pay for education, health care and other pressing needs, and one that is indiscriminate." 
 The President never mentioned Mr. Dole by name, and he referred to the Republicans only as "our opponents." But with Mr. Dole's proposal drawing support in public opinion surveys, Mr. Clinton's meaning and motive were clear enough: He has no intention of letting Mr. Dole one-up him in the tax-cutting debate, but also no intention of joining the Republicans in proposing large, across-the-board reductions now.
Although he insisted that he did not watch any of the Republican National Convention on television this week, Mr. Clinton obviously absorbed enough of its themes and potential appeal to feel compelled to recite once more his own proposals for a $500 per child tax credit for middle-class families, new tax credits and deductions to help finance the cost of college education and an increase in the earned income tax credit for the poorest working families.
The White House issued worksheets showing how such proposals could provide tax cuts of up to $2,000 a year for a family of four, depending on which combinations were used.
"My tax cut is limited in size," Mr. Clinton said. "It's worth $110 billion. Theirs is five times as much: $550 billion. We can afford ours. We can't afford theirs."
He added: "My tax cut is paid for with specific, tough budget cuts consistent with the balanced-budget plan. Our opponents haven't said how they'll pay for their tax cut yet."
In fact, Mr. Dole has suggested his proposed tax cut could be paid for through largely unspecified spending cuts -- that he says would not affect Medicare -- and through the economic growth that he says the tax cuts would help generate.
But Mr. Clinton argued the Dole proposal would end up either "bringing back those bad, old days of out-of-control deficits," or harm programs for the elderly, education and the environment.
In the Republican radio response, The Associated Press quoted Representative J. C. Watts of Oklahoma as saying the Dole plan puts its faith in Americans. "We think you know how best to use your money, rather than the Government," Mr. Watts said.
On vacation here in the Tetons this week, Mr. Clinton has affected a diligent lack of interest in the Republican proceedings, and ignored their contentions that he had presided over the nation's largest-ever tax increase. But he clearly cares about almost every nuance of them -- enough that his former pollster, Stanley Greenberg, who now works for the Democratic National Committee, and his sometime adviser James Carville, monitored a sample group of voters' reactions to Mr. Dole's acceptance speech as he was delivering it.
By highlighting his own proposals in the radio speech today, Mr. Clinton all but guaranteed timely news coverage of carefully calibrated White House responses to the Republican plan, without exposing himself to too many questions about his own proposals, or their chance for adoption by a Republican Congress hostile to him.
All year, under the guidance of his political adviser, Dick Morris, Mr. Clinton has made increasing use of the weekly radio address for just such attention-getting purposes. And the radio speeches have often been written with an eye toward projecting the President as being above the partisan fray.
For example, he ended his speech today by saying, "I look forward to discussing these plans before the American people in the coming months," and adding: "That kind of debate can only be good for our country."
Mr. Clinton wound down his eight-day stay here in Jackson with a sort of farewell dinner in his honor on Friday night at the Snake River Grill, a local hotspot partly owned by James D. Wolfensohn, president of the World Bank. The host was Roger C. Altman, the former Deputy Treasury Secretary, and guests included the actor Harrison Ford, Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia and Felix G. Rohatyn, the New York investment banker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); MEDICARE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); MEDICARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



422 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE FOURTH PARTY;
Green Party to Nominate Nader for President

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 17

 BODY:
The Green Party is in the midst of its first Presidential convention, a low-budget event that will nominate Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate.
"We're not trying to make it the best TV show on earth," like the $30 million Republican convention just concluded in San Diego or the coming Democratic National Convention in Chicago, said Doug Heller, media coordinator for the four-day "Green Gathering '96." The convention opened on Thursday. 
 The convention is being produced for less than $25,000, and it will not feature any of the hoopla that could hurt the environment.
"We don't want balloons, the plastic, the horror," Mr. Heller said. Still, he promised "an upbeat experience."
The convention's 350 delegate-activists can attend seminars like "Green Alternatives in a Consumer Society" and "Eco-Feminism," in lecture halls and laboratories on the campus of the University of California at Los Angeles. The nominating session is to be held on Monday.
Mr. Nader, 62, a reluctant standard-bearer, is this year's un-candidate.
Unlike major party candidates, the consumer advocate will not run television advertisements, take contributions or spend more than $5,000 of his own money, although supporters are spending heavily on statewide petition drives. Mr. Nader is depending on free news coverage to spread his message.
"Every four years, the choice between the bad and the worst gets worse," Mr. Nader said.
He does not even plan to run on the full party platform, said Mike Feinstein, conference coordinator and a Green candidate for the Santa Monica City Council.
"Rather than run on our entire platform with 150 issues and allow his message to be sidetracked, he is running on this core set of issues," Mr. Feinstein said.
The Green Party began organizing in 1984 and now boasts 29 elected officials in 10 states. Mr. Nader's name is already on a dozen state ballots, and party members hope to increase that to 30 and get him into the Presidential debates.
The party has moved beyond environmentalism to seek social justice, grass-roots democracy, nonviolence and an economy based on environmentally benign materials and processes and a share of ownership and control for workers and communities.
The environmentalist David Brower, the keynote speaker on the convention's opening day, said he was backing Mr. Nader, a longtime friend who "has never let me or the environment down."
Nobody expects Mr. Nader to be elected President, but polls indicate he has the potential to pull votes away from President Clinton.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GREEN PARTY (US) DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN PARTY (US) UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); FINANCES CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); US GREEN PARTY (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); PETITIONS (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (53%); CITIES (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: NADER, RALPH RALPH NADER (92%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



423 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Judge Says Benefits Must Cover Partners of Gay State Employees

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Aug. 17

 BODY:
For the first time in the United States, a judge has required a public agency to extend to homosexual couples the medical, life and dental insurance benefits that married couples often have.
Judge Stephen L. Gallagher of Multnomah County Circuit Court ruled on Aug. 8 that Oregon Health Sciences University here discriminated against three gay employees by denying benefits to their domestic partners. Judge Gallagher said Oregon had to provide insurance to the partners of all gay state workers who sought coverage. "Constitutional law may mandate, like it or not, that customs change with an evolving social order," the judge wrote. 
 The decision could be stayed if the state appeals before Sept. 9. A spokesman for the State Attorney General's Office, Peter Cogswell, said the state would decide on an appeal by "the end of next week or the first part of the following week."
The ruling would not make Oregon the first jurisdiction to extend benefits to gay couples. The State of Vermont and about 50 county and city governments, including Boston, San Francisco, Seattle and Portland, do so. But all those jurisdictions offer the benefits voluntarily or because legislation forces them to.
The Oregon decision is significant, said Beatrice Dohrn, legal director of the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, a national gay legal group based in New York, because it sets a precedent.
"Finally a judge has looked past the double bind," Ms. Dohrn said. "Until now we've just heard, 'You can only get married if you're heterosexual, and you can only get benefits if you're married.' "
Christine Tanner, a professor of nursing at the university, filed the suit, along with another nursing professor and a university pharmacist, in 1992. Ms. Tanner sought to get insurance for her partner, Lisa Chickandonz. "It was a long, slow process," Ms. Tanner said in an interview after the ruling, "and now we've attained fairness and equality under the law."
"For me, it was more practical than that," said Ms. Chickandonz, a midwife who is insured through her employer. "I was concerned. What if I became disabled and had no access to health insurance?"
Some conservative groups have denounced the rule. The chairman of the state chapter of the Christian Coalition, Jim Adkisson, said: "What's to say now that the courts can't do the same for someone who's married to two or three people? As an employer, I'm worried about the cost impacts."
Dan Kennedy, administrator of the State Human Resources Division, said the economic effects would be slight. "Other jurisdictions have extended their benefits," Mr. Kennedy said, "and it's had a very minor effect." He said his office had received no inquiries from state employees about coverage for partners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OREGON HEALTH SCIENCES UNIVERSITY LAMBDA LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OREGON HEALTH SCIENCES UNIVERSITY LAMBDA LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON; UNITED STATES (95%); OREGON, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; HOMOSEXUALITY; FRINGE BENEFITS; DISCRIMINATION GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); COHABITATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); DENTAL INSURANCE (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); JURISDICTION (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPEALS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (70%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); CITIES (52%); CITY GOVERNMENT (52%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (51%); MIDWIVES (50%); 

PERSON: GALLAGHER, STEPHEN (JUDGE) CHRISTINE TANNER (82%); DAN KENNEDY (64%); LISA CHICKANDONZ (64%); BEATRICE DOHRN (64%); STEPHEN L GALLAGHER (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



424 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: 'Wealthiest? Who, Us?' L.I. Villagers Exclaim

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

DATELINE: HEWLETT BAY PARK, L.I.

 BODY:
When Worth magazine published a list of the 300 richest towns in America this summer, people in this tiny enclave on Long Island's South Shore were surprised and a little dismayed to learn they finished second.
It was not, people here said, that they wanted to edge out Rolling Hills, Calif., a Los Angeles suburb, to be number one. Rather, they wished the list had never been published. 
 "This isn't Beverly Hills," said Stephanie Kaufman. "It is really a quiet community. It's not the kind of place that wants national attention."
Reactions were similar in neighboring Hewlett Harbor, which finished third. "Oh boy, I never realized I lived in that wealthy a community," said Harold I. Leviton, the chief executive officer of the Leviton Manufacturing Company and a resident of Hewlett Harbor for 50 years.
Another Hewlett Harbor resident, Richard A. Sloss, remarked of the publicity: "This is not the kind of thing I would like to see for any wealthy community, and I think most of my neighbors would agree. But I assure you I don't lose any sleep over it."
Mr. Sloss and others said they were astonished that the two areas, both incorporated villages since the 1920's, ranked so high. "You read about certain communities throughout the country and you get the impression they are much wealthier," he said. "Even on Long Island, I would expect places like Sands Point would lead the pack."
The magazine said it used 1990 census figures updated by economic and demographic trends to determine rankings based on average household incomes and housing values. Summer communities and neighborhoods within cities were not included. Many of the towns on the list are actually small incorporated villages.
Jeff Blyskal, a contributing editor to Worth who spent more than three months researching the article, said the two Hewletts were not the only places that questioned their high ratings.
"Wealth is in some respects a state of mind, and many people who are wealthy don't consider themselves wealthy," he said. "What we're talking about here is the disparity between people's perceptions and cold, hard numbers."
According to the ratings, Hewlett Bay Park, population 487, had an average household income of $348,500 and an average home value of $570,600. In Hewlett Harbor, population 1,270, average household income was $306,600 and average home value $572,700.
The top New Jersey finisher, Saddle River (4), and every other exclusive place in New Jersey, Connecticut and Westchester County lagged behind. In California, Beverly Hills (83) trailed Malibu (74). Palm Beach, Fla., was 85th, its wealth -- an average income of $148,700 -- diluted by its population, 9,894.
The highest Connecticut entry, New Canaan, with average household income of $173,000 -- too low to be offset by an average home value of $499,400 -- finished 63d. Darien (77), Weston (81), Greenwich (87) and Westport (124) followed. In Westchester, Scarsdale (30) finished highest.
It came as no surprise to people who know Long Island that village after village on Nassau County's North Shore ranked in the top 40. Few ever doubted, after all, that places like Kings Point (5), Oyster Bay Cove (9), Laurel Hollow (11), Muttontown (12), Old Westbury (13) and Sands Point (14) were wealthy places.
The shocker was that the South Shore produced not one but two of the top three finishers.
"That can't be right," said Leonard Wurzel, the Mayor of Sands Point, a village rich in estates and multimillion-dollar houses. "Nothing over there compares with Sands Point."
Even some real-estate agents familiar with Hewlett Bay Park and Hewlett Harbor were taken aback.
"We knew they were wealthy areas, but we didn't think they were tops in the country," said Susan Pugatch of Pugatch Realty Corporation in Woodmere. "Everyone in the office questioned it."
Another agent, Dolores Stern, said: "These are very nice, stable communities, but there's no flash, no glitz and no glory houses here. Where do they get these numbers? Either they're off or I'm dealing with much wealthier people than I know."
The two villages are gemstones of the Five Towns, an affluent area in Nassau's southwest corner not far from Kennedy International Airport.
Both are exclusively residential and have been prosperous since their beginnings nearly 70 years ago. "They were originally the Hamptons of New York City," said Morton M. Haves of Hewlett Harbor, a real estate agent. "It's the zoning that kept this area up."
The villages, which face each other across Macy Channel, are packed tight with a mix of Colonial, Tudor, ranch and modern houses ranging in size and design from the sturdy to the mildly stupendous.
Mercedes cars are as common here as Fords are in other neighborhoods. Residents tend to be lawyers, doctors, Wall Street financiers, business owners and professionals. Many work in Manhattan.
"Nobody comes in here and tells me their income, but I was a bit surprised that out of the entire country we were up that high," said Gerald H. Morganstern, the Mayor of Hewlett Harbor and a real estate lawyer in Manhattan. "We have a lovely community but it ranges from a quarter acre to one-acre zoning. The same houses would be worth a lot less 30 miles further out on Long Island, until you reach the Hamptons."
Two other villages in the Five Towns area, Hewlett Neck (17) and Woodsburgh (37), finished in the top 40.
Hewlett Bay Park's Mayor, Mitchell E. Sahn, said he found it objectionable to view his village in terms of wealth.
"At best it relies on stereotypes, and stereotypes reinforce the divisions so many of us are trying to overcome," Mr. Sahn said. There were, he said, "no mountains and rivers" separating the village from surrounding areas.
"Most of us would prefer to be mentioned for the expertise and the can-do nature of the people who live here," said Mr. Sahn, the managing partner of a fund that invests in Latin American securities. "Hey, talk about our high turnout at the last village election. Talk about us being one of the first villages on Long Island to go on the Internet."
Mr. Sahn said that during a blizzard in January he and a group of villagers "attempted to call very resident widowed or alone to make sure they had somebody's number with a four-wheel drive vehicle."
"If caring makes us rich, then we are very rich," he said.

GRAPHIC: Map of Long Island showing the location of Hewlett Bay Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3643 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WORTH (MAGAZINE) LEVITON MANUFACTURING CO INC (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORTH (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: HEWLETT BAY PARK (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (86%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (86%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); TRENDS (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); CENSUS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); EXECUTIVES (54%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN; SAHN, MITCHELL E (MAYOR) SANDS POINT (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



425 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Monterrey Is Feeling Like a Big-Leaguer

BYLINE: By CLAIRE SMITH 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico, Aug. 17

 BODY:
Joe McIlvaine, the general manager of the Mets, sat in Monterrey Stadium, chatting up fans in fluent Spanish and drinking in the scene of major league baseball, Mexican-style.
On Friday night, for the first time, a regular-season major league game was being played in a country other than the United States and Canada. And Monterrey, the proud host of a three-game weekend series between the San Diego Padres and the Mets, was putting on a show. 
 Thus, the mariachi band playing atop the third-base dugout. Thus, the endless stream of clowns dancing up and down the aisles, and the green, red and white Mexican flags waving in the bleachers.
A genuine surge of energy and enthusiasm and chants of "Toro! Toro! Toro!" rolled through the crowd of 23,699 not because of the presence of a matador but because of Fernando Valenzuela, the starting pitcher for the Padres and arguably the most popular son of Mexico ever to play in the major leagues.
"Man, I love baseball in Latin America," said McIlvaine, a veteran of many a foray into winter leagues across Central America and the Caribbean rim.
Suddenly all of major league baseball feels the same way, enamored of and intrigued with everything Hispanic, especially Mexico.
This nation, steeped in Spanish and Indian culture and associated more often with soccer, is suddenly viewed as a potential baseball gold mine, one filled with millions of untapped ticket and memorabilia buyers and, even more enticing, potential homes for the ever increasing number of expansion teams baseball hopes to field come the new millennium. Still, Len Coleman, the president of the National League, took pains to caution that Major League Baseball has not set a round of expansion after Phoenix and Tampa/St. Petersburg enter the majors in 1998. Nor would he call this series a make-or-break test for Monterrey or Mexico. Yet, said Coleman, "Mexico is not only on our minds but in our hearts. We love the enthusiasm and we relish the opportunity to explore the possibilities."
And, said McIlvaine, sizing up Latin America as a whole: "If I had to handicap the potential cities right now, I'd have to say Monterrey because there's already talk about it. You just don't hear anything like that about Venezuela, the Dominican Republic or Puerto Rico."
Indeed, John Harrington of the Boston Red Sox, the chairman of the owners' expansion committee, put together an A list this spring and, ahead of a host of American and Canadian cities, put both Mexico City -- the capital, with 12 million people -- and Monterrey, Mexico's third-largest city with 3.2 million people.
The interest in Latin America in general and Monterrey specifically stems from a surge of restlessness and stagnation felt throughout the majors, thanks to decades of labor strife and increasing disenchantment with the game in the United States and Canada. For those reasons, growing the game tops the lists not only of owners but also players and a union that has traditionally supported expansion.
Certainly the growth could be done by increasing marketing within the contiguous 48 states and Canada. But, said the Padres veteran Tony Gwynn, "It is in the best interests of baseball to grow internationally."
Gwynn, a former union representative who urged Players Association officials to support the sojourn here, added: "Baseball's in prime position now to move forward and start doing some of the things we really should have done five years ago. They could take this game to another level and become a better game."
Just as other professional sports did, seemingly ages ago, compared with baseball. "You know how baseball is," Gwynn laughed. "We're always like the last ones to do things."
Now, though, the sport that prides itself on playing without a clock seems to hear one ticking. And the sense that time is running out has prompted the sudden extension of welcoming hands across the border.
So it is that the Padres, eyeing markets to their south, set out to do more than just offer ticket packages and bus services to fans from Tijuana and Baja California. Republican convention or not, the Padres jumped at the opportunity to spread their fan base to Mexico.
Not surprisingly, the Padres already have company. "We're definitely interested in doing something like this," said Roland Hemond, the senior executive vice president of baseball operations and, in a sense, an advance scout here for the Arizona Diamondbacks, a team not set to play until 1998. "No one's any closer than us."
Actually, Monterrey, located 143 miles from the border town of Laredo, Tex., is closer to Houston's Astros than the Diamondbacks. "I would guess the Padres, Astros and ourselves would probably be the three candidates in terms of interest," said Blake Edwards, the Diamondbacks' head of sales and marketing. "But I don't think anyone necessarily has to claim it. It's big enough to go around."
Don't blame Mexican officials for feeling territorial, too, as they think of more than just growing the fan bases of existing major league teams. "Tonight proved that Monterrey has the capacity, that Monterrey has the communications systems, that it has good hotels and good facilities to be in the major leagues," declared Pepe Maiz, the owner of the Mexican summer league champion Monterrey Sultanes.
Maiz is pairing with Juan Manuel Ley, the owner of the winter league champion Culiacan club, in seeking an expansion team. It will not be a first time for Maiz, who filed an expansion application in 1995, when the Diamondbacks and Tampa Bay Devil Rays were born.
Maiz admits that initial attempt had more to do with learning the process than with reality. After all, Mexico's economy was in a meltdown then. Though there are signs of recovery now, the peso still lags far behind the dollar, with an exchange rate of about 7 to 1.
The markets here obviously can bear little burden. The Sultanes' game tickets, for instance, range from $1 to $9 in American currency. This series saw a markup, but only to the equivalent of $4 to $18. A beer or a soda cost a mere 5 pesos, or about 80 cents. Hamburgers, generous in size, could be had for 15 pesos, or about $2. Plastic baseball helmets sell for 30 pesos.
"To create perfect conditions, to have a big-league circumstances at this point would be very difficult," admitted Roberto Magdeleno, the general manager of the Sultanes. "But we have to prepare, perhaps with foreign capital."
Maiz, whose investment in the future included a joint venture with the Padres to pump $100,000 worth of improvements into his park, remains optimistic. "As soon as the economy recovers, we have the potential to pay major league figures. And we know, sooner or later, Monterrey will get a major league baseball team. If not in the next expansion, then the next. We expect to be there."
So, too, do major leaguers, but with no small amount of trepidation.
"When you're so used to living in the States, coming here with the language differences, the cultural differences, to worry about the food and the water, it will be really hard to convince a guy to come here," said Mets stopper John Franco. "When you've got to worry about brushing your teeth every day, or leaving your family here when you go on the road, I don't know."
Indeed, precious few players brought their families on this trip.
"It's better than I thought it would be," Gwynn said. "People have been very friendly. But my own opinion is that they are quite a bit away.
"It will be trying to convince guys that this is a major league town."
Gene Orza, the Players Association's second in command, said: "I do view it as a problem, a real problem. But whether it's a transitory problem or one of a much longer duration, I don't know."
Yet such concerns still do not squelch the sense of inevitability. Said Orza: "Monterrey has the two principal ingredients for expansion: a lot of people and a lot of enthusiasm for baseball. Are economic standards today up to major league levels? It's hard to say.
"But players, for the opportunity to play true major league baseball, have always been willing to make sacrifices. And there are elements of this enterprise that make one hope this could be a major league city."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A fan in Monterrey holding a sign proclaiming that baseball in Mexico is called Sultanes, the name of a local team. The city played host Friday to the first regular-season major league game outside of the U.S. and Canada. (Reuters) (pg. 1); The Mexican native Fernando Valenzuela was greeted with chants of "Toro! Toro!" -- for his nickname, Bull, on Friday night. (Associated Press) (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: SAN DIEGO PADRES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (93%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN DIEGO PADRES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (93%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTERREY (MEXICO); MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (78%); BOSTON, MA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (94%); SPORTS FANS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SOCCER (73%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE JOHN MAJOR (92%); JOE MCILVAINE (66%); TONY GWYNN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



426 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-21
 
SEEDS OF A RUSSIAN DEFEAT
Chechen separatists have once again managed to defeat the Russian Army, which is the biggest in Europe but suffers from corruption, poor training, bad equipment and low morale. 1
 
FEAR AND HATRED IN CYPRUS
Two Greek Cypriots were killed by Turkish Cypriot security forces during a week of violence that has stunned Cypriots on both sides of the divided island and brought old hatreds to the surface. 3
 
GLASGOW'S ANTI-DRUG EFFORTS
Glasgow is battling a drug epidemic with a controversial program called "harm reduction," whose goal is to prevent AIDS and reduce mugging, shoplifting and other crimes caused by drug addiction. 14
 
UNEASY PEACE IN GUATEMALA
For the first time in 35 years, Guatemala is not ravaged by civil war. But a peace agreement between the armed forces and leftist guerrillas has yet to be concluded, leaving the country uneasy and impatient. 20
 
LIBERIANS BURY THEIR DEAD
Dr. Isaac Moses of Monrovia leads 50 volunteers who spend their days digging up the hundreds of hastily buried victims of Liberia's latest round of civil strife and taking them to cemeteries for proper burial. 21
 
In the wake of war, Dubrovnik is rethinking its tourism. 4
 
Clinton's efforts to oust the U.N. Secretary General are stalling. 9
 
Thanks to prohibition, Indian women say life has improved. 10
 
National 24-34
 
PEROT WINS NOMINATION
Ross Perot won the nomination of the Reform Party, officials announced last night, setting the stage for another unpredictable candidacy by the Dallas billionaire. Mr. Perot easily beat his only challenger, Richard D. Lamm, the former Governor of Colorado. 1
 
PRE-CONVENTION STRATEGY
Democrats have set two goals for their national convention: raise doubts about the tax-cut plan and moderate image the Republicans touted, and then use the President's aura of incumbency to reach out to voters. 1
 
POST-CONVENTION STRATEGY
Republicans say the White House is within Bob Dole's grasp if he succeeds in a two-pronged strategy of convincing voters that his economic prescriptions would be a boon to taxpayers and that President Clinton is so tainted by ethical questions that he should not be re-elected. 28
Chicago is sprucing itself up for the Democratic convention. 30
 
KEMP'S MEDICAL EXEMPTION
Jack Kemp, the Republican candidate for Vice President, received a medical exemption in 1961 that allowed him to avoid active duty in the Army while he played professional football. 27
 
SIZING UP DOLE AND COMPANY
Now that the Republican National Convention has ended, Republican, Democratic and independent voters nationwide are talking about what it meant to them. 26
President Clinton attacked Bob Dole's tax plan as unrealistic. 31
 
FAMILIES HIT BY WAGE FLUXES
More and more Americans who were accustomed to jobs with fixed wages and predictable raises are finding that all or part of their pay can fluctuate steeply, in ways often beyond their control. 1
 
New Mexico's Indian gaming industry is prosperous. And illegal. 24
 
Metro 43-48
 
SEEKING CLUES THROUGH VICTIMS
With the underwater inquiry into the explosion of T.W.A. Flight 800 failing to yield answers about the cause of the crash, investigators say their best hope for a break in the case may lie above ground in the hunt for human suspects. 1
CLERGY JOIN FORCES WITH UNIONS
Religious leaders are making common cause with trade unions, lending their moral authority to denounce sweatshops, back a higher minimum wage and help organize workers. 1
 
CRITICAL MASS IN THE HAMPTONS
Yes, it gets more crowded every year. No, it isn't the way it used to be. Even in this summer of disgruntling weather and too-close-for-comfort tragedy, the complaint is ongoing in the Hamptons: People keep coming here! 43
 
QUESTIONS RAISED ON I.N.S. OFFICE
The Immigration and Naturalization Service's office in Newark recovered 60 fraudulently issued green cards and other work papers recently, then discovered its own office had issued some of them. 43
 
Obituaries 51
Leo McLaughlin, former president of Fordham University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CYPRUS (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LIBERIA (92%); TURKEY (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CYPRUS (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); LIBERIA (92%); TURKEY (92%); GUATEMALA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GREECE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ARMIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); TAX RELIEF (75%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); LIBERALISM (73%); ETHICS (72%); AIDS & HIV (71%); DRUG POLICY (70%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); GOVERNORS (64%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); SHOPLIFTING (56%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



427 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1851 words

HEADLINE: WAGE VOLATILITY FAR MORE COMMON THAN EVER BEFORE

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Cole Grady was earning $52,000 a year as a technician at a herbicide plant in Muscatine, Iowa, including $15,000 in overtime. But then the overtime disappeared, and the Grady family abruptly entered the growing and uncertain world of fluctuating pay.
A change in technology eliminated most of the extra hours that Mr. Grady, 45, had come to count on as part of his income. Trying to make up the loss, his wife, Christine, 42, took a McDonald's counter job last year at $5 an hour -- but for 30 hours one week, 40 the next, 20 the third. She is never sure how much pay she will bring home. 
 "We have gotten into a situation where too much is riding on variable income, and that scares me," Mr. Grady said, ticking off the family activities already canceled, especially his cherished weekend auto excursions with his two teen-age sons to Chicago, Omaha and St. Louis.
The Grady family's experience illustrates a trend that is gradually spreading through the work force. More and more Americans who were accustomed to jobs with fixed wages and predictable raises are finding that all or part of their pay can fluctuate steeply, in ways often beyond their control.
Income swings traditionally associated with traveling salesmen and Wall Street brokers are becoming common in other occupations, too, and that could in time affect national behavior.
"You are forced to take life more day to day," said David Popenoe, a Rutgers University sociologist. "Planning for a child's education or the purchase of a home can be very difficult. What we think of as the future becomes economically compromised for many families."
The trend, so far, is only sparsely documented. While much attention and research has focused on layoffs, wage stagnation and income inequality, few studies have spotlighted the rise in wage volatility.
But several labor economists in academia have spotted the change taking place. And the Census Bureau, in an analysis for The New York Times, found that 54 percent of the nation's workers -- janitors through executives -- experienced serious wage and salary fluctuation in 1994, up from 49 percent a decade earlier.
"From the few studies that are available, it is becoming clear that in the 1980's and 1990's, there has been more earnings volatility than in the 1960's and 1970's," said Lawrence Katz, a Harvard labor economist.
Gyrating incomes have always been a characteristic of the American economy, of course. Until the 1920's, most Americans depended for their livelihood on farming, with its uncertain harvests.
Through the generations, salesmen and brokers have lived on commissions, a risky way of life that often brought the clever and the energetic far more than a steady salary would have furnished.
After World War II, however, the United States entered an era in which secure jobs at steady pay became the model. That is still the situation for many Americans. But in the last 25 years, this system has gradually unraveled, with unsettling consequences for many workers and opportunity and wealth for some.
Many workplace changes feed the volatility. Companies increasingly rely on outsiders rather than permanent employees, hiring them for relatively short periods. Temporary and contract workers, self-employed consultants and day workers now represent 10 percent of the American work force, according to the Labor Department, which attempted for the first time last year to count their growing numbers. The largest category -- workers farmed out by temporary help agencies -- totaled 2.2 million, up fivefold from 417,000 in 1982.
Linda Eskander, 42, who owns a brownstone in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn, is one, having hired herself out through Kelly Services seven times since last fall. Needing time to renovate the brownstone so she can sell it, but also enough income to pay bills, she left her $32,500-a-year job as an administrative assistant at a real estate company, having learned, she said, that while many companies resist hiring, they are quick to take on temps.
Earning $15 an hour at Citibank and $12 at the Brooklyn Museum -- stints interrupted by days devoted to renovation -- Ms. Eskander's income this year will be roughly half what it was in 1995. "Without the demand for temps," she said, "I would not have been able to leave my steady job."
The change in the status of labor unions has also contributed to volatility. They once insisted on fixed wages and annual raises, setting pay standards in the process for many nonunion workers, too. But union membership and influence have declined for years, and unions today have become more willing to agree to fluctuating bonuses in lieu of raises. Last year, a record 45 percent of the workers covered by newly negotiated major labor contracts got onetime bonuses in lieu of raises.
Overtime also plays a role. Rather than hire additional permanent employees, many companies increase the hours of those already on staff in boom times, then cut back this overtime when sales decline. That is particularly the case in manufacturing, where average overtime hours fell by 10 percent as the economy slowed in the first half of last year. The economy then surged this spring and overtime rebounded, also by 10 percent, the Labor Department said.
Above all, corporate America is pushing the trend toward volatile earnings by trying to tie more workers' pay -- not only executives, but clerks and assembly-line workers as well -- to performance, their own and the company's. In a new survey of 750 companies by Towers Perrin, a management consulting firm, 27 percent said they would eliminate traditional raises over the next three years, substituting bonuses and profit sharing.
"If you have a bad year, you can offset this by cutting out bonuses, and if you have a good one, you can offer fat rewards," said Sandra O'Neal, a Towers Perrin executive.
So far, the heightened volatility in workers' income is not having the effects that economic theory predicts. Savings should be rising, as people put aside money to get through the downturns in their earnings, and consumption should be falling, as people cut back to what they can count on earning, as Mr. Grady is starting to do.
But Government data show just the opposite. The explanation offered is that most Americans affected by the change do not yet share Mr. Grady's concern that income volatility leads to lower incomes. Instead, many people use credit cards and loans to finance the valleys in their incomes, gambling on another peak soon to pay down the debt.
"These are people who built their spending patterns in the belief their incomes would be stable," said Brian O'Hare, head of Norwest Bank's credit card operation. "But they aren't stable."
Certainly, Dan Luria embraces this tactic. As a director of the Industrial Technology Institute at the University of Michigan, he takes home more than $4,000 a month in stable university salary; he supplements this with three or four outside consulting jobs a year, each paying a fee of $15,000 or so. "I basically go into the hole in debt to finance family spending," Mr. Luria said, "and come out of it when my periodic fees arrive."
In years when Mr. Luria snags fewer consulting jobs, his income can plunge by 15 percent or more, and the debts take longer to pay. "Psychologically, you try to throttle back," he said, "but what you really do is build higher interest payments into your basic consumption bundle."
For some -- top executives of major corporations, investment bankers and entrepreneurs -- sharply fluctuating income is a boon, not a burden, reflecting the huge rewards in stock options, bonuses and profits that are possible in an era that encourages risk taking. "Some of the new variability we are seeing is the variability that comes to the fleet and the strong," said James Hechtman, a University of Chicago labor economist.
Geoffrey Berliner, 35, founder of Berliner Pen in Manhattan, is certainly one of the fleet. Having earned a Harvard master's degree in religion, planning to become a professor, he dropped that career path, with its promise of steady income, after concluding that teaching jobs would be sparse. A year as a paralegal convinced him that job security as a lawyer would not be much better. So in 1990 he turned a hobby -- collecting and repairing vintage fountain pens -- into an enterprise. His earnings from selling pens have risen by as much 50 percent a year, to $110,000 in 1995 from $26,000 in 1990.
"A lot of people are put into a position these days of taking a gamble," Mr. Berliner said. "They feel more secure about living by their wits and abilities than in taking a job that might not last."
Tracking volatility in earnings is difficult. It requires questioning the same people for at least two or three years to determine their earnings patterns. The Census Bureau tracks such a group of 20,000 households -- 60,000 people -- questioning them every four months, and has results available for 1984 through 1994. From these data, it found that the earnings of 54 percent of the group -- an American cross section -- gyrated by at least 5 percent in one or more of the four-month periods in 1994.
The University of Michigan has been tracking a group of 5,000 families since 1968. Its findings are not yet updated for the 1990's. But Peter Gottschalk of Boston College and Robert Moffitt of Johns Hopkins University, both labor economists, found in a 1994 study of the Michigan data, work that was the first to recognize the trend, that earnings volatility in the 1980's was greater than in the 1970's, particularly for low-income people, who lost ground.
Though corporations have increasingly embraced variable pay plans as a spur to performance, these plans sometimes breed discontent among workers. Allied Signal, for example, instituted a pilot cash bonus plan several years ago for 5,000 of its 77,000 employees, most of them earning under $30,000. The bonuses averaged 4 percent of pay, but represented as much as 10 percent for some workers. When goals were not met and no bonus appeared, there was disappointment.
"Not getting the bonus was perceived as a pay cut," said Marc Greenberg, a spokesman for Allied Signal, "rather than a failure to meet goals."
The cash bonus plan will not be expanded. But others are being tried, including stock options for lower-level workers. Those who got them last year could exercise a portion today, paying $34 a share for Allied Signal stock that could be resold for $62.75 a share.
Mr. Grady, who has worked 15 years at the Monsanto Company herbicide plant in Muscatine, also participates in a bonus plan, even serving on a committee that helps set the goals that qualify the plant's workers for bonuses. But the $2,900 he received last year, representing nearly 8 percent of his $38,000 in base pay, was $1,000 less than he had expected.
"We all have a say in setting goals," Mr. Grady said, "but the people who make the final decision are not affected. They are in another pay structure with a different bonus plan, and that is frustrating."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Eskander left her steady job so she could devote more time to renovating her house in Brooklyn. Hiring herself out as a temporary worker helped her make ends meet but also caused her income to fluctuate. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) (pg. 34)
 
Graphs: "Pay is Growing Less Predictable..." shows percent of workers whose income fluctuated by 5 percent or more in a four-month period in 1984 and 1994.; "...as Work Patterns Become More Varied" show number of primary and part-time self-employed individuals who worked at home, percent of workers who held more than one job, average weekly overtime hours in manufacturing, and percent of workers employed by temporary agencies. (Sources: Bureau of the Census; Bureau of Labor Statistics; IDC/Link) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES OVERTIME (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TRENDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FAMILY (77%); HERBICIDES (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (72%); SOCIOLOGY (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS COLE GRADY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



428 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE DEMOCRATS;
Democrats' Plan for Convention: Keep It Positive, and Presidential

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 17

 BODY:
Acknowledging that the Republicans put on a well-staged spectacle, Democrats have set two goals going into their own national convention: to raise doubts about the tax-cut plan and moderate image the Republicans touted, and then use the President's aura of incumbency to reach out to independent-minded voters.
In effect, Democratic aides said, they hope to have President Clinton bring the Oval Office with him to the convention in Chicago at the end of the month, striking the kind of "above the fray" tone he has sought all year, by announcing executive actions and making scarce mention of his opponents. 
 The President's aides say his address accepting the nomination will sound much like a State of the Union Message, complete with second-term executive and legislative proposals.
And while Democrats say they will not be shy about hammering home the policy differences between their party and their opponents, they also say they want to avoid the kind of personal ridicule that the Republicans heaped on Mr. Clinton at their convention in San Diego. The Democrats believe that the sharp-edged attacks, while popular in the partisan environment of the convention hall, backfires with voters less anchored to a political party.
"I thought the Republicans crossed the line of singe but don't burn," said Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, the general chairman of the Democratic National Committee. "I'm determined to the extent possible not to have the convention turn into a schoolyard playground rhetoric that aims at the personalities of people."
Mr. Clinton, in his weekly radio address today, began the assault on Mr. Dole's sweeping plan to cut taxes by $548 billion. While never mentioning Mr. Dole by name, Mr. Clinton said the proposal of "our opponents" could either balloon the deficit or results in cuts in popular programs like Medicare. He held out his own tax cut proposals for education and child rearing as preferable. "We agree on one thing," he said. "Americans do deserve a tax cut. But we must choose between a tax cut that responsibly balances the budget and one that puts our economy at risk."
Putting the final touches on plans for their own convention, Mr. Clinton's lieutenants insisted they were not rewriting them in light of the Republicans' generally successful attempt to package the just-ended San Diego convention into a smooth, made-for-television picture of harmony. But they were still putting finished touches on their program in an effort to insure that their four-day gathering in Chicago proves newsworthy and gives them a lift to match the one that polls suggest Mr. Dole received from his convention.
Convention planners announced today that Hillary Rodham Clinton would have a prominent speaking role at the gathering, taking place in her hometown, despite the controversies that have made her a polarizing figure. Clinton advisers said Mrs. Clinton had begun working on a speech three weeks ago, before Elizabeth Dole's star turn at the Republican convention, when she roamed the floor with a microphone and spoke reverentially of her husband.
Vice President Al Gore's wife, Tipper, will also have a speaking role, most likely immediately before Mrs. Clinton. Mr. Gore, of course, will make his own acceptance speech.
And Gov. Evan Bayh of Indiana is to deliver the keynote address, featured as a young can-do Democratic Governor in something of the Clinton mold.
Like the Republicans, the Democrats will feature plenty of appearances by ordinary Americans, which they hope to use to highlight the themes of opportunity, responsibility and community that Mr. Clinton has returned to repeatedly since the "New Covenant" speeches with which he first defined his Presidential candidacy in 1991.
One night of the convention is being envisioned as devoted solely to Americans speaking about overcoming personal difficulties and the effect of government policies.
The Democrats said that the actor Christopher Reeves, who became paralyzed in a horse-riding accident would appear and so would a prominent Republican, Sarah Brady, who became an advocate for gun control after her husband James S. Brady was shot in the head in the 1981 attempt on President Ronald Reagan's life. The Democrats also announced that Alma Brown, the widow of the late Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown, would be the honorary convention chairwoman. One White House official said that Capt. Scott O'Grady, the F-16 pilot who was shot down over Bosnia and had a speaking role at the Republican convention, volunteered to appear before the Democrats too, but was not under consideration.
In preparation for the convention, the Democrats will be seeking to rub away the afterglow of the Republican gathering. A new Clinton commercial is running in battleground states reminding voters of the Republican Congress that was in little evidence in San Diego. "President Clinton stood firm and defended our values," the commercial says. "But next year, if Newt Gingrich controls Congress and his partner, Bob Dole, enters the Oval Office, there'll be nobody there to stop them."
Next week, Mr. Clinton plans to recapture the public spotlight through ceremonies highlighting his signing of bills that raise the minimum wage and broaden health care coverage. He could also sign the welfare overhaul bill before the convention if Congress forwards it to him.
Then, even as the Democratic convention opens in Chicago on Monday, Aug. 26, Mr. Clinton will strive to stay in the news with eye-catching announcement made on an old-fashioned whistle-stop train ride. For three days he will cross West Virginia and the industrial battleground states of Ohio and Michigan by train as his surrogates, the Gores and Mrs. Clinton make the rounds of the convention. He is to arrive in Chicago on Wednesday night crossing Lake Michigan by boat from Michigan City, Ind.
Campaign officials say the train will provide a populist touch and serve to take the Democrats' campaign themes outside the convention hall.
The week is to culminate with the renomination of Mr. Clinton. The tone of his acceptance speech on Thursday night, aides say, will be much like that of his new book, "Between Hope and History: Meeting America's Challenges for the 21st Century." But the speech is also likely to contain several dozen new initiatives looking toward 2000.
The Administration is examining ways to revitalize the inner cities and create new jobs for the welfare recipients who will be forced off public assistance by the stringent new welfare bill. Mr. Clinton's economic team has also drawn up a list of small, focused tax incentives for the President to review in preparation for his address, in case he wants to bolster his anti-tax credentials to face Mr. Dole, who has proposed a sweeping plan to spur economic growth while balancing the budget and cutting taxes by $548 billion over six years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (73%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (73%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (73%); MEDICARE (62%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



429 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1828 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE OVERVIEW;
Tuning Out the Campaign Will Be Difficult for Voters

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Aug. 17

 BODY:
Buoyed by their peaceful convention here this week, Republicans say the White House is within Bob Dole's grasp if he succeeds in a two-pronged strategy of convincing voters that his economic prescriptions would be a boon to all taxpayers and that President Clinton is so tainted by ethical questions that he should not be re-elected.
The Democrats, preparing for their convention in a week, are countering with an all-out offensive to convince voters that Mr. Dole's plan for an across-the-board tax cut while balancing the budget is irresponsible, and presenting Mr. Clinton as the leader whose stewardship has produced a relatively robust economy. 
 Not only are they eyeing each other warily, but both parties are also bracing for the expected emergence of Ross Perot this weekend as the nominee of his Reform Party. As in 1992, Mr. Perot is planning to spend millions of dollars in a burst of television advertising to try to set the agenda himself and offer himself as the only candidate who is serious about taking on the deficit.
Given the unusual closeness in time between the Republican and Democratic conventions, voters who have not paid attention to politics until now will suddenly be bombarded in the intense, and surely combative, 11-week run up to Election Day.
Even Democrats, who have had a significant lead in the polls, insisted they expected a close, hard-fought contest. "I think it's a tight race," Harold M. Ickes, deputy White House chief of staff, who oversees the campaign preparations, said in an interview. "We have our base at 25 or 26 percent. They have their base at 25 to 26 percent. And the rest is very, very volatile. It's a suspicious, insecure American public, and we are going through times of enormous social and economic change -- and none of us has a silver-bullet answer."
Citing new polls that show Mr. Dole closing in on Mr. Clinton's months-long advantage, Republicans contend that the race has become competitive, with Mr. Dole's economic plan, the convention here this week and the nomination of Jack Kemp for Vice President.
"Since the convention, the Colin Powell speech, Jack Kemp as V.P. and the economic growth plan, Clinton's been knocked down on his heels," said Mike Murphy, a strategist for Mr. Dole.
Yet for all the Republicans' bravado, and the professed nervousness of the Democrats, many analysts said in interviews that the post-convention exuberance among Republicans -- and any lift in the polls -- might be short-lived. Mr. Dole, who relinquished his Senate seat to campaign full time, still faces a steep uphill fight, they said.
The stakes are high, not only as Republicans try to reclaim the White House, but also in the struggle for control of Congress. Some Republicans openly worry that if Mr. Dole loses, it could cost their party the House and Senate, transforming their historic seizure of both chambers in 1994 into little more than an off-year anomaly.
That is why the Democrats are all the more aggressive in taking on the Republicans this year. So much so that before the convention hall cleared here on Thursday night, the Democratic Party was distributing a 12-page, point-by-point rebuttal of Mr. Dole's acceptance speech. And Mr. Clinton, in his radio address today, continued the offensive against Mr. Dole's economic plan, saying:
"Americans do deserve a tax cut. But we must choose between a tax cut that responsibly balances the budget and one that puts our economy at risk, between one that is targeted to help working families pay for education, health care and other pressing needs, and one that is indiscriminate."
For the Republicans, the first potential hurdle in their comeback strategy was this weekend, with the expected election of Mr. Perot as the nominee of his Reform Party at the convention in Valley Forge, Pa. While Mr. Dole's advisers publicly insisted that they were not worried about Mr. Perot and said he had lost credibility, they were concerned enough to plan a campaign stop in Pennsylvania on Sunday for Mr. Dole and Mr. Kemp, on their way from Buffalo to Washington.
On Aug. 26, a Monday, Democrats will arrive in Chicago for their party's four-night, prime-time extravaganza, which is to deliver a message to the public that despite the smiling faces of moderation on the podium here, the Republican Party is controlled by extremists.
Mr. Dole's advisers were pleasantly surprised in the last two weeks by the fact that he kept trained on his tax-cut proposal, because he was known for lacking discipline on the campaign trail. After his emotional departure from the Senate in June, for instance, he squandered opportunities to present himself as a politician who made a daring decision to quit the Senate in his quest for the Presidency. As the clock is running toward Election Day, the Dole campaign's calculation for victory depends on its candidate's incessant pitches for his economic plan.
Some experts have long noted that Mr. Dole may face a struggle for a reason that is well beyond his control: Dissatisfaction with the country in general and the economy in particular is not at the level that has led voters to oust an incumbent party in the past. And several surveys showed that people who were unhappy were more critical of Speaker Newt Gingrich and Republicans in Congress than of Mr. Clinton.
"It would be quite exceptional for a challenger to defeat an incumbent with the economy doing as well as it is," said Samuel Kernell, a political science professor at the University of California at San Diego. "By Dole calling for the tax cut, he's doing something that's very dear to Republicans, but it's going to be a very hard sell in saying we could be doing better than we're doing."
Indeed, an examination of Gallup polls in the Presidential elections over the last 16 years shows that about the time President Jimmy Carter was defeated in 1980 and President George Bush lost in 1992, more than 70 percent of the public was dissatisfied with the state of the country.
Yet in 1984 and 1988, there was no such overwhelming dissatisfaction, and the incumbent parties held on to the White House. As of May, 60 percent expressed dissatisfaction.
Mr. Dole made note of his challenge upon his departure here on Friday, when he declared: "Beating an incumbent President is not easy -- but it's going to happen."
But advisers to Mr. Dole insisted that it might not be so hard to catch up to the President. Mr. Dole's cash-poor organization now is enjoying an infusion of more than $60 million that each nominee can spend before Nov. 5 -- money the campaign plans to use to counter Mr. Clinton's barrage of television advertising that began last year. Early next week, the campaign plans to begin a major advertising campaign to rebut assertions that the economy has rebounded.
"We have a competitive race," said John Buckley, Mr. Dole's communications director. "By our now being fully funded, we can tell the Clinton story in a way that raises his negatives."
Another boost, Mr. Buckley said, is that Mr. Kemp has long been liked by some Democrats for reaching out to minorities and to the downtrodden.
"To win, we have to have a unified base to go into the fall and cherry-pick Democratic voters wherever we can," Mr. Buckley said. "We've achieved both of those objectives in Dole's choice of Kemp as Vice President and with a successful convention."
Most of all, the Dole campaign is counting on the tax-cut plan to energize the party's base, give Mr. Dole a core message -- and address the general unease about the state of the country felt by some voters. Some of Mr. Dole's strategists compared the challenge before them to the successful campaigns against other challengers: the elections of Govs. John Engler of Michigan in 1990 and Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey in 1993. Both candidates put forward tax-cut plans that helped them come from behind to achieve upsets -- fueled largely by late-deciding voters -- against two incumbent Democrats: James Blanchard of Michigan and Jim Florio of New Jersey.
Mr. Murphy, who was a senior strategist both for Mr. Engler and Ms. Whitman and who is now working for Mr. Dole, said: "I've have experience in these races, so I've been very involved in driving the strategy. It's a classic challenger campaign: Guys like Florio or Governor Blanchard, for about a year before the election, their slogan is, 'I'm going to win.' And then the voters say, 'Wait a minute.' "
As for defeating Mr, Clinton, he said: "It's going to happen late against a weak incumbent. Republicans do well in elections where the referendum is on taxation and the economy."
Of the 10 largest states, only Texas was leaning toward Mr. Dole in recent polls -- and by only a narrow margin. But the Republicans plan for Mr. Dole to first close Mr. Clinton's advantage in about two dozen states that have traditionally been Republican strongholds in the South, the Great Plains and the Rocky Mountains. Once that is accomplished, he will campaign all out in the battleground states of the Midwest and, perhaps, where the President is well ahead: California.
The Democrats, meanwhile, have been quick to put down Mr. Dole's centerpiece proposal, ridiculing the practicality of cutting taxes significantly while balancing the budget. And they have been quick to dust off years of quotations in which Mr. Dole sounded skeptical of such supply-side notions.
But the Democrats are also trying not to be overly confident. Sounding alternately optimistic and worried, Mr. Ickes, the deputy chief of staff, said: "People, I think, are generally feeling better now about their economic circumstances than they were, say, a year and a half or two years ago. But they're still unsure about the future. And more importantly, they're unsure about the future for their children."
Scott Reed, Mr. Dole's campaign manager, also wavered between sounding upbeat and nervous. After saying that the Democrats "do a good job of using the White House as a platform to play politics," he criticized his opponents for not taking better advantage of Mr. Dole's campaign troubles months ago. "They could have put this away in May," Mr. Reed said. "We were broke -- and we had problems in the Senate."
Though some conservatives complained that their positions were not featured prominently enough during the convention, many said the selection of Mr. Kemp would inspire them to work harder for Mr. Dole.
"We have a different Republican Party now with Dole and Kemp than anyone expected before they assembled in San Diego," said John H. Bunzel, a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution, a conservative organization at Stanford University.
"The Republican Party has put forward an image that it hopes will reach out into every corner of America and transcend the hard edges of the Gingrich Congress," Mr. Bunzel said. "Whether or not they're going to be successful is what this campaign is all about."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As a result of their peaceful national convention in San Diego last week, Republicans say they feel confident about a victory by Bob Dole in November. Their mood was reflected on Thursday as they celebrated with, from left, Elizabeth Dole, Mr. Dole, Jack Kemp and his wife, Joanne. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (93%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (93%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ETHICS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (53%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); ELIZABETH DOLE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



430 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: Labor and Clergy Are Reuniting To Help the Underdogs of Society

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
More than at any other time in decades, religious leaders are making common cause with trade unions, lending their moral authority to denounce sweatshops, back a higher minimum wage and help organize janitors and poultry workers.
The clergy has not lined up with labor to such an extent since the heyday of Cesar Chavez, the charismatic farm workers' leader, in the 1970's and perhaps the Depression, union and religious leaders say. 
 Many in the clergy say they have rallied to labor's banner because the newly revived union movement is addressing what they view as the key ethical issues of the day, including the growing gulf between the haves and have-nots.
"People are becoming poorer and less secure in this era of downsizing, and capital has gotten tougher," said Rabbi Arthur Hertzberg, former national president of the American Jewish Congress. "People in the clergy like me who grew up during the New Deal are going back on the warpath to try to defend the weak. Under these circumstances, where else would you expect the clergy to be but increasingly on the side of labor?"
Rabbi Hertzberg was among 57 ministers, priests and rabbis who held a news conference in Newark in the spring and signed a full-page advertisement aimed at pressuring a New Jersey dairy to settle a strike and criticizing its two-tier wage offer as too low to support a family.
One recent morning, 25 members of the clergy, several from New York and Chicago, prayed in front of the Case Farms poultry plant in Morganton, N.C., to urge management to sign a union contract and improve working conditions.
Labor-clergy coalitions have sprouted in New York City, Albany, Syracuse, Rochester, Boston, Detroit and Chicago, and a steering committee of 40 clerics is forming the National Interfaith Committee for Worker Justice.
In March, the New York State Labor-Religion Coalition, the umbrella group, organized a 40-hour fast in which more than 1,000 people in 10 cities, including some 50 members of the clergy, fasted to protest Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed welfare and health-care cuts.
"We fear for the future of our society where a very wealthy elite benefits from government policies while the endangered middle class experiences falling wages and increased economic uncertainty," said Bishop Howard Hubbard of Albany, co-chairman of the New York coalition.
Business executives are not happy about the alliance between labor and clergy. Many contend that labor disputes are not part of the clergy's mission. They argue that many in the clergy do not understand how a union can hurt a corporation's -- and the nation's -- competitiveness and that they often do not study the complexities of a dispute.
Marc Goldman, president of Farmland Dairy in Wallington, N.J., had some harsh words for Rabbi Hertzberg and other clergy members who signed the advertisement attacking his offer of $8.25 an hour and benefits to many new workers.
"None of the clergy who signed on bothered to contact us," Mr. Goldman said, asserting that his offer was similar to one the striking teamsters union had signed with other dairies. "Clearly, they were manipulated. I lose a certain amount of respect for clergy who represent themselves as interested in justice but deny someone justice by not hearing both sides before making up their mind."
The clergy's show of support for labor has taken many forms: sermons, petitions, pastoral letters, protest marches, meetings with management, sit-ins and Congressional testimony. And that aid has come from many quarters, from black ministers who labored in the civil rights movement, from priests whose siblings are union members, and from rabbis whose grandparents were union stalwarts as apparel workers on Manhattan's Lower East Side.
Religious leaders note that historically the clergy has lent labor a helping hand. In a landmark 1891 encyclical, Pope Leo XIII said that the right of workers to associate freely was fundamental, and he called on all employers to pay an adequate wage. Pope John Paul II has repeatedly praised unions in his encyclicals, as has the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops in pastoral letters. In Congressional testimony, John Cardinal O'Connor of New York has attacked management's use of permanent replacement workers because it "can make a charade of collective bargaining and a mockery of the right to strike."
The clergy's work with labor has grown markedly since last October, when John J. Sweeney became the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s president on a platform of reinvigorating the long-moribund federation. The federation has doubled its organizing efforts, pushed for a higher minimum wage and tried to attract young people as union organizers.
John L. Carr, secretary of the department of social development at the United States Conference of Bishops, said, "A newly energized labor movement provides new opportunities to share our convictions and act on our teachings."
In recent decades, the clergy kept its distance for a number of reasons, including pervasive corruption in the teamsters and other unions.
In the 1960's, the liberal clergy was preoccupied with the civil rights movement. In the 1970's many clerics saw little need to help union members because they believed they were thriving for the most part.
"To some degree in the 60's, 70's and into the early 80's," said the Rev. Paul Sherry, president of the 1.5 million-member United Church of Christ, "religious leaders felt that working people, through the involvement of trade unions, were doing quite well, and the concern of religious people tended to be for very poor people. But after conditions began to deteriorate for working people in the 1980's, we see that we once again need to look at the concerns of working people."
The end of the cold war also fostered stronger labor-clergy ties. In the 1980's, many liberal clerics supported El Salvador's leftist guerrillas and Nicaragua's leftist government. Their relations with labor soured when Lane Kirkland, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s passionately anti-Communist former president, threw the federation's weight against the Central American left. Religious leaders say that Mr. Sweeney, who never had a reputation as a fervent warrior in the cold war, has sought to heal those divisions.
"We need these types of coalitions if we're going to be successful in helping working people," Mr. Sweeney said.
These days, 100 or so members of the clergy and of unions attend meetings of the New York City coalition when less than a dozen might have shown up two years ago. In May, dozens of clerics joined union-backed demonstrations throughout the five boroughs to protest plans to close or privatize city-owned hospitals.
In Atlanta, the Rev. Dr. Bennie Mitchell, director of labor relations for the 8.5 million-member National Baptist Convention, was arrested with a half-dozen other clergy members for sitting in at an Atlanta Kmart. They were protesting the company's failure to sign a contract and its practice of paying the work force at its Greensboro, N.C., warehouse less than workers at other Kmart warehouses.
"I was there because I have a mandate from whom I represent," Dr. Mitchell said. "Biblically, God is on the side of the oppressed. He led the Israelites out of Egypt to the promised land, and Jesus died for the oppressed."
Late last year, Rabbi Rolando Madelon of B'nai Jeshuron, a Manhattan synagogue, threw his weight behind a garment union's campaign and told the Gap that if it did not clean up an El Salvador sweatshop that made its clothes, he would tell his congregation that buying Gap goods violated Jewish ethical laws.
"Religious issues are not relegated to the inside of the synagogue or the church," he said. "We're discussing religious texts to make our faith relevant and to have something to say about the world in which we live. The Bible and the sacred texts have a lot to say about the sanctity of human life and the exploitation of men, women and children."
Rabbi Madelon's letter helped persuade the Gap to change its ways, company officials said, but the clergy has not convinced management to bend in a yearlong newspaper strike in Detroit. Indeed, managers at The Detroit Free Press and The Detroit News were angered when more than 500 clergy members called for a boycott of the newspapers because they use permanent replacement workers. Bishop Thomas Gumbleton of Detroit has led civil disobedience efforts to protest the newspapers' use of such workers.
Tim Kelleher, the newspapers' senior vice president for labor relations, said: "We don't feel the clergy has any business getting involved in the labor dispute. We've hired 1,200 replacement workers. Many of them are members of religious sects. We feel these clergy are certainly not speaking for all members of their religious faith. They certainly aren't speaking for me, and I happen to be Catholic."
While many executives dismiss these members of the clergy as reflexively antibusiness, the clerics insist otherwise.
"By being supportive of trade unions, we do not intend to be anti-business," said Mr. Sherry of the United Church of Christ. "As religious leaders, we're trying to find ways to assist a society to become more balanced in terms of the way it allocates its benefits. We believe the balance is now against working people, and has to be righted."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE LABOR-RELIGION COALITION (83%); AMERICAN JEWISH CONGRESS (56%); AMERICAN JEWISH CONGRESS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN JEWISH CONGRESS (56%); AMERICAN JEWISH CONGRESS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNIONIZATION; LABOR UNIONS; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; SWEATSHOPS; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE; ETHICS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RELIGION (97%); LABOR UNIONS (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); SWEATSHOPS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); ETHICS (89%); POULTRY (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); FARM LABOR (73%); POULTRY PROCESSING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN ARTHUR HERTZBERG (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



431 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
Dole Preaches Lower Taxes to an Audience of Firm Believers

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Ill., Aug. 17

 BODY:
Following the campaign trail laid down 10 years ago by another Republican Presidential candidate, Bob Dole came today to one of Ronald Reagan's favorite campaign stops, the Illinois State Fair, to preach one of Mr. Reagan's favorite messages: tax cuts.
"The President says the era of big Government is over," Mr. Dole declared at a frenzied and packed rally inside a show barn on the grounds of the state fair. "Well, it will be for him on Nov. 5, 1996." 
 "We are having slower economic growth than in any recovery in the country," Mr. Dole told hundreds of people who filled the show barn, waving flags, flowers and pictures of the candidate. "Think about it. It's a long, long time. They've given you lower wages, economic anxiety and the largest tax increase in the history of the world. And that's why they're going to go back to Arkansas."
At that, Mr. Dole's crowd -- one of the largest and most excited he has encountered in this campaign -- broke into a deafening roar of: "Send Bill home!"
Mr. Dole, with his running mate, Jack Kemp, took the stage today aware of a poll by his campaign, as well as other media surveys, that found evidence that the race had tightened markedly since the convention begun. He was also aware that the Democrats have began their own effort, leading up to their convention in Chicago next week, to portray Mr. Dole's tax cut plan as a threat to the deficit and to such programs as Medicare.
"They're trying to scare the American people about my pro-growth economic plan," he said. "The only people who are really scared -- you can almost see it in their faces -- are the Democrats in the White House."
Mr. Dole's crowd was made up largely of farmers, many of them Republicans, and many recalled coming to this same fair to see Mr. Reagan and President George Bush. Still, even given the Republican and agricultural roots here -- Mr. Dole grew up in Russell, Kan., also farm country -- the Republican Presidential candidate seemed startled by the vigor of his reception.
When he came to the part of the speech where he advocated a "flatter, fairer" tax system, he slipped and termed it a "fatter" tax. Mr. Dole grinned as his audience howled, looked down at the reporters at his feet and corrected himself. "Flatter, fairer and simpler," he said. The tax system, he said, is "fat enough."
Mr. Dole's appearance in what he called "the heartland" was framed by picturesque symbols of agriculture. Harvested stalks of sweet corn -- seven feet high -- were lined up against the stage. The stage itself was piled with bales of straw. For all the trappings, though, the site was quite genuine; a dairy cow show was moved out of the center this morning to make room for Mr. Dole's rally, which had to be moved inside because it rained.
Mr. Dole has been to Springfield before, and he used this visit today to invoke the names of both Lincoln and Mr. Reagan. At the conclusion of the rally, he and Mr. Kemp went to visit Lincoln's tomb.
Mr. Dole's aides also said they had decided, at least for now, to reduce the visibility of Elizabeth Dole. For the past two days, she has been on stage but has not spoken. Campaign officials, asked about this, said there was some concern that the campaign strengths of both the candidate's wife and his running mate could overshadow Mr. Dole's more laconic and less structured style.
Throughout the day, Mr. Dole and his aides were cheered by their reception here and by the results of their polling, which -- uncharacteristically -- they shared with reporters. They did not do that when Mr. Dole was trailing far behind Mr. Clinton. Scott Reed, Mr. Dole's campaign manager, laughed at Democratic efforts to link him with Newt Gingrich, the House Speaker. "Dole-Gingrich is over," Mr. Reed said. "It's now Dole-Kemp."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Listeners at the Illinois Fair, a favorite campaign stop of Ronald Reagan, responded enthusiastically yesterday to Bob Dole's call for lower taxes. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD (ILL); ILLINOIS; UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US); TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MEDICARE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; NAGOURNEY, ADAM; KEMP, JACK F RONALD REAGAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



432 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE VOTERS;
Sizing Up Dole and Company: Voices From the East Coast to the West

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

 BODY:
With the end of the Republican National Convention, Republicans, Democrats and independent voters around the nation reacted to the four-day event.
 
Peachtree City, Ga.
Move to the Middle Pleases Many
When the police get called in Peachtree City, the crime is less likely to be murder, rape or assault than driving under the influence -- in a golf cart. This 26-year-old planned community, 18 miles south of Atlanta, is a rapidly growing suburban cocoon where new homes cost an average of $180,000, the population is more than 90 percent white, and 4,000 families have purchased golf carts for use on the city's 68 miles of roadside paths. 
 It has been 20 years since a Democratic Presidential candidate won more than a third of the vote here. But for months, through the early jockeying and the primaries, residents were having difficulty building much enthusiasm for Bob Dole. The Republican National Convention seems to have changed that.
On the day after the convention, people interviewed here said they were impressed with the content and delivery of Mr. Dole's acceptance speech on Thursday night. They were thrilled by his selection of Jack Kemp as a running mate.
Above all, they appreciated the moderate, tolerant, inclusive tone of the proceedings, even if it had been scripted by consultants to produce just that response. As in most of Atlanta's exurbs, many residents of Peachtree City are transplanted Northerners who do not share the social conservatism embraced by native Southerners.
"I've just been fascinated that the far right didn't dominate like I thought they would, which is a relief," said Elizabeth L. Drinnon, a 42-year-old health physicist who was eating breakfast at Shadows restaurant with her husband and two sons. "It wasn't only Dole, but the whole platform they presented was so tempered. It was more what we wanted to hear."
As someone who tends to vote for conservative Democrats, Ms. Drinnon said she had been leaning toward President Clinton before the convention. "Now I'm more wishy-washy," she said.
Ms. Drinnon's 47-year-old husband, Jim, had a similar reaction. "I thought one of the highlights was Colin Powell's speech," said Mr. Drinnon, the director of environmental health for the State of Georgia. "I think he represents more of what the Republican Party is all about. He's not too far to the right or too far to the left. He has a very strong social conscience while also talking about the other issues we are interested in, like budget reduction, a strong defense and tax reform."
Both Drinnons said they had seen a new side of Mr. Dole in his acceptance speech. "He's very caring and has a real sense of humor," Mr. Drinnon said.
"When he said he expected Clinton to be in the hall any minute, I thought it was hilarious," he added, referring to Mr. Dole's assertion that Mr. Clinton had "tried to be a good Republican."
To Ms. Drinnon, Mr. Dole was "not as mean-spirited or as hard as I thought, and that made him more palatable."
A number of other Peachtree City residents made similar observations.
Before the convention, Guy C. Ellis, a retired insurance agent, said, Mr. Dole "didn't smile much." He added, "But from the time he named Kemp, he couldn't seem to quit smiling."
Mr. Ellis's wife, Mildred, said, "That had to be the wisest choice he could have made."
Both Ellises said the addition of Mr. Kemp to the ticket made them far more comfortable with Mr. Dole. "We formerly lived in Pennsylvania, about 90 miles from Buffalo, and we watched Jack Kemp play football his whole career," Mr. Ellis said.
While swinging at a playground with his 21-month-old son, Nicholas, on his lap, John C. Schmidt also praised Mr. Dole's selection of Mr. Kemp. "He didn't do what George Bush did," said Mr. Schmidt, a regional sales manager for a golf equipment company. "If anything happens to Bob Dole, God forbid, we've got someone with experience, someone who knows the process. And I think Kemp appeals to a broad spectrum of people."
Elizabeth M. Jones, a 31-year-old mother who moved here from Westchester County, N.Y., two years ago, said that Mr. Dole had given "an inspiring speech, very emotional." The speech, she said, helped persuade her to vote for Mr. Dole rather than for Ross Perot, as she did four years ago. "He came out fighting when he took on the teachers' unions," she said. "And he didn't play too much on the whole war hero thing."
Ms. Jones said she favored abortion rights but would support Mr. Dole, an opponent of abortion rights, because of his economic proposals, including his plan to cut income taxes by 15 percent. "You have to look at the whole package," she said.
If there was a clear convention loser in Peachtree City, it was the television networks. A number of people volunteered that they had switched from the networks to C-Span because of the commenting by network anchors and reporters.
"We like that C-Span," Mr. Ellis said. "They just let us watch it and form our own opinion." KEVIN SACK

GRAPHIC: Photo: GEORGIA Elizabeth M. Jones, 31, with her daughter, Victoria, in Peachtree City, said Bob Dole's speech helped win her vote. (Rob Nelson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PEACHTREE CITY (GA); UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); SUBURBS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); FAMILY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); RESTAURANTS (63%); BUDGETS (60%); TAX REFORM (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



433 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 15; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT GUIDE

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:

NEW KITTENS
 The Beardsley Zoo, at 1875 Noble Avenue in Bridgeport, has a new attraction -- three 12-week-old lynx kittens. They are the first felines to be born at the zoo since 1986, when a Siberian tiger gave birth to triplets. The lynx kittens and their mother may be watched at play for a few hours each day at the zoo. 
 Meanwhile, special free entertainment programs for children are scheduled at the zoo's pavilion on the next two Saturday afternoons, when the Amazing Andy will perform magic, juggling and comedy.
Zoo hours are 9 to 4 every day, and admission is $4 for adults, $2 for older adults and children 3 through 11, free to children under 3. The number for more information is 331-1557.

NEW OTTERS
The Maritime Aquarium in Norwalk (formerly called the Maritime Center) has acquired a pair of nature's most playful species -- young North American river otters named Bell and Sprite after two islands in Norwalk Harbor.
Their new home consists of two pools, two waterfalls and a habitat that mimics a wooded shoreline. One of their favorite pastimes is sliding down a mud bank into the water. Underwater and above-water viewing puts visitors no more than 7 feet away from the animals.
Another exhibition at the aquarium will enable visitors to reach out and touch a shark. It's called a Shark Touch Pool, and staff members who are constantly in attendance say that these are harmless species of sharks, skates and rays. Stroking the back of a shark can be a reassuring experience for the visitor and although it has not been confirmed, probably feels pretty good to the shark.
The center, at 10 North Water Street, is open daily from 10 to 6. Admission is $7.50 for adults, $4.50 for children and older adults. The number for more information is 852-0700.

CHANGING FASHIONS
You are what you wear is a notion that is evident in the exhibition at the Barnum Museum in Bridgeport through Sept. 8. "Try This On: A History of Clothing, Gender and Power" tracks 200 years of changing fashions and mores in the United States.
Victorian prudery is reflected in women's corsets and multiple undergarments. Parasols, gloves, hair-curling gadgets, bathing suits that covered men and women almost everywhere except the face, and dozens of additional examples of raiment are on display.
Changing perceptions about gender are examined during the Roaring Twenties, when women bobbed their hair, wore short skirts and pants, and very little underneath. A half-century later men grew their hair long and took to necklaces, loose flowing clothing and over-the-shoulder purses.
A number of products related to the world of clothes were (and some still are) manufactured in Bridgeport. Among those represented in the exhibition are Warnaco Inc., makers of corsets and underwear; Remington, makers of shavers, hair dryers and curlers, and vintage models of Howe and Singer Sewing machines.
The museum, located at 820 Main Street, is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 to 4:30; Sunday from noon to 4:30. Admission is $5 for adults, $4 for college students, children 4 through 18 and older adults. Children under 4 are admitted free. The number for more information is 331-1104.

GOOD SEEDS
Wethersfield is the home of the red onion and many other tasty items offered to the public in seed form by Comstock, Ferre & Company, the Charles H. Hart Seed Company and other firms that have gone out of business over the years, or been taken over by larger competitors.
An exhibition titled "Good Seed in the Proper Season," on view at the Wethersfield Historical Society through October, examines the town's impressive agricultural history.
Because it is on some of the state's most fertile soil, adjacent to the Connecticut River, Wethersfield moved easily into being a center of the seed industry in the 19th century. Benefitting economically from Hartford's sizable population nearby, Wethersfield's seed growers and farmers prospered, changing crops to meet market demands. As the country grew, for example, wheat and other crops began to come in from the West, and tobacco became a more lucrative item for farmers in Connecticut.
Early onion farming of the 18th century to modern dairy farms are covered in one section of the exhibition, replete with such tools and machinery as a flax brake and wheel, corn sheller, seed drills and scythes.
Seed as a major industry in the 19th and early 20th century takes up a second section with displays of grain riddles, seed drying racks, germinators and oak seed bins. Patented seeding implements, photographs, seed catalogs, packets and broadsides are also featured.
The society is at 150 Main Street and is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 to 4, Sunday from 1 to 4. Admission is $2, free to children under 17. The number is 529-7656 for more information.

DANBURY FESTIVAL
The recently built Danbury green will be the site of the third annual Gasball Festival on Saturday from 11:30 A.M. to midnight. Continuous entertainment by two dozen music groups will be offered for alternating periods on two stages, artists will hold an exhibition of painting and sculpture, and local area merchants will present a wide variety of merchandise and food for sale.
Gasball, the name of a local art gallery that sponsors the event, is the nickname given to a huge, empty gray ball-shaped storage tank that sits at the edge of downtown and was used formerly to store gas.
The Gasball Gallery specializes in offbeat and avant garde works -- a policy that will be followed in choosing the art and music for the Gasball Festival. The rain date is next Sunday. The number is 790-6754 for more information. ELEANOR CHARLES

CORRECTION-DATE: August 25, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Guide column last Sunday about the "Back at the Ranch" concert in Montauk, held last Monday, carried an outdated reference to a beneficiary of the event. The Retreat, a shelter and counseling service for victims of domestic violence, declined funds from the concert because a performer, the singer James Brown, has been accused of assaulting his wife.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Howard Hochman and Gwen Nagy checking lynx kitten.; Bell, a river otter, frolics at Norwalk's Marine Aquarium. (Dave Sigworth/The Marine Aquarium)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2341 WOMEN'S, MISSES', CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR (60%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (53%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WARNACO INC (60%); YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT INC (53%); WETHERSFIELD HISTORICAL SOCIETY (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: WETHERSFIELD HISTORICAL SOCIETY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (94%); CATS (90%); WILD CATS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FISHES (88%); EXHIBITIONS (86%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); LINGERIE (66%); LINGERIE MFG (64%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (58%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (58%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



434 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Mystery Men;
Why the Choice of '96 Will Remain a Bafflement

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO

 BODY:
BOB DOLE'S fellow Republicans extolled him last week as a man of convictions rooted in the sturdy heartland of America. He presented himself to the convention that nominated him (and the electorate to which he was appealing) as the champion who could restore to government old values like "restraint, honor and trust in the people."
He depicted the Clinton Administration as a crew "who never grew up, never did anything real, never sacrificed, never suffered and never learned." 
 It was that contrast in values and in personal history that the Republicans sought to emphasize in San Diego last week, almost completely avoiding public discussions of their highly conservative platform and indeed giving no substantial clues, except on economic matters, as to how a Dole Administration would act.
In fact, Americans are not likely to emerge with any reliable programmatic road maps from convention month, which also includes the concluding sessions of Ross Perot's Reform Party conclave in Valley Forge, Pa., this weekend and the Democratic convention in Chicago opening a week from Monday. Few politicians are willing to commit themselves in advance to more than a few specific policy initiatives, for fear that they will lose support, and Messrs. Clinton, Dole and Perot, specialists all in the soaring generalization, are harder to pin down than most.
All of them, Mr. Dole and Mr. Clinton especially, are creatures of their times, and these times are the heyday of the pollster and the focus-group interviewer. Positions are formulated, modified, even reversed to fit the changing attitudes of voters. Pragmatism is king, and candidates learn quickly to play the chameleon.
The Religious Right may have dominated the platform committee and indeed the floor of the Republican convention, but its message was not the one that was seen on TV and its message is not the one Mr. Dole and his running mate, Jack Kemp, will be taking on the road this fall. They do not wish to debate the Democrats on abortion, for example, because they know that the country sides with the Democrats, not the Republican social conservatives.
Likewise, President Clinton was quite prepared, when his hold on office seemed to be slipping, to turn hard to the right, start stealing the Republicans' rhetorical clothes and even sign a welfare bill his associates disliked. For electoral purposes, he is galloping off in pursuit of the majority.
In addition, each of this year's candidates has peculiarities of character and strategic circumstance that contribute to the confusion.
Normally, incumbent Presidents have a track record they can be expected to build upon in their second terms. But it is hard to find common threads in a record that includes retreat from Somalia and involvement in Bosnia, unavailing support for homosexuals in the military and the abandonment of Federal guarantees for the well-being of poor children.
More than ever as the campaign unfolds this autumn, the nation will be asking, Who is the real Bill Clinton? and probably finding only an echo for an answer. All the more so because he cannot run for a third term. That means the inventor of what he calls the "permanent campaign," which makes re-election the prime driving force in government, will have to find a new dynamic to push him forward. Friends suggest that if re-elected, his eye will shift to his place in history.
If so, what does that portend? Perhaps he will conclude that curbing the deficit is not so important after all, and take a second crack at large-scale health reform, or re-reform welfare. Perhaps, freed of political constraints and faced with the threat of renewed chaos in the Balkans, he might change his policy on Bosnia for the umpteenth time and leave American troops there after the deadline for withdrawal passes, conveniently after Election Day has come and gone.
The Republican ticket is surrounded by no less ambiguity. Mr. Dole had to tack to the right during the primaries to cope with Patrick J. Buchanan, and he had foisted upon him by the convention a less supple, less inclusive platform than he wanted. So he promptly disavowed it, saying he had not even bothered to read it. But words can be weapons, and the Democrats can be counted on to remind him of the more extreme elements in the platform.
Mr. Dole is a compromiser by trade, a legislative conciliator, and he defended that approach in accepting his nomination. He said months ago that he would remake himself a la Reagan if need be, and he has more or less done so. A fierce foe of supply-side economics most of his career, he now proclaims himself a supply-sider, and he has a supply-side running mate, Jack Kemp, who in his turn has flip-flopped with embarrassing speed on affirmative action and immigration, to bring himself into line with Mr. Dole.
It is impossible not to ask whether Mr. Dole really means to try to cut taxes and reduce the deficit and defend Social Security and some other entitlements, as he promised to do. He has believed for so long that it was not possible to do all three, and he will be pressed hard during the campaign to explain.
It is impossible, furthermore, not to wonder where he would end up on abortion if he occupied the Oval Office. For electoral purposes, he sought to downplay the whole issue, uttering the word once in passing in his prime-time speech and drawing no contrast between his own position and Mr. Clinton's. Mr. Clinton will make more of the matter in Chicago and on the campaign trail, of course, which will make it much harder for Mr. Dole to avoid.
If elected, would he push hard for a constitutional amendment outlawing abortion, as mandated by the party platform, to please his supporters on the right, as Mr. Clinton did, in mirror image, with gays in the military? Or would Mr. Dole concentrate on other matters and content himself with the nomination of judges opposed to abortion, trying to stay closer to the middle ground?
Foreign policy may not play much of a role in the campaign, unless major trouble breaks out in China, Bosnia or the Middle East. But even so, the voter who would like to know how he would deal with a post-Yeltsin Russia, a post-Deng China or a Bosnian blowup in December is unlikely to get very clear answers.
Nor is there much point in looking to Mr. Perot. As he has said repeatedly the last five years, he thinks the major parties have few solutions to the nation's problems. For his part, he continues to offer explanations of how he would go about looking for solutions rather than any concrete ideas. The voter seeking further elucidation is met mainly with aphorism and anecdote.
Beneath all this posturing and positioning, of course, there are genuine issues: how to cut entitlements without provoking a national chorus of outrage, how to increase productivity without increasing unemployment or underemployment and how to put welfare mothers to work when many lack any marketable skills or the education to obtain them quickly.
But they lend themselves poorly to dramatization in campaign commercials and sound bites, so don't expect Messrs. Dole, Clinton and Perot to draw any hard-and-fast blueprints for action in the weeks ahead.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Dole, center, during the Pledge of Allegiance at a veterans' memorial ceremony last week in San Diego. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); ABORTION (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEROT, ROSS BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1996



435 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: Off Their Marx;
If Right Is Center, Where Is Left?

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FREE-MARKET capitalism seems triumphant worldwide, the new consensus at the end of the century. So with President Clinton heading to his convention sounding like George Bush and Republicans now complaining about economic injustice, what's left of the left?
Well, it's regrouping, but with more vigor than conventional wisdom might allow. Its partisans warn of the dangers of elitist, utopian, one-issue politics and speak of a new commitment to organizational politics on a local level -- in the workplace, city council or neighborhood, where "real people" presumably live. 
 "The biggest mistake the left has made and continues to make is that it's fairly cut off from the currents of people's everyday life," says one of its new stalwarts, Jay Walljasper, an editor of the Utne Reader, a kind of Reader's Digest of the alternative press. "A lot of people might agree with the thinking of the left, but the vibe is that the left doesn't care about them, it's too intellectual, and instead goes off on crusades about identity politics and political correctness."
Today the goal of progressives -- as these more pragmatic leftists call themselves -- is to insure social justice and equality in a global economy dominated by multinational corporations, not governments. But how to do it, and how to overcome the elitist legacy of the past?
The collapse of the Soviet Union and the socialist alternative has pushed the world's politics to the right. Not only is Marx discredited, but everywhere, from Sweden to India, there has been a turn away from giantism and faith in government and its smothering bureaucracy as the best engine for economic development and social justice.
Even the welfare state envisioned by John Maynard Keynes, which fosters social safeguards in the free market, is in disrepair and may be irreparably broken. Social democracies like Sweden and Germany, which once seemed alternative models for the United States, are coming up against the limits of the state's ability to pay for social benefits in a globalized economy where a lack of competitiveness means the export of jobs.
"What's striking is that the left today really accepts the right's argument about the limitations of the state," says Francis Fukuyama of the Rand Corporation. "It's hard to find anyone who defends the idea of pursuing social equality through the power of the state."

 
 
Local and Global
 So the focus has shifted to local issues and global concerns, to non-governmental organizations and international environmental or feminist groups, aided by cheap communication on the Internet. But at the national level, as Mr. Fukuyama points out and the Democratic convention next week will surely demonstrate, the left is largely absent. (This is an irony, considering that "the left" as a label derives from national government; the term originally referred to the area where radical deputies sat in the post-revolutionary French assembly, as seen from the chairman's seat.)
Joel Rogers, leader of the leftist New Party, which has won some 100 local elections, mostly in the Midwest, said the left's new issues range from neighborhood topics like crime, schools and sustainable local jobs to the push for social fairness in access to health care, decent wages and a clean environment. The aim is to heal and recreate "civil society" on the local level, even if significant national power is for now out of reach.
With the American economy growing, real wages are declining for the non-college-educated workers who make up most of the workforce. Large factory towns -- where labor was easily unionized -- are being supplanted by smaller companies and branches scattered in suburbs and computerized, making it more difficult to lump workers into proletariat and boss.
But despite such practical obstacles to organization, Mr. Rogers, a University of Wisconsin professor, sees opportunity. "With this generation in economic decline, there's the largest potential market for progressive politics since the 1930's," he said. "But what the left in America needs and doesn't have is an electoral strategy," one that goes beyond waiting to see who the Democrats nominate. He said that is why in 1992 he founded the New Party, which claims 8,000 members.
Internationally, as Mr. Fukuyama points out, human-rights and leftist organizations mobilized to force the Mexican Government to moderate its response to the revolt of the indigenous people of Chiapas. But on traditional foreign-policy issues, the American left has surprisingly little to say, beyond a general opposition to American military intervention anywhere.
It has concentrated too much on racial and sexual politics, and too little on the general good, said Mr. Walljasper. "When the American worker was losing his or her birthright, a lot of the left was taken up with Central America," he said. "Community organizing doesn't offer the same glamour factor as dancing with the Sandinistas."
This inattention to local organizing and reluctance to touch the Communist-tainted issue of class in America "allows the Republicans, in an Orwellian way, to slam the Democrats as elitist," Mr. Walljasper said. "And it leaves the field open for the demagogy" of Patrick J. Buchanan and Ross Perot, who "connect with ordinary people" on issues that enrage them, like crime, wage stagnation and the heartlessness of big companies and global capital. Mr. Walljasper, a Midwesterner, said that during the Republican primary season it was Mr. Buchanan who spoke most effectively about the breakup of family farms and the environmental devastation wrought by corporate agriculture.
Trying to move away from so-called "identity" politics, which began with the black-power movement, many leftists are ambivalent about taking up racial issues. For their part, many blacks -- not to mention feminists -- fear losing the focus on group identity. Such differences of view recall those between the black-power and anti-war movements in the 1960's, when young whites were more concerned about Vietnam than Watts.
Daniel Yergin, who is finishing a book on this century's ideological and economic battle between the state and the marketplace, argues that the traditional left has lost much of its agenda. "The phrase 'free market' falls as easily from Clinton's lips as from Bush's," he says. "It's a hard time for those who are anti-market, so many people have turned away from economics to ethnic or gender studies to find some Marxist-like principles, and to fulfill the emotional yearning for opposition and idealism."
Others disagree. Katrina vanden Heuvel, editor of The Nation, who is trying to revive it as a mainstream magazine for left-wing debate, says the left is learning its lesson and focusing once again on economics.
The collapse of the Soviet model is a fake issue, she said, since the largest European socialist parties had repudiated it long before. More troubling are the problems European social democratic parties are experiencing in adapting to a changing world economy. It's not just the left struggling against corporate power these days, she suggests, but the state itself.
The American left has been liberated to think about new models, she said, and, like the American labor movement, is expanding after a period of decline.
"A left that puts falling wages and economic insecurity at the center has a chance to develop an alternative to the suffocating consensus that austerity is the future," Ms. vanden Heuvel said.
For Mr. Walljasper, the concentration on community, civil society and local politics stems from a new consensus that "small is beautiful," an idea originating in the environmental movement. It is an effort to restore the voluntary associations that Alexis de Tocqueville identified as emblematic of American democracy, but which are now in decline. The concentration on neighborhood is aided by the aging of a '60's generation that now owns property and raises children, and it dovetails with the conservative effort to devolve more power to states and localities.

 
 
Philosophical Strains
 There is no single theoretical foundation to replace Marx, but figures from Gandhi to Vaclav Havel and well-known feminists have been important in teaching that "the personal is also political," Mr. Walljasper said, and that societies can be reformed through many means. The politics of sexuality and identity are important, he argues, but they are "side dishes" to economics, the environment and human rights.
One paradox, notes Ian Hargreaves, editor of the New Statesman, Britain's best-known journal of the left, is that as the mainstream left moves to the center -- with Mr. Clinton in the White House and Tony Blair positioning the British Labor Party for its first turn in Government in 20 years -- "the Left with a capital 'L' doesn't want to know." The traditional left in Britain is so wrapped up in its own debates that it ignores Mr. Blair's proximity to real power, or disparages him for trying to become electable.
Mr. Clinton has been successful at economic conservatism while appealing to the cultural left wing of the party on issues like gay rights and abortion, but there is a constituency "for cultural rightism and economic populism," Mr. Fukuyama says, to which Mr. Buchanan, and not the left, has been appealing.
Mr. Fukuyama recently saw a billboard for a local television station that showed Fidel Castro on the left, Mr. Buchanan on the right, and a basketball player as the center. It is telling, he said, that "the guys who wrote the ad couldn't find an American politician who could symbolize the left."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An effective leftist is hard to find: a Zapatista rebel in front of a mural in Chiapas, Mexico. (Reuters) (pg. 1); In Berlin, a demonstrator protesting Germany's proposed welfare overhaul ducks the blast of a water cannon. (Associated Press) (pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (62%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); INDIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (62%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (56%); NEW PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); INDIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CORPORATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); TRENDS (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (65%); CITIES (55%); CITY GOVERNMENT (55%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1996



436 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By DAVID RAMPE 

 BODY:

CAMPAIGN '96
Promises, Promises
Bob Dole, at last the official Republican nominee, played that old theme song, promising to "get the economy moving again." In his acceptance speech, after discussing values like family and duty, he moved on to the good stuff: lower taxes, zippy growth, a balanced budget, lots more spending on the military, down with the I.R.S., up with the I.R.A. And one thing is sure: The White House in a Dole era wouldn't be populated by those lib kids at home there now, that boomer elite, as Mr. Dole said, "who never grew up, never did anything real, never sacrificed, never suffered and never learned." Not like their daddies.

INFLATION ALERT
What Blips Up Can Blip Down
Traders woke from a sleepy August week to panic briefly on a report of a blip in consumer prices. They were up three-tenths of a percentage point in July, lifting inflation for the past 12 months to a whopping 3 percent. That and a report of strong retail sales, suggesting a heated-up economy, sent interest rates higher and stocks lower. Later, the Federal Reserve restored the status quo, saying industrial production edged up a mere one-tenth of a point in July, the smallest amount in four months. And new housing construction fell to the slowest level in four months. All that allowed traders to sneak off for their Friday golf dates. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the week about where it began, at 5,689.45 points, up 8 points.
 
BUY AND HOLD DEPT.
Buffett Is It
Warren Buffett is America's second-richest man, in fact the world's second-richest man, according to Forbes magazine, which is to the super-rich what People magazine is to Gwyneth Paltrow and Matthew McConaughey. (The wealthiest individual, of course, is that Microsoft fellow out West who defined geek chic.) When Forbes checked in last month, Mr. Buffett had added $4.6 billion to his net worth in the last year, or $125,000 a day, every day of the year, including Feb. 29. But even brilliant stock-pickers suffer reversals. The shares of his investment vehicle Berkshire Hathaway have fallen 14 percent since their high in March, and earnings slipped in the second quarter. Perhaps the market agreed with Mr. Buffett's candid assessment in Berkshire's annual report that the company's market price had grown even faster than its intrinsic value. The stock won big on a doubling in Coca-Cola's stock price. (Berkshire's Coca-Cola shares are now worth $10 billion, or 42 percent of its stock holdings.) Even if Coke's big run is over, Mr. Buffett's composure isn't likely to suffer. When he buys, he typically holds, and then holds some more.

ENGLISH 101
And Watch Your P's and Q's
Suffolk County, on eastern Long Island, is going to vote on a measure to pick an official language, deciding that would insure economic advancement. It follows the lead of 23 states and 15 cities that have picked an official language. But the vote will not be a multiple choice -- a) Chinese, b) Farsi, c) English. Actually, that choice was already made by county legislators. One said, "If people want to partake of the American dream they have to know the language." Opponents say the county is overreacting to the 1.2 percent of its population of Hispanic origin who speak limited or no English. Whether or not the measure is the right dose of medicine, it is true that people "who know English do a lot better in their earnings and employment," said George Borjas, professor of public policy at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.
 
PICKING UP ROOTS
Where Exactly Is Wall St.?
If the Big Board moves off Wall Street, what becomes of Wall Street? Perhaps it doesn't matter, because the street is less an address than a metaphor, like Detroit, which people refer to as the focus of the automobile universe even while car plants spring up in Kentucky. Still, the idea of Wall Street without the New York Stock Exchange takes some getting used to. The exchange, which has been at 11 Wall since 1903, is beginning to cast about for bigger quarters to accommodate a much-enlarged trading floor for the electronic era. It intends to stay somewhere in Manhattan, though not necessarily downtown. Tough luck, Jersey City.
 
BROWSER WARS
And in This Corner . . .
Compared to Netscape, Microsoft is in the uncharacteristic role of underdog, a position it does not want to get used to. The Netscape Navigator Internet browser is used by more than 85 percent of computer users for viewing pages on the World Wide Web. Microsoft is rushing to catch up with its Explorer browser, and the marketing war has begun. Microsoft's new version, available free on the Net, gives away subscriptions through Dec. 31 to the Wall Street Journal Interactive Edition, which normally costs $49 a year, and to the ESPNet Sportszone, which usually charges a la carte. "If you look at how Microsoft built their franchise in operating systems, it was by adding applications and locking people in," said David Smith of the Gartner Group. "Now content is the application."
 
MEDICAL SCHOOLS
Tune In, Drop Out
Medical students pay much money to attend Cornell University Medical College -- except when Cornell pays them to stay out. Granted, it's a cockeyed arrangement, but Cornell somehow overbooked the incoming class by 15 percent. That forced the school to offer a one-time-only sale -- a tuition-free year, worth $24,000. It is available to doctors-in-waiting willing to put off enrollment a year. A few signed up, but others, ever rational, figured that even a big discount was outweighed by the loss of a year's future earnings, and that's real money in a most lucrative profession. While Cornell and other schools are bulging, some specialists say American schools are turning out too many doctors.

MUTUAL FUNDS
A Marketing Advantage
Fidelity Investments intends to set up an insurance company to protect investors in its money market mutual funds in case of default by any of the security issuers. It would provide coverage of up to $100 million, a relatively small amount in light of Fidelity's $80 billion of assets. But that could be enough to give the company a big marketing advantage.
 
TECHNOLOGY
A Star Dims
Hewlett-Packard fulfilled predictions of a down quarter, ending years of above-average growth that made it one of the country's most-admired companies. Earnings fell 26 percent in the second quarter, and the company said some of its profit constraints could continue. "Our PC growth continues at or above the industry growth rate," Hewlett said. "But it is slower than when we were rapidly gaining market share." But Dell Computer, another technology leader, surpassed expectations, with earnings growing 58 percent. It enjoyed strong sales and lower chip prices.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A report in the Business Diary column on Aug. 18 about the market performance of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the investment vehicle of Warren E. Buffett, misstated the estimated daily increase in his net worth in the last year. It was $12.5 million a day, not $125,000.

GRAPHIC: Graphs show percent change in consumer prices and stock price of Hewlett-Packard. (Sources: Commerce Department; Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (54%); BRK.A (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); KO (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (54%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); CONSTRUCTION (65%); RETAIL SALES (52%); INTEREST RATES (52%); 

PERSON: RAMPE, DAVID WARREN BUFFETT (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



437 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 18, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 37; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: In Defense of Federal Power;
Big Government Is a Check

BYLINE: By Alan Brinkley; Alan Brinkley, a professor of American history at Columbia, is the author most recently of "The End of Reform: New Deal Liberalism in Recession and War."

 BODY:
All the sound-bite superficiality of the television campaign notwithstanding, a profoundly serious debate is under way in America this season. It turns on dozens of proposed constitutional amendments and laws to radically reshape our system of Government. These two essays are part of a series of "New Federalist Papers" commissioned by Richard C. Leone of the Twentieth Century Fund for a forthcoming book on what is probably the broadest challenge to the Constitution since its ratification in 1789.
 
THE CRIPPLING OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS ALREADY far advanced. The fiscal crisis of the last 15 years, in which both Republicans and Democrats have been complicit, has placed a financial straitjacket (deplored by some, quietly welcomed by others) on both the President and the Congress. The Clinton Administration found itself a prisoner of the deficit almost from the beginning. Public investment, the Administration's original proposals for health care and welfare reform and other initiatives were all its victims. The Republican Congress, ideologically committed to scaling back Government, has found the deficit its greatest ally in that effort.
But the assault on Government has moved far beyond the effects of the nation's fiscal torpor. A list of some of the changes on the conservative agenda last year suggests the scope of the threat: 
 * The balanced budget amendment failed twice, but it will surely rise again. If enacted, it would institutionalize what is already an informal brake on Government action by subordinating all public efforts to eliminate the deficit. Constitutional amendments are dangerous tools for establishing policy priorities. A constitutionally mandated balanced budget would dramatically weaken the Government's ability to promote prosperity and growth.
* Term limits, rejected by Congress last spring, are also likely to emerge again in the form of a constitutional amendment. Term limits would insure a consistently inexperienced Congress unlikely to counter the power of the President effectively and prey -- even more than today's legislature -- to the influence of special interests.
* Requiring supermajorities in both Houses of Congress for passage of certain legislation is another part of the anti-Government agenda. The Senate already, in effect, requires a 60 percent vote on most important bills now that party leaders have made the filibuster (for the first time in our history) a routine legislative tactic. The new House rule to require a 60 percent majority for tax increases would, if enforced, virtually insure the defeat of any measure, however vital, to increase Government revenues.
* Eliminating unfunded mandates, a process begun by legislation passed last year would, if taken to the lengths many conservatives are urging, destroy the most important form of leverage the Federal Government has over state and local authorities. Washington manages very few programs directly: almost everything it finances is administered to some degree by other levels of government, usually according to guidelines established by Congress or the Federal agencies. Some such guidelines are surely ineffective and counterproductive. But there is a critical difference between eliminating bad guidelines and eliminating the Government's ability to establish any guidelines at all.
* The Supreme Court has already edged toward restoring long-repudiated limitations on the ability of the Federal Government to act. Last year, it overturned legislation banning guns in the vicinity of schools; now it may be one vote away not just from changing course on such emotionally charged issues as abortion and affirmative action but from fundamentally redefining the limits of Federal power in a way that could undo decades of social and economic policy.
Taken together, these measures and other state-crippling initiatives threaten to leave the Federal Government so enfeebled that it would have little power to manage the economy, address social problems, protect the environment or do any of the other things most Americans have come to expect it to do. The current proposed reforms would move the United States toward becoming a Balkanized republic, with 50 semiautonomous governments. They would increase, not reduce, the number of bureaucracies with which citizens would have to deal and accentuate the regional, economic, religious, ethnic and racial differences that already divide us.
What, in fact, has been the principal concern of state governments in recent years? It has not, for the most part, been building better social programs; it has been competing with other states to attract jobs. So far, that has meant mostly various kinds of tax credits and job-training assistance. But without national standards that competition would quickly escalate into other realms: relaxing or abandoning environmental regulations, rolling back health and safety protections for workers, restricting the power of trade unions to organize, reducing taxes by eliminating social services to the poor.
At the heart of the debate is, of course, the question of where power should lie in a democratic society. Conservatives like to claim that they are trying to return power to the people themselves, a promise that resonates with one of America's oldest and most powerful political traditions: populism. But reducing the power of Government is not by itself a route to empowering ordinary citizens. Modern society has many centers of concentrated power, of which the Government is only one and not always the most important. The large interests that shape our world are more numerous and more powerful even than those the populists of the late 19th century decried: corporate bureaucracies, the great institutions of the media, banks and financial institutions, trade associations and lobbying groups, and many others. None of them have much accountability to individual citizens.
Far from restoring power to individuals, disempowering the Federal Government will do precisely the opposite. It will weaken the only national institution capable of checking some of the other large organizations that dominate modern life. It will leave individuals with even less control over their own fates. It is not the route to more democracy. It is the route to less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (57%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (57%); TWENTIETH CENTURY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TERM LIMITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FILIBUSTER (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, ALAN (PROF) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996



438 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
A British agency gets the Sebastiani account, while a French one expands in Mexico and Brazil.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
TWO agencies, one based in Britain and the other in France, are making news in North and South America.
The San Francisco office of the British agency Leagas Delaney has been awarded its first assignment separate from the accounts of its parent. And Publicis S.A. in Paris is acquiring controlling interests in agencies in Mexico and Brazil, as part of ambitious expansion plans that follow the termination of a worldwide cooperative agreement with True North Communications. 
 At the San Francisco office of Leagas Delaney, which was opened in March, the new assignment came from Sebastiani Vineyards, the winery in Sonoma, Calif. Sebastiani has named the office as the first agency to handle its account, with billings estimated at $5 million.
Jack Rooney, managing director of the agency's San Francisco office, said in a telephone interview on Friday that Leagas Delaney was selected by Sebastiani after a review that also included three undisclosed San Francisco agencies. The assignment brings billings handled by the office to an estimated $25 million, he added.
The San Francisco office will create campaigns for two lines of varietal wines produced by Sebastiani: Talus, priced at $5.99 to $8.99 a bottle, and Vendange, priced at $5.99 and below.
The San Francisco office is also continuing to work for two clients of its parent, which is based in London: Adidas A.G. and Patek Phillipe. An American broadcast, print and outdoor campaign for Adidas, carrying the theme "Feet you wear," is now being introduced.
As for the agreements Publicis has reached with the agencies in Mexico and Brazil, terms are not being disclosed. The Mexican transaction was announced late Friday and details of the Brazilian deal are scheduled to be outlined this afternoon in that country.
In Mexico, Publicis Group, the advertising agency unit of Publicis S.A., is buying 51 percent of Romero y Asociados in Mexico City. That agency has billings estimated at $10 million from clients like Nestle S.A., also a Publicis Group client; Kimberly-Clark and Reckitt & Colman.
Carlos Romero Hidalgo continues as chairman and chief executive of Romero, which was founded in 1951. The agency will get a new name, Publicis-Romero.
In Brazil, Publicis Group is buying 60 percent of Norton Publicidade, with billings estimated at more than $100 million from clients like Nestle, Wal-Mart Stores and General Electric and offices in Brasilia, Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo; the agency also has an office in Paris.
Geraldo Alonso Filho continues as president and chief executive of Norton, which was founded in 1946. The agency, Brazil's 12th largest, will be renamed Publicis-Norton.
In a memo to employees, Maurice Levy, chairman and chief executive of Publicis, said, "These acquisitions represent an important stage in our geographic development through our presence in the most populous and most economically promising countries in the Americas."
"Publicis's route to globalization is now clearly open," he added.
Publicis Group has offices in 58 cities in 21 European countries and owns Publicis/Bloom in the United States. Publicis Group is also collaborating on an ad hoc basis with the M & C Saatchi Agency in London, assisting that shop on the British Airways account.
"These are the concrete steps of autonomous international development following the end of our international development alliance with True North," said Seth Goldschlager, a spokesman for Publicis S.A. in Paris.
That reference was to decisions by Publicis S.A. and True North, which is based in Chicago, to terminate the agreement binding them to cooperate worldwide. But the two remain partners in Publicis FCB Europe, a joint-venture European agency network that covers 31 countries.
In June, members of the board of True North formed a special committee to try to resolve a rancorous two-year dispute between Mr. Levy and Bruce Mason, chairman and chief executive of True North, which led to the termination of the alliance. The two executives have argued over the management of the joint venture and policies on acquisitions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (90%); PUB (PAR) (88%); ADS (FRA) (82%); NESN (SWX) (81%); KMB (NYSE) (52%); WMT (NYSE) (51%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (90%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (88%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (88%); NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (82%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (82%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (81%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (96%); MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (93%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: LEAGAS DELANEY (CO); PUBLICIS SA INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (90%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (88%); ADIDAS AG (82%); NESTLE SA (81%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (52%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); PUBLICIS GROUP (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEAGAS DELANEY (CO); PUBLICIS SA PUBLICIS GROUP (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; MEXICO; BRAZIL; BRAZIL (96%); MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (93%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); WINE (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART MAURICE LEVY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



439 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Louis Berger, 82, Who Built Engineering Concern

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
Dr. Louis Berger, an engineer whose expertise in soil conditions enabled him to build highways and even airport runways effectively on soft ground, died in Manhattan on Wednesday after a short illness. He was 82 and lived in Delray Beach, Fla., and Verona, N.J.
The cause was congestive heart failure, according to the Berger Group, the company he still headed at his death. 
 Dr. Berger, known to most as "Doc," founded the company in 1953 and built it into a huge engineering, economics and environmental planning concern that employs almost 3,000 people in more than 70 countries.
Dr. Berger's professional success stands in sharp contrast to his modest beginnings. He was born in 1914 and raised, with three brothers and a sister, in Lawrence, Mass., where his father had a small glazing business. Money was so tight that he missed two terms of college because he was $100 short of tuition.
Still, he graduated from Tufts College in 1936, with a degree in civil engineering. He went on to receive a master's in soils and geology from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 1940, he took his first job, supervising construction of two large dams in southern Illinois.
In 1942, during World War II, Mr. Berger joined the United States Coast Guard, first designing waterfront facilities along the Mississippi and later commanding a Coast Guard base in Greenland.
When he returned from active duty, he went on for a doctorate in soil mechanics from Northwestern University and then joined the engineering faculty at Pennsylvania State University. In 1952, Dr. Berger gave up his professorship and opened his first consulting office, in Harrisburg, Pa. His first big assignment was to design part of the Pennsylvania Turnpike, the first turnpike in the United States.
A year later, he opened a second office and began chasing international as well as domestic clients, often training local people to work with him. Since then, the Berger Group, which is based in East Orange, N.J., has been involved in the design, planning and construction management of more than 100,000 miles of highway, 2,000 miles of railroad, and numerous bridges, airfields and other projects in some 120 countries.
He helped design the Rangoon-to-Mandalay Road in Burma, the 2,000-mile Trans-Amazon Highway and the Ovda air base in Israel. He saved the Navy more than $100 million by finding a way to use locally available stone to build a runway at U Taphao, Thailand, the largest military base in Southeast Asia.
Dr. Berger bowed out of the formal management of his company in the 1980's, but never stopped working on projects. In recent years he helped create a complex computerized design system, and supervised the building of the Second Bangkok International Airport.
Louis Berger is survived by his wife, the former Annette Block; two children from a previous marriage, Fredric Steven Berger of Chevy Chase, Md., and Jane Tallents Stonborough of London; two brothers, Samuel, of Stoughton, Mass., and Abraham, of Glendora, Calif.; a sister, Miriam Cohen of Israel; three stepchildren, and two stepgrandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GREENLAND (79%); MYANMAR (79%); ISRAEL (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (68%); US COAST GUARD (72%); US COAST GUARD (72%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (72%); US COAST GUARD (72%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GREENLAND (79%); MYANMAR (79%); ISRAEL (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); HARRISBURG, PA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); ENGINEERING (91%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); MILITARY BASES (86%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (78%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); TUITION FEES (73%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%); MARRIAGE (61%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (57%); 

PERSON: BERGER, LOUIS FREDRIC STEVEN BERGER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



440 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Trends Show U.S. Falls As Others Rise

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18

 BODY:
Unemployment in the United States has dropped by almost half in the last 15 years while in Japan, Germany and other competing countries jobless claims have risen, with little sign of improvement.
The long-term trends emerge from detailed figures that the Labor Department has just published, covering the last third of the century. 
 American joblessness peaked at 9.7 percent in 1982, the second year of the Reagan Administration. It declined steadily for the next seven years, then rose again to 7.5 percent in 1992, the year Bill Clinton was elected President. Then it dropped again, falling to 5.4 percent in July.
Through the 1960's and early 1970's, Japan kept its unemployment rate at less than 2 percent, breaking that barrier only in 1976. A steady rise in the next two decades pushed it to more than 3.5 percent this year.
France and West Germany also had histories of low unemployment in the 1960's and early 1970's. But in 1975, West German unemployment more than doubled, to 3.4 percent. In France there was also a sharp rise, to 4.2 percent from 2.9 percent.
Since then West Germany's rise has continued, reaching 6.5 percent last year. That percentage does not include the former East Germany, which has been united with West Germany throughout the 1990's. German Government figures show the same trend for the united country.
French unemployment reached 11.5 percent last year and Italy's 12 percent -- more than twice the American rate. Figures for Japan, Germany, France and Italy have continued to edge up in 1996.
Britain's joblessness peaked at 11.8 percent 1983 and has since dropped, but only to 8.3 percent.
John Howard, director of international policy and programs for the United States Chamber of Commerce, saw the difference in trends as a sign of economic strength. But Mark Anderson, director of international trade for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., argued that "There's a different focus of the government, especially in France, Germany and Italy. They focus more on a fairer distribution of income and not on throwing someone on the street to work for whatever wage he or she can get."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (90%); ITALY (90%); 

COMPANY: THE LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN LTD (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; ITALY; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (90%); ITALY (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); TRENDS (91%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); JOHN HOWARD (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



441 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: Storm in St. Kitts, as a Cocaine Case Churns Politics

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BASSETERRE, St. Kitts and Nevis, Aug. 15

 BODY:
It started with a large shipment of cocaine into this tiny Caribbean country two years ago. The resulting scandal helped bring down one government, which was criticized for having done too little to combat drug trafficking, and now threatens another, which is suddenly under attack for supposedly having done too much.
Several people, among them two sons of a former Deputy Prime Minister, have been arrested in the case and accused of working with Colombian cartels to ship cocaine to the United States. As a result, Washington recently requested the extradition of three of the accused drug traffickers, who have begun a legal and political counteroffensive in an effort to remain here. 
 The case is proving a severe test for the 46,000 people of this sleepy federation of two islands, the smallest nation in the Western Hemisphere, 250 miles southeast of Puerto Rico. Though politics here normally focus on matters related to tourism and agriculture, drugs have now become "the main issue in this country," Prime Minister Denzil L. Douglas, who took office a little more than a year ago, said in an interview.
The criminal charges and the political crisis stem from a shipment of cocaine into St. Kitts in September 1994 that resulted in the killing of one son of the Deputy Prime Minister at the time, Sidney Morris, and the arrest of two others. The ensuing controversy forced Mr. Morris to resign and led the governing People's Action Movement to call early elections.
In that July 1995 balloting, Prime Minister Kennedy Simmonds, who had led this country since independence from Britain was achieved in 1983, went down to defeat. He was replaced by the opposition St. Kitts Labor Party, whose platform promised "a government truly committed to fighting the scourge of crime and drugs that has overtaken our country" and greater cooperation with the United States.
The new administration's determination to take a tougher stance against drug trafficking has won the praise of American and British officials. "They're trying to do the right thing, and need all the support they can get from the United States and other interested parties," said a diplomat in the region.
But cooperation with the United States has brought with it a high political and economic cost, especially on the extradition question. "We've been criticized by the opposition, which argues that we would be violating the sovereignty of this country by giving up our citizens to the United States," Mr. Douglas said. As in other Caribbean island countries that have gained independence from Britain in recent years, any action viewed as a cession of sovereignty is controversial here.
In late May, the United States Justice Department charged Charles Miller, Glenroy Matthew, Clifford Henry, and Noel Heath with conspiracy to smuggle cocaine from St. Kitts to the United States. Mr. Henry was arrested in Miami; the other three are free on bail here in connection with related local charges, but neither they nor their lawyer responded to requests for comment on the case.
Since extradition papers were filed, there have been periodic demonstrations against the Government's decision to go ahead with proceedings despite the absence of a bilateral extradition treaty with the United States. Many of those involved have been neighbors of the accused men or beneficiaries of their largess, a law-enforcement official said. Officials and diplomats said there is evidence to suggest the accused men have helped organize and pay for the protests.
St. Kitts has also been swept by rumors that the accused drug traffickers, perhaps with a mind to carry out a coup, are secretly training a private army, an idea Mr. Douglas derided. "I have no notion at all that a private militia is being established," he said. "This country is too small," at 104 square miles, for such an activity to go undetected.
Because of its small size, St. Kitts and Nevis has not generally been used as a transit point for air shipments of cocaine from Colombia. Rather, local agents of the cartels have used the islands' territorial waters as a gateway to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, a route that has recently regained importance as a result of quarrels between Colombian and Mexican traffickers.
Mustering the political will to stand up to drug trafficking cartels has proven difficult even in large Latin American countries like Colombia and Mexico. But, as one diplomat in the region put it, "The very size of these small Caribbean countries is a factor in the ability of their police forces and their coast guards to go up against the resources the cartels have."
Government officials here, for instance, estimate the local extradition proceeding will cost them at least $250,000 in legal fees, since the Attorney General's Office has no lawyer on its staff with expertise in that area and has had to seek outside counsel. In contrast, the Attorney General's entire budget for this year is $340,000, according to Government documents.
An official here said the United States has made a commitment "to assist, and although we have not seen the money yet, I think we will."
Also, the country's police force has only 325 officers. Some police officials have reportedly been threatened by accused drug traffickers, and some local residents, all of whom insisted on not being identified, say the drug traffickers have encouraged members of their own organizations to enroll in training programs intended to beef up the force.

GRAPHIC: Maps shows the location of St. Kitts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (95%); COLOMBIA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: ST KITTS LABOR PARTY (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST KITTS LABOR PARTY (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ST KITTS; COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES (98%); SAINT KITTS & NEVIS (95%); COLOMBIA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%); MIAMI, FL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EXTRADITION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS DRUG TRAFFICKING (93%); COCAINE (93%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ARRESTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); SCANDALS (78%); CONSPIRACY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CARTELS (71%); BAIL (71%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; MORRIS, SIDNEY (DEPUTY PRIME MIN) DENZIL L DOUGLAS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



442 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Western Power Blackout Underlines System Flaws
As a handful of electrical lines in southern Oregon sagged in the summer heat and shut down this month, blacking out power to more than four million people in nine Western states, engineers at the Federal Power Authority in Oregon neglected to make a brief call. 
 The momentary lack of coordination between big utility companies led to the second major voltage collapse in six weeks and offered a warning about the vulnerabilities of a system moving quickly toward deregulation and competition. [Page A14.]
 
9-Letter Word for Puzzle Makers
Puzzlers, take note: The biggest clue to doing crosswords in the 90's may be a nine-letter word that starts with a "C" -- computers. Computer-generated puzzles are expanding the crossword business, and individual puzzle writers have developed sophisticated programs. [D9.]

Editor Leaves Advocate Magazine
Jeff Yarbrough, who served for four years as editor in chief of The Advocate, has left the gay news magazine. Word in the industry has it that Mr. Yarbrough was discharged, but Mr. Yarbrough said he resigned. [D9.]

Cost Cuts Aimed at Nurses As New York hospitals scramble to trim expenses to survive in the world of managed care, they have begun trying to rein in their biggest single expense: their nursing staffs. Between February 1995 and 1996, 1,316 nursing jobs, or 3 percent, were lost, said the Greater New York Hospital Association -- the first decrease in more than a decade. [B1.]

2 Agencies Show Growth
The San Francisco office of a British ad agency, Leagas Delaney, has won its first assignment separate from the accounts of its parent. And Publicis S.A. in Paris is acquiring controlling interests in agencies in Mexico and Brazil, as part of ambitious expansion plans that follow the end of a worldwide cooperative agreement with True North Communications. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D8.]

Growing Appetite for TV Stations
A change in the Government's rules on television-station ownership has spurred a ferocious race among broadcasters to lock up as many stations as possible. The appetite for expansion has been particularly intense among companies with the largest stakes in television programming: the networks, particularly NBC and Fox. [D10.]

Whole Earth Review Seeks Help
One survival tactic that would almost surely never occur to a big magazine company like Conde Nast is to canvass subscribers for contributions. The Whole Earth Review wrote to "subscribers and friends," asking for feedback and help in raising $600,000. Robin Pogrebin: Publishing. [D9.]

Looking at the Limits of Science
With the millennium gaining attention, two new books, "The End of Science" and "Why Things Bite Back," take a sober view of technological promise and scientific exploration. They seem subsumed by a tragic realism. Edward Rothstein: Technology. [D5.]

Unemployment Reversals
Unemployment in the United States has dropped by almost half in the last 15 years while jobless rates in Japan, Germany and other competing countries have risen. [D2.]
 
Do It Yourself on the Web
The do-it-yourself craze has hit the World Wide Web. Home-improvement suppliers are beginning to appear on the Internet; popular home-improvement television shows are already established. Taking In the Sites. [D4.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow Industrials -- 5,689.45 Up 8.14
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.79% Up 0.07
The Dollar -- 107.70 yen Down 0.54

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (54%); PUB (PAR) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (54%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); OREGON, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); POWER FAILURES (91%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); WRITERS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); HOSPITALS (71%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); STOCK INDEXES (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: JEFF YARBROUGH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



443 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: Election-Year Posturing on Drugs

 BODY:
Elections invariably bring political maneuvers to help politicians look tough on drugs. This year is no exception. President Clinton has asked Congress for a 67 percent increase in American financial support for Latin American counternarcotics programs. By a close vote, the Senate recently agreed, paying for part of the $92 million increase by transferring $53 million that had been designated to aid the world's poorest citizens. The shift is doubly shameful, and should be reversed.
What could be tougher on cocaine than fighting Latin American drug trafficking? Almost anything, and the Senate and the President know it. The Senate has long been skeptical of counternarcotics efforts in Colombia, Peru and Bolivia. The President's drug czar, Gen. Barry McCaffrey, has said American counternarcotics programs in the Andes have not made a difference and called for new ideas. 
 Since President Bush declared war on drugs seven years ago, the United States has spent at least $1.5 billion on efforts to wipe out cocaine at its Andean source. The program has supported some of Latin America's most brutal police and militaries, although it has improved in recent years by emphasizing police over military efforts. But it has not dented the flow of cocaine. Since 1989 the amount of coca under cultivation has increased. There is no indication that the cocaine supply in the United States has decreased. On America's streets, the price of cocaine is lower, and its purity higher, than when the war began.
After the United States had spent more than half a billion dollars in seven years to fight drugs in Colombia, President Clinton announced this March he could not certify that Colombia was cooperating effectively with American counternarcotics efforts. The drug trade is so profitable and so mobile that the only solution lies in better treatment and policing in America.
The amendment to transfer the $53 million, sponsored by Senator Paul Coverdell, a Georgia Republican, provides gravy for counternarcotics efforts abroad, which had already been given the biggest increase of any foreign program.
The Coverdell cuts come in two valuable programs for helping the world's poor, which have already taken large recent reductions. A $25 million decrease would trim aid to the United Nations Children's Fund and the U.N. Development Program, among other things. A $28 million cut would come from development efforts, such as child-nutrition and family-planning programs.
Politicians who want credit for doing something about drugs should put more money into programs that work in America. They should also reverse the Coverdell amendment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: AFG (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); PERU (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); 

STATE: ANDES (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (58%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (99%); COLOMBIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); PERU (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ANDES (56%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION COCAINE (92%); DRUG POLICY (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DRUG INTERDICTION (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); POLITICS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); CHILDREN (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); FAMILY PLANNING (50%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: COVERDELL, PAUL (SEN) BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



444 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1748 words

HEADLINE: Once in Big Demand, Nurses Are Targets for Hospital Cuts

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
As New York hospitals frantically cut costs to survive in the world of managed care, they have begun trying to rein in their biggest single expense: their nursing staffs.
Five years ago, during a severe nursing shortage, jobs were plentiful, signing bonuses were common, and union contracts were doubling nurses' starting salaries at many hospitals to more than $50,000 in just two years. 
 But today the newly powerful health maintenance organizations are demanding shorter hospital stays and paying hospitals discounted rates, putting stress on budgets. And hospitals that once fought one another to attract nurses now see their large nursing staffs as costly burdens.
In the name of greater efficiency, most hospitals today are seeking to reduce, or "consolidate," their nursing staffs. Some are offering buyouts and early retirement plans. Many, most notably public hospitals, have exhausted those avenues and have turned to layoffs.
"Hospitals are under pressure from managed care to reduce costs, and they are looking at nurses as their highest cost line item," said Howard Berliner, professor of health policy at the New School for Social Research, who predicted that nursing layoffs would "greatly accelerate" this year.
From February 1995 to February 1996, 1,316 nursing jobs, 3 percent of the total, were lost in the New York area, according to the Greater New York Hospital Association, an industry group. It was the first decrease in more than a decade.
Since the number of hospital patients dropped 8 percent that year and many nurses moved to outpatient clinics, the effect of the changes on the ratio of nurses to patients in any given ward is difficult to determine, the hospital association said. And the hospitals insist that care is not being compromised in their quest for greater efficiency.
But many nurses say the reductions have hurt the care patients receive. They complain that the remaining nurses are overworked: a floor that previously had four nurses might now have three, with a nursing technician newly hired to perform tasks like taking temperatures or cardiograms. They also express concern that the technicians, who may have as little as a few weeks of training, are not always up to their new tasks. At Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, 1,500 nurses staged a one-day strike last month to protest the hiring of technicians.
"There has definitely been a decline in quality from right-sizing, downsizing, streamlining -- whatever you want to call it," said Marva Wade, an operating room nurse at Mount Sinai Medical Center and the president of the New York State Nurses' Association, the state's largest nurses' union. "There are fewer of us here, so patients may have to wait longer for a pain medication, or it may take longer for a patient's problem to be noticed."
Hospitals say such complaints are predictable as nurses adjust to a new way of doing business. "This is a new way of delivering health care, and it may be difficult for some nurses to deal with that," said Peggy McNally of the Greater New York Hospital Association. "Maybe they know someone who has been laid off and they're adjusting."
A number of doctors and experts on the health care industry say pressure from managed care will inevitably reduce the number of nurses here, as it has in other parts of the country. But they say that the current downsizing has been far too fast and chaotic, in part because the rapid growth of managed care has taken hospitals by surprise, and because union contracts and civil service rules -- rather than health care needs -- have determined which nurses leave.
Some hospital departments have lost large numbers of trained nurses overnight, nurses say. And in the reshuffling that follows each buyout or layoff, nurses are often transferred from, say, surgical floors to psychiatric units, or from emergency rooms to delivery floors, with little training in between.
"There is this attitude that a nurse is a nurse is a nurse," said Ms. Wade, "but the health system has demanded that we be very specialized."
At Harlem Hospital, 40 out of 230 intensive care nurses lost their jobs at the end of June, resulting in an immediate shortage of nurses experienced in taking care of the sickest patients. Doctors at the hospital were so concerned that they joined the doctors' union, community groups and local politicians, including Representative Charles B. Rangel, in seeking a court order barring the layoffs.
"You can't just lay off 40 special-care nurses and expect care to continue as usual," said Dr. John Herbert, the hospital's director of anesthesia and president of its medical board.
The judge ruled that she could not prevent the dismissals, but she encouraged the Health and Hospitals Corporation, which runs the city's public hospitals, to pay for outside intensive care nurses until Harlem Hospital had time to train more of its own nurses to work in intensive care. The hospital agreed, and an immediate crisis was averted.
Nursing cutbacks have been particularly striking in public hospitals, which laid off 562 nurses at the end of June, a move that the hospitals corporation ascribed to a declining patient population but that also helped close a projected $550 million budget gap at the corporation for the current fiscal year.
Private hospitals are looking to reduce nursing staffs as well, in part because they, too, have suffered from a sharp decline in Medicaid rates and are trying to lower their costs to be more attractive to H.M.O.'s.
St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center has laid off more than 100 nurses in the last two years. The administration at Flushing Hospital had planned layoffs earlier this year but averted them when the nurses agreed to reduced hours and a buyout. Mount Sinai Hospital has offered more than 100 nurses early retirement.
While there have been relatively few outright layoffs in the private sector, many hospitals are cutting nursing staffs through attrition, said Barry Waldman, a spokesman for the New York State Nurses' Association. Although the union has organized several new hospitals in the last 12 months, its membership is actually down, to 34,500, compared with 36,000 a year ago.
Hospital administrators, doctors and nurses disagree on whether the recent changes have affected patient care. The administrators say that with fewer people receiving inpatient care they are merely redeploying nurses to better meet patients' needs and that nursing technicians should be able to take up the slack. They point out that for many years, nurses begged for assistants who could help out with more mundane tasks.
But nurses say the reductions have outpaced the number of beds that have been eliminated so that there are far fewer nurses per patient now. They add that in the topsy-turvy world of downsizing nurses have often been asked to take on the responsibilities of those who have been laid off. St. Luke's-Roosevelt dismissed all of its phlebotomists as of July 1, so nurses now draw all patient blood there.
Nurses say that such situations will become more common as their ranks are spread increasingly thin. Ms. Wade of Mount Sinai said that at her hospital, floors that once had eight nurses now have six and two nurses aides and that the operating room staff now consists of only 75 percent registered nurses, down from about 85 percent a year ago.
She said that while the newly minted technicians were able to gather data -- like blood sugar levels and temperatures -- they did not necessarily understand them and might not recognize emergency situations.
A number of doctors and nurses also said hospitals had failed to plan for the transition. But hospital officials complain that union and civil service rules have made such planning next to impossible.
Instead of being able to cut nursing jobs where they are no longer needed, hospital officials say, union contracts force them to eliminate jobs based on seniority. So, for example, a hospital that wanted to close a drug unit could not simply dismiss the dozen nurses who worked there. Instead, the hospital has to lay off the 12 most junior nurses in a hospital and then "bump" nurses from the drug unit into those slots.
Such bumping is an everyday occurrence at hospitals, leaving some nurses ricocheting around hospitals -- from the operating room to the labor floor, from an AIDS unit to a surgical team, said Ann Bove, a senior nurse at Bellevue Medical Center.
Marion Spector, a nursing instructor at Bellevue, said that after the hospital laid off 36 nurses in late June, she was told that she had five days to train an assistant head nurse from a psychiatric ward to work on a unit for prisoners with serious medical problems.
Instead of running therapy sessions, the nurse would suddenly be dressing surgical wounds. Instead of passing out Thorazine, she would be hanging blood transfusion bags and tending patients with IV's.
One nurse who was bumped from a medical floor to a drug and alcohol detoxification unit at St. Luke's-Roosevelt said his training for the new job consisted primarily of watching a series of videotapes.
At Harlem Hospital's intensive-care unit, a combination of buyouts, layoffs and union work rules has decimated the nursing staff.
In 1995, the unit lost a large number of experienced nurses as the result of a buyout and early retirement offer from the Health and Hospitals Corporation. The hospital hired new nurses to replace them.
But last June, many of these recently hired nurses were laid off with little notice because they had no seniority. And the hospital's medical staff felt it was unsafe to bump regular floor nurses into the technological jungle of intensive care, a transition that usually takes four to six months of training.
Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, said more nurses were likely to lose their jobs. "Whatever we've seen so far is just the tip of the iceberg," he said.
Health care experts say half the nurses who lose hospital jobs will find work in outpatient clinics or in home care.
But nurses say they live in fear of pink slips. With 5,000 still coming out of nursing schools in New York State each year, the job market is flooded.
Keith Hensen left a private hospital to work in a long-term care facility one year ago. "The hospital was on the verge of collapse," he said, "and I didn't want to be out on the street unemployed with 500 other nurses." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GREATER NEW YORK HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (82%); HARLEM HOSPITAL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARLEM HOSPITAL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; NURSING AND NURSES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR NURSES & NURSING (96%); HOSPITALS (93%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); STRIKES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); EARLY RETIREMENT (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



445 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
Remarks by Lamm to Reform Party Convention in Valley Forge

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
Following are remarks yesterday by Richard D. Lamm, the former Governor of Colorado, at the Reform Party National Convention in Valley Forge, Pa., as transcribed by the Federal Document Clearing House: 
 I went to Los Angeles 78 days ago to make a speech. It's been like riding a tiger ever since. It's been like drinking out of a fire hydrant. But I don't regret a moment of it. It's been wonderful, and thank you all for making it possible.
I should like to begin -- or I'd like to end, I guess, as I began, talking passionately about the issues.
And add, actually, to it why I've come so firmly to believe in the whole Reform Party. I see it now so clearly. The two major political parties are not going to reform our campaign and election system.
Our two major political parties are not going to be able to govern in the long-term interests of our children.
We have America caught in this very strange Catch-22, where the best politics is the worst public policy.
A great nation is not always lucky enough to have politically popular solutions to its problems. No great nation in history has even borrowed its way to greatness.
A gentleman over here says, "But we're trying."
And boy, is that true. But no great nation in history has made their elections into public auctions and remained a great country.
What better place than Valley Forge to recognize again that sometimes freedom needs sacrifice.
Half a mile away from where we meet tonight, brave soldiers froze at Valley Forge 220 years ago. And the next generation accepted and paid off the debts that they ran up in fighting for our independence.
But not my generation. Oh, no. We just kept borrowing and borrowing and borrowing. We add to the nation's debt for programs that we ourselves do not earn. . . .
We can reform and renew America, but it will not be done by politics as usual.
You know, Yogi Berra said, "I'm for leaving the status quo as it is."
But we can't. That's not an option. A great country either moves or forward or it moves backwards.
Let me urge you, however, to add one additional issue to your platform. And that's the issue of immigration.
A sensitive issue, but one of those that America must face.
There is no essential difference, in my mind, between exporting a job and importing a new worker. . . .
I'm back to the immigration. The question I believe that we have to face is how many people can we accept in the United States in a world of limited resources.
Do I have the next slide? I'm sorry. I can't -- the first census was about the same time as Valley Forge and it found four million Americans -- Europeans in America. So, we've had six doublings of the United States in our short 220-year history.
We've gone from 4, 8, 16 -- you see it up to approximately 260 million right now. What I would ask you to think about is two more doublings just, just two more -- we've already had six -- two more doublings gives us more people in the United States than are today in India. Is that really what we want?
I think we should be pro-immigrant, that people that already here -- we've -- of course, we accept and they're good people. And we want them to contribute to our society and assimilate into our society and into our economy.
But, the question is, do we want to have as many people as they do in India? How many workers? How many jobs? . . .
Essentially, this shows that America is going to stabilize its population by about 305 million people in about 2040, without -- just by our natural birth rate. And so the question about our demographic future is how many people do we want living in America? How big a size? . . .
The U.S. Labor Department estimates that we will create 18 million new jobs in the 1990's. Does it really make any sense to bring in 13 million new immigrants?
We've got our own poor that we have to start up the economic ladder.
We all now agree that there's been something fundamentally wrong in our welfare system. Let's start our own people having those unskilled and turn them into skilled jobs and turn them into better jobs. . . .
Let me just say that I do believe it's immensely important that -- that the Reform Party add in an appropriate way, and a way that really is accepting of the people that are already here, but start raising the question -- how many workers, how many people do we want to import?
So, thank you for this opportunity. Congratulations.
I want to congratulate Ross Perot. I want to thank my workers. They were terrific. I want to thank Ed Zschau, because one of the more decent and wonderful people that I've run into in public policy.
And I want to thank you, because America needs reform. Thank you.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Lamm, the losing candidate, addressed the Reform Party's national convention in Valley Forge, Pa. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US) POLITICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (63%); IMMIGRATION (60%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: LAMM, RICHARD D RICHARD D LAMM (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



446 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA: PUBLISHING;
Breaking the mold again, Whole Earth Review is asking subscribers for charity.

BYLINE: By Robin Pogrebin 

 BODY:
WHEN magazines hit the financial skids, they are generally either sold or killed; there is very little hope of finding an alternative. One tactic that would likely never occur to big magazine companies like Conde Nast or Hachette Filipacchi is to canvas subscribers for contributions.
But Whole Earth Review has never been like most magazine companies. Throughout the 25 years of its existence, the touchy-feely, techno-savvy publication has exploded one convention after another. 
 It has refused to accept any display advertising on the principle that it compromises editorial freedom and subscribers are a more important source of income. All staff members have been paid the same salary, no matter what their positions. And the magazine has featured controversial cover topics like "Doing Drag and Male Identity."
The magazine, based in Sausalito, Calif., grew out of the Whole Earth Catalog -- once a hugely popular almanac of products for the 1960's back-to-the-land generation -- and has long promoted a philosophy of individual responsibility and personal empowerment.
"We are as gods and might as well get good at it,"founder Stewart Brand wrote in his statement of purpose for the catalogue, adding that one "realm of intimate, personal power is developing the power of individuals to conduct their own education, find their own inspiration, shape their own environment and share the adventure with whoever is interested."
Since then, the staff of the magazine has refined that statement slightly: "We are dedicated to self-teaching, and to encouraging people to think for themselves.
"Our publications are a call to, and support for, individual action."
It was little wonder that when Whole Earth Review found its survival in jeopardy, the magazine made that call to action on its own behalf. In a letter to "subscribers and friends" dated Summer Solstice 1996, the Review's management laid out its financial troubles. The nonprofit quarterly publication had been running a deficit of $20,000 a month, the letter explained. It could not pay the printer or its 10 employees.
"We're not dead yet," the letter said. "We intend to come back -- with your help."
To come back, the magazine needs to raise $600,000 in the next 18 months, with $150,000 of that to come from its base of about 16,000 subscribers. The letter sought minimum donations of $35 from readers, as well as feedback. "What do you value about Whole Earth Review?" it asked. "What would you want to change?"
The Review -- published by the Point Foundation, a not-for-profit educational organization -- also said it would be taking a six-month break to sort out the magazine's financial troubles. There would be no summer and fall issues. During the hiatus, those staff members who were not laid off would consider several options, including merging with another magazine, beginning to carry advertising or throwing in the towel.
"It was a decision based on economics," said Michael Stone, the Review's general manager. "We were not taking in enough income to sustain the publication and really needed to step back, raise some money and look at the organization and its financial viability."
The magazine blames its struggles in part on paper and postage costs, as well as on the diminishing success of its catalogues, which over the years had offered practical information -- but no longer products -- for everything from how to build a windmill to beekeeping to goat farming to how to prepare a neighborhood disaster tool box in anticipation of an earthquake or hurricane.
The organization said it would only break even on its Millennium Whole Earth Catalog, published by HarperCollins in 1994. And while the Point's sale of its on-line service, the WELL (Whole Earth 'Lectronic Link), helped pay the bills for 1993 and 1994, those funds have now run out.
True to Whole Earth's power-of-the-individual philosophy, the magazine's readers have rallied. In the last two months, the magazine has raised $112,000 in donations, two-thirds of its stated goal for subscribers. It hopes that, with the additional help of foundation money, it will be back on its feet in time to publish a winter issue. "We are not folding," said David Katz, the Review's interim publisher. "We foresee a rebirth."
The Review has also received some 2,000 responses from subscribers offering support and ideas. "This magazine is very important to people and their lives," Mr. Katz said.
The Review has long been a favorite of subscribers who have looked forward to its irreverent articles on topics natural and technological. Its most recent issue, published in March, included an excerpt from a book about how Buckminster Fuller's ideas are relevant today, a piece on lessons from Biosphere 2 and an article on the Conference for the Society of Ecological Restoration.
The magazine has always been just plain off-beat. It categorizes its donors with quirky names: Perpetual Supporter ($10,000 -- Marlon Brando has long been one of those); Angelic ($5,000); Maniacal ($1,000); Munificent ($250); Sustaining ($100); Retaining ($50).
"It feels like a relationship to me," said Cliff Martin, a longtime subscriber and sometime writer for the Review who lives in Oregon. "When there was an article on urban growth in the Midwest or how to keep a human head alive after someone is dead, I wasn't interested, but then there would be an article on how the World Wide Web is going to affect the next election.
"It's very sad that this wonderful icon might fall apart," Mr. Martin said. "I think it's going to leave a real gap in contemporary journalism."
As to whether or not readers could tolerate the introduction of advertising into the Review -- heretofore supported by $20 subscriptions, donations and the catalogues -- most have responded in the affirmative. "The vast majority of people who comment on advertising say, 'Hey, we can handle it,' " Mr. Katz said.
Still, there inevitably is something poignant about the magazine's current predicament; to stay alive, it will have to abandon much of its very essence. The magazine will probably end up accepting advertising. It may merge with another publishing company. And it is likely to become a for-profit operation.
"It's been a difficult time," Mr. Stone said. "This is not a move anybody wanted to have to make."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After asking its readers for donations two months ago, Whole Earth Review has raised $112,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: WHOLE EARTH REVIEW (MAGAZINE) HACHETTE FILIPACCHI PRESSE (58%); HACHETTE FILIPACCHI PUBLICACOES (58%); HACHETTE FILIPACCHI TAIWAN (58%); HACHETTE FILIPACCHI PRESSE (58%); HACHETTE FILIPACCHI ASSOCIES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHOLE EARTH REVIEW (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; MAGAZINES MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



447 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: State Tuition Rose Faster Than Inflation

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 18

 BODY:
Tuition at four-year, public colleges over the last 14 years has increased nearly three times as fast as household income and more than three times the rate of consumer price inflation, according to Congressional auditors.
The General Accounting Office said in a report requested by 23 members of Congress and released on Thursday that college tuitions on average jumped 234 percent between the 1980-81 and 1994-95 school years. 
 That compares with an 82 percent increase in median household income over the same period and a 74 percent increase in the Labor Department's Consumer Price Index.
Two factors were at work, the report said: rising expenditures by schools and an increasing reliance on tuition increases as support from state governments declined.
State support for colleges dropped 14 percent over the 14 years. As a result, tuition accounted for 23 percent of schools' total revenue in 1994-95, up from 16 percent in 1980-81.
At the same time, school spending rose 121 percent. The increase was driven primarily by faculty salaries, which rose 97 percent, and other instructional costs, the accounting office said. Administrative costs, meanwhile, rose 131 percent.
In recent years, in fact, there has been a move by some colleges and universities -- particularly small regional institutions seeking an advantage -- to lower costs. Even some elite colleges have sought to at least keep increases small. Princeton University, for instance, announced earlier this year that the price of tuition, room and board this year would increase by 4.6 percent to $28,325. It is the lowest rate of increase at the university since 1967-68.
Tuition for the 1995-96 school year ranged from $1,524 to $5,521 for in-state students, the report said. The average cost was $2,865.
In general, the highest tuitions were in the Northeast and the lowest in the South and the West. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO) PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO) US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION TUITION FEES (93%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



448 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3807 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
Excerpts From Perot's Acceptance Speech at Reform Party Convention

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from remarks yesterday by Ross Perot accepting the Reform Party's Presidential nomination in Valley Forge, Pa., as transcribed by the Federal Document Clearing House: 
 Thank you for creating the Reform Party. It's an historic event. It only happens once every hundred years in this country.
You're great. Thank you.
I am honored and I am humbled that you have chosen me as your candidate to be President.
And you have my solemn promise that I will only act in the best interest of our country.
This is your country. I will be your servant.
I will only belong to you, the people.
And I am absolutely committed, irrevocably committed, to passing on a better world to our children and grandchildren.
After watching this introduction, surely you will agree that I have literally lived the American Dream.
I want to make sure that some other kid who's a nobody from nowhere has that same opportunity.
I'm here today because I'm absolutely determined to keep the dream alive. And we will pass on a better, stronger country to the next generation.
I would like to compliment Governor Lamm on his speech and thank him for his participation. Thank you, Dick.
Have you listened to the messages from the other parties during the last few weeks?
Do their promises for 1996 sound familiar?
Who first brought these issues to the American people? You did!
Isn't it terrific that in just four years, they've repented, been reborn. And you are setting the agenda for '96? God bless you.
Now, here is the question for everybody in the good old U.S.A. Do you think they will keep those promises?
Remember Lech Walesa's message to our Congress when he said words are plentiful, but deeds are precious? We are here in Valley Forge tonight to remind everybody that the people who created this country made incredible sacrifices. That's why we have the convention here.
They fought barefooted in the snow in this part of Pennsylvania.
Has anybody here ever heard the name Benjamin Fell? Somebody has. Wonderful.
He manufactured shoes and leather goods in the Valley Forge area during the Revolution. He was shocked when he saw George Washington's men barefoot and suffering in December 1777. He immediately started making shoes for the soldiers. He filled his house and attic with soldiers. He was expelled from the Quaker Church for participating in the war.
The British posted a reward for his capture, but he kept on making shoes for Washington's soldiers.
Now, that's what we need. His modest tombstone carries this inscription, "To the memory of Benjamin Fell, a patriot and a Christian, a friend of George Washington, and a friend of God." . . .
Our ancestors came across the ocean in sailing ships you wouldn't go across a lake in.
When they arrived there was nothing here. They built their tiny little cabins and they did it with neighbors helping one another, not Federal grants.
They came here because they wanted to be free and they wanted to practice the religion of their choice. And after 200 years too many of us take those privileges for granted. We must not forget they are precious and they are fragile.
Now the immigrants who came later applied to become American citizens, waited their turn, and then came through Ellis Island.
Once they left Ellis Island they were on their own. There were no social programs to take care of them. They scrambled. They made do. They built the greatest country in the history of man.
It's important for all of you to know that I'm a very ordinary person of average intelligence and all of my success has come from surrounding myself with people who are far more intelligent than I am. And they have carried me from victory to victory to victory to victory. . . .
Think of the pioneers who headed West in covered wagons.
Where did they eat? There were no McDonald's restaurants.
At the end of the day, they hunted for food. Some found food, others did not find food. And guess what?
Those who found food shared it with those who did not. Now, that's a great country.
Well, surely there was a network of Holiday Inns across the country for these people to stop at night and have a good night's sleep. No. They circled the wagons. They slept on the ground. And they took turns standing guard, protecting one another.
No wonder we're such a great nation. It's built on solid granite.
 
A Matter of Self-Reliance
Our ancestors came to this great country with a huge land mass, a tiny population, and far more than our share of minerals and other natural resources. In the old days, our ancestors would move into an area, creatively strip it of its natural resources, and then the word would go out, "Go West, young man. Go West."
Well, we've now got over 260 million people in this country. We've populated it from coast to coast.
We cannot leave our problems behind. We have to solve them where we are; and we're not. But you and I, millions of us together will, right?
The Pilgrims, the pioneers and those who survived the Depression were proud, independent people who took care of themselves and looked after one another. They were hunters. They were survivors.
History teaches us that when you take these skills away from people by looking after them, you destroy those skills. But more importantly, you destroy their self-respect, their pride and their dignity. And you also do that when you take a good person's job away from them and send it over to Asia to 25 cents an hour children. Thank you.
And if you want an example nobody can argue with, let's take the American Indian. Look at what the Indians accomplished before we put them on the reservation and look at the damage we did to these great people by taking care of people who had been proud, independent hunters, warriors, survivors and empire builders.
As you think about the future of our great country with all the facts that you have in your head, and we are dedicated to getting into the heads of every single American before November, I'd like you to consider these words written by the Scottish historian Alexander Tyler in 1787. He said, a democracy can only exist until the voters discover that they can vote themselves money from the public treasury.
From that moment on, the majority always will vote for candidates who promise the people benefits from the public treasury with the result that a democracy always collapses over loose fiscal product -- policy.
Does that seem familiar to you here?
O.K. But here's the most telling thing he said. He says the average age of the world's democracies has been 200 years.
George Washington, our first President, was sworn in 207 years ago. The clock is ticking. You are the Minutemen. You've got to stop plowing and pick up and get organized and vote in November to make sure that doesn't happen.
The future of our country rests in our hands. We have to decide who we are. Are we a proud, free, independent people? Or in the words of the song, "Someone to Watch Over Me," are we little sheep who are lost in the wood? But we would be good if we had someone to watch over us?
We are proud, free, independent people. Shouldn't we go back to principles this great country was founded on, that we take care of ourselves?
And then, then we go out and take care of people who can't take care of themselves and need our help, right?
Now we have big government taking care of us. Isn't that wonderful?
But do they do a very good job?
We haven't figured out that big government doesn't have any more to take care of us until we send taxes to Washington, where the special interests, who pay for their Hollywood-style political campaigns to manipulate our votes then decide how our money will be spent. And that's the reason you're not getting your dollar's worth out of that routine. . . .
 
False Promises of Reform
In 1995 the elected leaders from both of the parties publicly shook hands on national television and agreed to form a task force on campaign-finance reform and lobbying. Remember that?
God bless them, they were going to hit the line and do it because they knew they had to do it to get your vote. The bad news is they never did it. They just shook hands.
Where I come from -- as a boy, particularly -- a handshake was worth more than a written contract is today.
And a handshake at that level ought to be worth that for now.
So after sending us that feel-good message, they went out and spent the year raising money for 1996 from the special interests. And as we sit here tonight, there is a big party at the Waldorf-Astoria, and I know the room.
It may hold about 800 people. And I heard over television today that they're going to raise $8 million. I'll let you figure out what they're charging per plate for that.
Isn't this a compelling argument that the people who own this country should have their own political party with no special interests controlling it? . . .
Our country's major problems are caused by huge social programs that were never designed to work properly, and have generated major cost overruns. These major cost overruns have created a massive debt.
In addition, we have seriously damaged our job base with very poorly negotiated trade agreements. And that has caused our tax base to deteriorate.
You see, it all fits together like pieces in a puzzle. They just look at the problems individually. You've got to look at them all at once.
Today, the two political parties have created -- here's the good news -- America's No. 1 growth industry -- and I want to give them full credit for that.
It's up there. You can see it. I can't.
The U.S. Government makes our other major industries look insignificant. But as practical business people, you're saying, what product do they make, Ross? They don't make one.
Well, then where do they get the money for this great new industry? From you.
Well, how do the customers feel about this giant new industry?
Only 19 percent of the American people trust this giant new industry. That's how they feel. . . .
Let's look on page 18 of the President's 1997 budget. And here is the record. We have assets of $2.3 trillion. We have liabilities of $5.2 trillion. We have a negative net worth in the Federal Government of $2.9 trillion. And guess who's going to have to pick up all of that? We are. You see, you're the only source of money. Well -- but they left something out. They left out $17 trillion worth of guarantees.
So, that negative net worth is almost $20 trillion. So, that's where we are today.
Now, do you get this kind of blunt, straight talk from the other political parties?
Would you rather hear this kind of talk from me or do you want me to get tears in my eyes, lean into the audience, and say, "I feel your pain?" . . .
 
'Kill That Little Snake'
Can we count on the two political parties to solve these problems?
They are the problem, right?
Now, if you got a friend that's drinking too much, the first thing he's got to do is admit it, right?
They won't admit we have a problem, and therefore they cannot come up with real solutions. Instead of giving you advice, they hire professional speech writers and seek help from Hollywood's finest to manipulate you into casting an emotional vote.
And boy, has it been working. But you and I are going to get the facts out to the American people, and we're going to kill that little snake this time, right? . . .
How big is $5 trillion? Nobody can relate to it. Here's a way you figure it out. We don't have $5 trillion of currency in print. And I think that if you took all the money that existed to go pay the debt, you wouldn't have $5 trillion.
And that's just no -- that's just too much debt, right?
And now that you know that is nothing compared to what will happen in the 21st century if we don't stop the bleeding now. Let's go get a tourniquet and stop the bleeding in November of 1996.
And if you don't, the debt will climb to $7 trillion by the year 2000. So we have to.
We all know about the budget deficit, but we've got two deficits. We never talk about the other one because they really have worked hard -- the special interests demanded it in return for their campaign money. And the boys in Washington delivered it.
And that is the trade deficit.
Now, the U.S. merchandise trade deficit last year was $174 billion. That's the largest of any nation in the history of man. In 1950, 90 percent of the goods sold in this country were made in the U.S.A. Today, less than 50 percent of the goods sold in this country are made in the U.S.A.
Two million manufacturing jobs have gone to Asia. Five hundred thousand jobs have gone to Mexico -- the cumulative Nafta trade deficit.
Nafta was supposed to be a money-maker, right?
No wonder the guys who voted for it are now telling you they're against it because the cumulative Nafta trade deficit is $52 billion and growing like a weed. Did Nafta cause a giant sucking sound?
O.K. Do you remember how we were ridiculed and derided? Somebody said I'd rather be right than President. In this situation, we've got to be right and President to clean up this mess. . . .
Our conventions cost about $800,000 together. They spent over $30 million on theirs. I think ours are better than theirs.
Don't you think if we had that kind of plain thinking in Washington, if we can do -- keep in mind I remember last -- in '92, they had spent $20 million, $30 million a piece. We had spent $1.5 million getting petitions signed.
I think we've made the point that we're more cost effective than they are. But now, everywhere I go, people ask me, Ross, what's the problem with Medicare and Medicaid?
In 1965, when we created Medicaid, the spending forecast for 1990 was $9 billion. The actual spending was $98 billion. The reason it's in trouble is that they never designed it to work.
 
Dealing With the Details
Now, let's go to Medicaid. It was a noble goal -- massive legislation, massive funding failure. You wouldn't make a screwdriver that way, right?
Medicare and Medicaid are more complex than putting a man on the moon. But in the 1960's when Medicaid was created, they told the taxpayers in 1990, it won't cost you more than $1 billion. It cost you $41 billion.
The annual cost of Medicare and Medicaid today is at $250 billion a year. The two parties let this happen.
Why? And they let it keep on happening. The special interests who fund their campaigns are making huge amounts of money at your expense.
We'll stop it. . . .
What's the problem with Social Security?
Everybody thinks it's a pension fund. No. It's pay-as-you go. The money comes in this week; it goes out next week to retired people. Then how did it ever work?
In 1945 we had 42 people that worked for every person retired. By 1950 that number dropped to 16 people that worked for every person retired. But we raised rates, expanded benefits, kept on working
But today we only have 3.3 people at work for every person retired. And we're headed for two people at work, for every person retired in the year 2020.
We must transition Social Security from a pay-as-you go fund to a true pension fund. And nobody in the Reform Party would ever tolerate taking Social Security away from retired people. Let me make that point.
Everybody ---- But the sooner we start to transition the better we'll be. The most unselfish people in this country are the retired people. They are our eagles. They survived the Depression. They fought in World War I, World War II and Korea, and on and on and on and on.
They are our heroes. I rejoice that they're living longer. I hope they live forever.
But if you really care about other people, than you put together plans that will work for those people, right?
And you don't sit there with tears in your eyes and say, "I'll protect Social Security as you know it."
Because you can't. You can through your term, but that won't work over the long term.
Why didn't they face this issue? They think it will it cost them votes. I'd rather lose the election than lie about Social Security. . . .
Now, all the political experts across the country who are watching this program, will be shocked and are shocked already that I am talking about real problems and the fact that we have to face them and solve them in an acceptance speech.
This is supposed to be morning in America. You're supposed to leave feeling giddy and good because I just whistled good news all night.
That's not what we're about. We're about getting the facts, taking action, producing results.
I want you all to know the only reason I do this and the only reason I asked my family to go through all this unpleasantness, unfortunately, that goes with politics, is that I am absolutely devoted to solving these problems. . . .
Get the facts. And we must have a new tax system. We know that.
The first step in solving any problem is to define the problem. Watch my lips, Washington.
If you want to solve a problem carefully, thoughtfully and rationally define it. Well, one of the things to do is look at history. You ain't going to believe this one.
Before our nation was formed the total cost to run our Government was 67 cents per person a year. Then after our nation was formed it went up to a dollar a year. Then 120 years later, in 1910, it was up to $6.75 per person a year. Now we're getting to be a pretty big nation, right? -- $6.75 a year.
Then we passed the income tax law -- amendment in 1913. And 16 years later it had gone from $6.75 to $29 per person a year.
Now strap in your seat belt and don't eject because you can't. Today it's $5,700 a year per person.
I hope I've made the point that when you've got a tax law that Congress can raise, it will. . . .
I will not run up and down the streets of America promising you hope, opportunity, and growth, flat tax, flat tax, flat tax.
If that is the best tax, that's the one we'll do. But we're going to look at all of them carefully, thoughtfully and rationally. We're going to use the computer as our wind tunnel.
We'll nail it, give it you and then move on to our next problem.
But I am sick and tired of having a Government where the benefits of our congressmen and the retirement plans of our congressmen and the people in the White House are better than those of the ordinary American citizen.
They are your servants.
Now, if you want them to feel your pain, let them have retirement and health insurance like yours, right? . . .
As we approach the 1996 election, they've proposed solving these financial problems with a big tax cut.
Since we cannot pay our bills, wouldn't it make a lot more sense to have a big spending cut first? . . .
Now, we have tried this supply-side economics in the '80's. It gave us the biggest increase in the deficit we ever had in our country's history. Even the people in the party that created it called it voodoo economics.
I said in 1992 if we ever do this again, we'll be in deep voodoo.
And there we are.
I've got to talk to you about our public schools. It's brains and wits time as we approach the 21st century. We've got to have the greatest public schools in the world. . . .
We have the largest number of functional illiterates in the industrialized world. At the 12th grade level, I'm sad to report that 66 percent can't meet the reading and writing standards, 73 percent can't meet the geography standards, 84 percent can't meet the mathematics standards, and 89 percent can't meet the history standards.
The major discipline problems in our school in the 1940's were talking, chewing gum, making noise, running in the halls, getting out of line, wearing improper clothing, and not putting paper in the waste baskets.
I can live with those, right?
Here are our major discipline problems today: children carrying guns to school, drug abuse, pregnancy, suicide, rape, robbery, and assault. Isn't that sad?
Learning cannot occur in that environment. More importantly, why do parents allow their children to act this way?
In a free society, isn't it our job as parents to teach our children to behave and keep our children under control?
When I was bad in school, what they did to me there wasn't nearly as significant as what they did to me when I got home. My parents never read my Miranda rights.
And if we want our children to be competitive we've got to have the finest schools in the world. That simple. This will have to come from us, the people. . . .
 
Plea to Ordinary People
The only reason I am here tonight is I want to solve those problems for the great people in this country.
Thank you. Ordinary people in this country are capable of extraordinary achievements. You know that, and I do. There's nothing we can't do.
Keep in mind it's going to be tough for the next few months, but the same blow that shatters glass hardens steel. You've been here. You've been through the fight. And you are hard as steel. And boy, am I proud of you.
The other parties have a fortune to spend from now on. They have almost $100 million under the Federal election laws. We only get $29 million.
I've got to go to the men and women across this country and ask them for their support.
I particularly go to the people who own the 6 million small businesses and the 80 million people who work for them and ask them to send in small contributions.
I go to all of you and say, if this is worth fighting, you will have to contribute so that we can get a semi-level playing field so that we can compete from now until November.
If you want to send in a contribution, just send it to Perot '96, Post Office Box 96, Dallas, Tex. You don't even have to write that down, right? Fine.
As we work together, I ask all of you to remember it is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness.
The shadows will fall behind you if you walk into the light. All the darkness in the world cannot put out the light of one little candle.
Millions of good, decent people like you must light these candles that will lead us to victory in the light in 1996. You are the wind beneath the Reform Party's wings. It would be nothing without you.
As we march forward together we will need the Spirit of '76 in '96. And in the middle of the effort when things get tougher and tougher -- and they will -- just remember this, a bell is no bell until you ring it.
Think of the Liberty Bell.
And a song is no song until you sing it.
Think of the Star-Spangled Banner.
Love in your heart isn't put there to stay. Think of your children and grandchildren. Love isn't love until you give it away.
Think of the millions of people you can help. God bless you all. Thank you very much.
A privilege to be with you. Thank you.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Reform Party convention yesterday, Margot Perot joined in the applause for her husband, who accepted the party's nomination with an attack on the major parties. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY REFORM PARTY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; THIRD-PARTY MOVES (US) POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FOOTWEAR MFG (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (61%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS ROSS PEROT (62%); BENJAMIN FELL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



449 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Footnotes Remain Part of Scholarly Life;
Humanities at Risk
To the Editor:
Your article "Footnotes Offering Fewer Insights" (Education Page, Aug. 14) itself offers valuable insights into the crisis facing the humanities.

 BODY:
 The art of the footnote suffers only in part from lazy or fame-seeking scholars. Rather, market forces -- which have cut off state funding to accessible libraries, enabled the power of book chains and impelled university presses to package pulp scholarship -- alter the presentation of scholarly inquiry for the sake of commerce.
By weakening libraries and privatizing knowledge, such forces sap the vitality of the humanist mission, the fostering of public dialogue and accountability. With its reference to a community of scholars past and present, the footnote dramatizes themes of conversation and responsibility. Its loss reflects the value at which the free market holds such traditions of thought.
In reportage on the humanities, the footnote is like its distant academic cousin, "political correctness." Both topics divert attention from economic problems with humanities education that deserve scrutiny.
 
MATTHEW P. BROWN
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, Aug. 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (88%); LITERATURE (88%); PRIVATIZATION (88%); BOOKSTORES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: BROWN, MATTHEW P

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



450 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 19, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: Blackout May Be Caution Sign on Road to Utility Deregulation

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 18

 BODY:
As a handful of electrical lines in southern Oregon sagged in the summer heat last weekend and then began shutting down in a chain of short circuits that blacked out power to more than four million people in nine states, there was a brief telephone call that engineers at the Federal power authority in Oregon neglected to make.
It remains unclear whether that call -- to warn the Northern California utility company that was buying some of Oregon's electricity about problems on the lines -- would have averted what soon became the second major power blackout in six weeks on the largest regional power grid. 
 But even so, the momentary lack of coordination between big utility companies has emerged as a warning to energy officials and utility company executives about the vulnerabilities of a huge regional grid that is moving quickly toward an uncharted future of deregulation and competition.
"The system relies now on voluntary cooperation among the utilities," said the Deputy Secretary of Energy, Charles B. Curtis. With the advent of deregulation, he added, "there is a concern that the voluntary cooperation and the informal structures that underlie the reliability of the system are going to come under pressure."
The coming deregulation of California's $20 billion electrical power industry will effectively begin to split the generation and transmission of electricity into separate businesses. California's move is being closely watched in the 40 other states that are considering or planning the breakup of their utility monopolies.
The arrangement is supposed to be a boon to California's consumers, who now pay almost 50 percent above the national average for their power. Consumers will eventually be able to choose who supplies their electricity, even as big utility companies continue to own the power lines. Many analysts say the plan, which is to take effect in January 1998, will be a model for deregulation elsewhere in the West and around the country.
But it is also an arrangement that will involve a much more complicated system of energy transactions among newly competing companies, one that some officials fear could undermine incentives for the maintenance, expansion and coordinated operation of the power grid itself.
"We're already having some problems," said Randy Hardy, the chief executive officer of the Bonneville Power Administration, the Federal power-marketing agency in Oregon that operates part of the grid, "and we're moving toward a deregulated marketplace where right now, you could have little or no incentive for the utilities to invest in their transmission systems. That's a risky situation to be in."
While Mr. Hardy's engineers continue to run elaborate computer models in an effort to determine the precise causes of the power failure that began on the afternoon of Aug. 10 with a short circuit on a transmission line near the Columbia River, the officials have assembled a general picture of the problems that the episode exposed.
Its backdrop is one that has become familiar throughout the West in recent years, as pressure from ratepayers, regulatory changes and community opposition to the construction of new generating plants and transmission lines have led utility companies to hunt farther afield for cheap power. After a long, wet winter that filled the hydroelectric dams of the Northwest, and in the middle of a hot summer that was straining air-conditioners across the Southwest, heavy loads of electricity were being shipped relatively long distances over lines that some officials say have not been adequately maintained.
Near Oregon's northern border with Washington, a 500,000-volt transmission line known as the Big Eddy sagged onto a tree and shorted out at 2:01 P.M. As engineers at Oregon's Bonneville Power Administration struggled to bring the line back up, two other 500,000-volt lines in the area apparently became overloaded by power displaced from the Big Eddy and shut down as well.
Bonneville officials said they had thought at the time that they would be able to bring the system under control without consequences for their customers in the Southwest. Dennis Eyre, the executive director of the Western Systems Coordinating Council, the regional agency that oversees the reliability of the grid, said there was "no question" that Bonneville should have alerted its chief customer to the south, the Pacific Gas and Electric Company. Officials at that utility have insisted that they could have avoided the blackout if they had been warned.
Within an hour, three more transmission lines overloaded and shut down, followed by the McNary hydroelectric station on the Columbia River, which was supposed to help stabilize the grid in case of such emergencies. Backup support for the thinly stretched grid would normally have come from a dam just upriver at The Dalles, Ore.; on that Saturday afternoon, it happened to be mostly shut down in a routine step to protect the run of chinook and sockeye salmon covered by the Endangered Species Act.
A minute later, the power surges forced the shutdown of the Pacific Intertie, the main power artery between the Northwest and California. Its collapse led to other shutdowns across California.
The immediate steps taken by energy officials to try to restore the system's reliability were straightforward: power flows on the Intertie are now being held to almost 40 percent below the lines' capacity, an emergency tree-trimming program was begun, and Bonneville agreed to report any future problems on its 500,000-volt lines.
The engineers' investigation continues. But energy officials, utility executives and others suggested that regardless of the problems uncovered, answers would need to be found to address a broader set of issues involving the reliability of the grid in a deregulated market for power.
"This is just a hint of what's to come if we don't strengthen the transmission systems," said Karl Stahlkopf, the vice president for power delivery issues at the Electric Power Research Institute in Palo Alto, Calif.
Under a plan approved last December by California's Public Utilities Commission and now being translated into legislation, power generation in California would begin in January 1998 with the creation of a wholesale power pool, into which big utilities, local power companies and other generators would all be able to sell their electricity.
The transmission lines would still belong to the utilities that now own them, but a so-called independent system operator would be set up to run the grid throughout the state.
Most of the political struggle in California has focused on how the utilities would recover the cost of their capital investments, which they have, until now, passed on to customers, and the terms under which utility companies are to sell some power plants to some of the other, mostly smaller, companies with which they will be competing. Comparatively little attention has been paid to the fact that the competition could mean an explosion in the number of companies selling power on the grid, greater reliance on long-distance transmissions and fewer incentives to avoid the sort of coordination and maintenance problems pointed out by the blackout on Aug. 10 and the earlier one, on July 2.
"If you're the separate transmission company, you're going to want to load up your lines to the maximum utilization possible and you'll want to minimize your costs," Mr. Hardy, the Bonneville administrator, said, noting that the utilities now had clear obligations to both their customers and the government to keep up their lines. "You're going to have a geometric increase in the number of players. And with the short-term commodity focus of the market, that is a real mismatch."
Edward Kahn, a vice president of National Economic Research Associates, a consulting group that works with investor-owned utilities, compared the establishment of system operators in the states to run a grid that is already integrated at regional levels to having separate air traffic control systems in different regions.
While some experts have advocated that regional system operators be established in place of the nine relatively weak coordinating councils set up after the 1965 New York blackout to oversee different parts of the grid, others doubt the viability of such a plan because of the sweeping reorganization it would entail. Yet Mr. Curtis, the second-ranking official in the Energy Department, said that whether the solution was stricter regulations or stronger incentives for the power companies to insure the reliability of the grid, a solution would eventually have to be found at the regional level.
"We are evolving toward an electric utility system that will be operated more and more on a regional basis," he said in an interview. "That is just the physical fact."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 26, 1996, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A map last Monday showing power grids affected by a blackout in the West misidentified two states. The state labeled Colorado was Wyoming; the one labeled Kansas was Colorado.



GRAPHIC: A huge grid of transmission lines in the Western United States shunt power as needed between utility companies. The blackouts that occurred sporadically around the grid on Aug. 10 began when a 500,000-volt line in northern Oregon known as the Big Eddy sagged in the heat and short-circuited. Within an ahour, a main power artery known as the Pacific Intertie was affected. Map shows the locations of these lines and the extent of the larger grid of transmission lines. (Source: Western Systems Cordinating Council) 
Map: "A Web of Power Lines Under Stress"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA RIVER CARBONATES (50%); BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: BONNEVILLE POWER ADMINISTRATION (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; WESTERN STATES (US); ; UNITED STATES (96%); OREGON, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY DEREGULATION (94%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (93%); POWER FAILURES (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM CLARE SHORT (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1996



451 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1983 words

HEADLINE: Bay Inhabitants Are Mostly Aliens

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif.

 BODY:
FROM the vantage point of the Berkeley Marina one recent morning, San Francisco stood sharply etched against a fog bank nestling along the Pacific shore like a gigantic roll of cotton candy, a recurring tableau essentially unchanged since Tony Bennett first left his heart in the city across the bay.
But ecologically speaking, the broad, aquamarine expanse of San Francisco Bay itself has been drastically reinvented. 
 Every 12 weeks on average, a new species of aquatic animal, plant or microbe from somewhere else in the world takes up residence in the bay. It has become what one expert, Dr. James T. Carlton of the Williams College Maritime Studies Program at Mystic, Conn., calls "an accidental zoo" -- a churning, chaotic cauldron of life in which scores of weird, wonderful creatures of ancient lineage that "never before met each other until just a moment ago in ecological time" have been thrown together.
So far as is known, ecologists say, the bay is the estuary most invaded by exotic species in the world, and estuaries in general are the earth's most invaded marine ecosystems.
On that recent morning, Dr. Andrew N. Cohen, a marine biologist at the University of California at Berkeley who works closely with Dr. Carlton, directed a visitor's attention to an especially revealing gauge.
It was a block of orange Styrofoam, perhaps 3.5 feet by 1.5 feet, of the type that buoys the floating docks of Berkeley and other marinas. When lifted from the water, the block's underside appeared covered by a mass of multicolored moss and lettuce, black, brown, green, tan and yellow. But the plantlike organisms were actually colonies of marine animals, among them sponges and sea squirts, that cling to underwater surfaces around the bay in great masses. About a dozen species were visible, and invisible, uncounted microorganisms raised the total considerably.
"Virtually everything you see has arrived in San Francisco Bay from some other part of the world," Dr. Cohen said. That is the way it is the length and breadth of the bay's food web, from top predators like striped bass (introduced on purpose from the Atlantic Ocean more than a century ago) to microscopic protozoa from Japan.
Invasive species are seen almost everywhere in the world as human activity persistently rearranges the earth's flora and fauna. But San Francisco Bay offers a special window on where the global game of mix and match is leading at its most extreme. Species from other oceans now dominate the bay, and more are being crammed in all the time. They cover the bay's bottom virtually wall to wall, and no part of the larger bay ecosystem has escaped their impact; in some places they appear to account for all life.
They have, in fact, created a brand new ecosystem and perhaps, in time, will write a new chapter in evolution.
These exotic invaders (scientists have identified 212 such species so far, and the origins of 123 others are unknown) have arrived by a variety of avenues, from piggybacking on imported oysters to deliberate introduction to hitchhiking in boxes of fish bait. But the biggest single mechanism, scientists believe, is the ballast water from ships. Discharged routinely and daily into the bay in larger quantities from bigger vessels, ballast water is believed to have caused a marked acceleration of the invasion in the last decade.
Continuing invasions are changing the ecosystem so fast that scientists are doing well just to keep up with the growing inventory and distribution of species. Understanding the organisms' interactions and the characteristics of the new system has proved more elusive. Each new introduced species "can send it off in a different direction," Dr. Carlton said of the ecosystem, "and because I don't know what my next species is tomorrow, I don't know what to predict."
Ecologists like Dr. Cohen and Dr. Carlton, the authors of an exhaustive study of the bay this year for the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, know that there are both positive and negative effects. For openers, there are many more species in the bay than before the invasions; the rich new ecosystem is in some measure a showcase of life's inventive variety.
But similar groupings of species are also being assembled in other estuaries around the globe while the bay's native flora and fauna dwindle in the face of the invasion from abroad. At least one bay species, the thicktail chub, has been driven to extinction. Another, the delta smelt, is endangered. A third, the Sacramento perch, can no longer be found in local waters. And many other native populations have been diminished. Invading predators may have contributed to the losses, Dr. Cohen said.
The bay has "lost the distinctive faunal characteristics and the web of community relationships that it had developed since its post-ice age origin, and which distinguished it from the other great estuaries of the world," the two ecologists wrote in a report last year.
While the worldwide conveyor belt has transferred at least a handful of San Francisco Bay species to distant estuaries, Dr. Cohen said, the extent and volume of the outbound transfer are not known. For terrestrial species, the flow is heavily from Europe and Asia to other parts of the world. For estuarine species, he said, "we don't have a handle on the preponderance one way or the other."
For good or ill, signs of the bay's transformation are everywhere.
"Oh, yes, all right!" Dr. Cohen exclaimed as he examined a tiny isopod, similar to the American pillbug that rolls up into a ball, that he had just extracted from a glob of biological material clinging to a dock at the Coast Guard station in Oakland. Dr. Cohen's excitement was the scientist's excitement over discovery, in this case directed at a recent arrival of Australian origin. But some of the isopod's relatives appear to be boring into and severely damaging the Styrofoam underpinnings of some docks, causing them to sink slowly.
At an arm of the bay within sight of the Oakland Coliseum, littleneck clams from Japan, exposed at low tide, cover the mud like smooth, gray stones. Some people harvest and eat them.
On Bay Farm Island, ribbed horse mussels, natives of the Atlantic, burrow into the mud between the low and high tide marks. They are in the bay by the millions, forming dense colonies. On Bay Farm Island, they bury themselves with just the tips of their double shells exposed and slightly separated. Scientists say they often clamp shut on the toes or bills of the endangered California clapper rail, sometimes causing adult birds to starve and chicks to drown. On the other hand, the mussels have become the rails' main food.
The rails' life is made further hazardous by two introduced land predators, the Norway rat and the red fox. Some measure of refuge from them has been provided by yet another aquatic invader -- Atlantic cordgrass, which thickly covers the shore of Bay Farm Island with a tall, thick protective blanket. But whether it is better habitat than the sparser Pacific cordgrass it is replacing is not known. Nor is it clear just how all of this ecological pulling and hauling will ultimately affect the endangered bird.
Farther south, on the bay shore near Hayward, Dr. Cohen reaches down with a long-handled net and brings up a haul of what look like black-eyed peas. They are tiny Asian clams, invaders that have covered large stretches of the bay's bottom at a peak density of more than 4,000 a square foot since their introduction a mere decade ago, probably as larvae in ballast water.
The clams are too small to have any economic value, but their effect on the life of the bay is enormous. They subsist on microscopic animals and plants, called zooplankton and phytoplankton, which form the basis of the bay's food chain. Scientists calculate that in the northern bay, where the clams are particularly dense, they can filter plankton from all the water in the deep channels more than once a day and all the water in the shallows, where phytoplankton especially abound, nearly 13 times a day. It is feared that the clams will permanently reduce the plankton, to the detriment of fish that feed in open water.
Another recent arrival from Asia, the Chinese mitten crab, so called because of its hairy claws, conjures fears of another sort. A native of Korea and China, it may have been planted in the bay as a food source. But its behavior when introduced outside its native range has sometimes been disturbing. In Germany in the 1930's, Dr. Cohen and Dr. Carlton wrote in their report, the invading crabs became "phenomenally abundant," with masses of them "migrating up the main rivers, piling up against dams, climbing spillways and swarming over the banks onto shore, sometimes wandering onto city streets and entering houses." No such onslaught has yet taken place here, but the crabs were first identified in the bay only two years ago.
An arrival in the late 1980's was the Atlantic green crab, a true aquatic Attila. "It eats virtually everything," Dr. Cohen said. A native of Europe, it made its North American landfall in New England, where in the 1950's it destroyed the soft-shell clam fishery. It may have been introduced here either in ballast water or, as in the case of some other species, as larvae in algae used to pack shipments of bait worms from New England.
Here, the green crab has shown itself capable of eating the Dungeness crab, a valuable food species, and there is concern that it may eliminate the Dungeness from the bay. The green crab is too small to be a marketable replacement. In Bodega Harbor, green crabs can be collected by the score. There they eat the same shellfish that are eaten by native birds, and the concern is that the impact of the crab's depredations will cascade unpredictably through the food web.
Biological transformation has also overtaken the free-swimming creatures of the deep, open water. Gobies from Japan and shrimp from Korea, for instance, have joined the striped bass. In the fresher water of the delta at the northern end of the bay live species like goldfish, carp, threadfin shad and, from eastern North America, six species of catfish and four species each of sunfish and bass.
The economic effects of the introductions of new species have been little studied, but Dr. Cohen and Dr. Carlton say they are clearly substantial, though mixed. On one hand, according to their study, some introduced fish and shellfish have become valuable food and sportfishing species. Some, like mosquitofish, control nuisance insect populations. On the other hand, many of the exotics foul waterways and water delivery systems, damage docks, increase the cost of removing encrusting organisms from ships and prey on valuable native commercial and sport species.
Except in the Great Lakes, the Hudson River and Alaska, there are no government controls on the discharge of ballast water. Senator John Glenn, Democrat of Ohio, introduced a bill this year to extend regulations to all United States ports.
Even if all introductions stopped tomorrow, San Francisco Bay would hardly return to its former condition. While the settling-out of its new ecology is not yet complete, Dr. Cohen believes it might eventually fall into a pattern similar to that observed in terrestrial areas disturbed by humans. There, a relatively few hardy, adaptable, "weedy" species that thrive on disturbance tend to take over.
Stepping back and taking a philosophical look, Dr. Carlton predicted that whatever the character of the new ecosystem, it will in time come to be accepted as natural. No matter how great a creature's impact on the bay, he said, over the years it will gradually be seen as a normal part of the environment by people who do not realize it was an immigrant.
"Three or four generations into the future," he said, "it won't be an issue. Time heals all."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Andrew N. Cohen, a marine biologist at the University of California, examining an exotic marine growth. (Darcy Padilla for The New York Times)(pg. C10);
 
Diagrams: "One to Watch: Chinese Mitten Crab"
First identified in San Francisco Bay two years ago, the Chinese mitten crab has sometimes swarmed alarmingly in other invaded territories, even walking into houses in Germany. (pg. C1)
 
"Some of the Bay's Winners and Losers"
The native thicktail chub has been wiped out. The burrowing isopod, Sphaeroma pentodon, originally from New Zealand, Tasmania and Australia, which arrived in 1893, commonly burrows into any soft material, including styrofoam floats. (Source: Dr. Andrew W. Cohen)(pg. C10)
 
Map of San Francisco showing location of the San Francisco Bay Estuary. (pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); AUSTRALIA (59%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); TASMANIA, AUSTRALIA (59%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: BERKELEY MARINA RESTAURANT CORP (66%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY; UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); AUSTRALIA (59%); GERMANY (59%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%); TASMANIA, AUSTRALIA (59%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; MIGRATION; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; EVOLUTION ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); MARINE BIOLOGY (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); ANIMALS (89%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (88%); MARINAS (78%); BIOLOGY (76%); WILDLIFE (76%); FISHES (76%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (76%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K TONY BENNETT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



452 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Development Zones Program Corrected Flaws

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Questions Raised on Development Zones" (news article, Aug. 8), on New York State Comptroller H. Carl McCall's audit of the state's Economic Development Zones, contains a quoted assertion that New York State subsidizes the relocation of businesses within the state. The zones law forbids such subsidies. 
 A suggestion is also made that inflated job estimates have resulted in excessive costs to taxpayers. The overestimates were reported during the past administration (1991 through 1994). Any zone-based business that overstates job creation results (off which the incentives are based) is under law subject to penalty for fraud. The Department of Economic Development has recently decertified 488 companies for cause or because they no longer claim zone benefits.
Mr. McCall ignored the Pataki administration's reorganization of zone oversight, including sanctions for zones that fail to file complete reports; annual site visits, and decertification of businesses that fail mandatory reporting requirements.
The changes made by Gov. George E. Pataki in the way New York State conducts business have corrected the inherited deficiencies in the zones program. It is now a stronger, more important tool for job creation during New York's economic revival.
 
CHARLES A. GARGANO
Chairman and Chief Executive
Empire State Development Corp.
New York, Aug. 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

INDUSTRY: SIC5044 OFFICE EQUIPMENT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); RELOCATIONS (77%); TRENDS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: GARGANO, CHARLES A EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (55%); EDDIE GEORGE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



453 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
President Dole's Duty

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
"And when I am President, every man and every woman in our armed forces will know the President is their Commander in Chief," said Bob Dole in his acceptance speech in San Diego. The next words were underlined in his text and voice. "Not Boutros Boutros-Ghali or any other U.N. Secretary General."
That got a big hand at the convention. In fact, it always got a nice hand, whenever Mr. Dole and other Republican politicians said it, in or out of the convention hall. Hasn't failed for years. 
 Said once, it would be kind of comical. Here he comes, the Secretary General, patrolling the U.N. corridors, one day in U.S. fatigues, another in the turban of a Sikh general in the Indian Army, or the dress uniform of a Russian admiral. If he is Commander in Chief of American forces he must be the same for all U.N. members, nein, cher Marechal?
But said over and over, it is scare propaganda -- a crazy-mirror distortion not only of the Secretary Generalship but of the entire concept and operation of the U.N.
The U.N. does not exist as Mr. Dole and the platform committee wanted Americans to see it: a strange foreign apparition floating out there whose chief bureaucrat can tell the U.S. what to do. It is a conference center right here in an American city, where a majority of nations decide what economic, military or political action they might take, give instructions to the U.N. staff, which then wanly hopes that the governments will pay up for everything they ordered.
No nation has more often or more successfully used the U.N. to get international support for military operations than the U.S. President Truman outwitted the Soviet Union to get the U.N. umbrella for the decision he had already taken to resist the Communist invasion of South Korea. President Bush got U.N. support for a coalition to defeat Saddam Hussein. The U.S. did not then tell the U.N. that it would permit Saddam Hussein to stay in power if he lost the war. Mr. Bush let that be a neat surprise.
President Clinton got the U.N. to approve the U.S. going into Haiti -- and to take over when he wanted to get out. In Bosnia, the U.S. and its allies used the U.N. when it suited them and then bounced it in favor of a NATO military operation to stop the killing, plus make Bosnians love each other.
Each time, U.S. combat troops were under U.S. command, platoon to President. That was true too about U.S. combat troops killed in Somalia, whose deaths were used in San Diego to demonize not the enemy but the U.N.
Yes, there are small units of U.S. soldiers assigned to observer or other "peacekeeping" duties under U.N. operational control. Of 28,000 troops from 71 countries, serving in scores of places around the world, only 786 are American. They were dispatched not by Cosmos Commander Boutros-Ghali but by U.S. Presidents for U.S. interests -- political, military or intelligence. Sometimes they report to a general of an allied nation. These U.S. units are officered by Americans responsible through the U.S. chain of command to the President.
The Republican position leaves a hole that James P. Rubin, the new foreign policy spokesman for the Clinton re-election campaign, drove right through: if carried out as policy, America would "lose an important tool to share the burden of solving problems of the new world, alienate key allies and have to choose between doing everything or doing nothing when the inevitable crisis affecting American interests arises."
The U.S. is the chief political and military beneficiary of the U.N. and also earns a pretty dollar from having U.N. headquarters in the U.S. It is also the chief deadbeat, more than $1 billion behind in dues, as usual.
And because of the Clintonians' sudden arrogant announcement that Washington would veto the re-election of Mr. Boutros-Ghali, the U.S. has rarely been more resented nor the Secretary General more popular. U.N. diplomats interpret the mugging of Mr. Boutros-Ghali as I do: a timorous act taken in fear that the Republicans might get some votes from their attacks against the U.N. and its Secretary General.
If Mr. Dole wins, and one day has to commit troops to action, he will surely not fail to seek a U.N. endorsement that could help U.S. forces win. The sensible time for Republicans to think of that is now, not when it becomes his duty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOMALIA (79%); HAITI (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOMALIA (79%); HAITI (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (69%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; BOUTROS-GHALI, BOUTROS (SEC GEN); ROSENTHAL, A M BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



454 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends the Day Mixed Amid Uncertainty Over Rates

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar ended higher against the yen but lower against most leading currencies yesterday in trading driven by uncertainty over whether the United States and German central banks would adjust interest rates this week.
Currency traders generally expected Federal Reserve policy makers to leave rates unchanged today, while many expected that the Bundesbank's central council might lower a key rate at its meeting on Thursday. But no traders were making any extraordinary bets ahead of either event. 
 "It's hard, this close to all that data, to take a position," said Graham Broyd, senior vice president-foreign exchange at NatWest Markets in New York. "We're in a holding pattern."
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar stood at 1.4872 marks, down from 1.4918 marks on Friday. The dollar traded at 107.81 yen, up from 107.70. The British pound fell to $1.5450 from $1.5481.
The dollar strengthened against the yen in Asian trading after the Japanese Finance Ministry said the July trade surplus fell by 38 percent from a year ago, reflecting the impact of growing imports in Japan. Its trade surplus has been shrinking sharply all year.
The trend has weakened the yen by decreasing demand for the currency from Japanese exporters returning profits from sales abroad.
"When the Japanese trade number came out people sold the yen on it," said Kisoo Park, senior dealer at the Bank of Boston. That strengthened the dollar and other currencies against the yen, Mr. Park said, "and basically that's been the whole day."
The mark's strength against the yen partly accounted for the dollar's weakness against the mark.
The mark also benefited from a selloff in the Italian lira on worries of a clash between the Government of Prime Minister Romano Prodi and the Communist Refounding Party.
Some traders also sold dollars to lock in profits from Friday, when the dollar hit its highest level against the mark since July 18 on speculation that the Bundesbank would lower its securities repurchase, or repo, rate, a key short-term rate that has stood at 3.3 percent since February.
Lower rates would help stimulate Germany's economy but hurt the mark by making holdings denominated in the currency less attractive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GERMAN MARK (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); BRITISH POUND (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); 

PERSON: ROMANO PRODI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



455 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: The Spoiler Returns

 BODY:
The political party that Ross Perot created one year ago to find and bankroll "someone who could really be a great President but doesn't have the financial resources" has located its man. He is Ross Perot, who has never doubted his potential for greatness but has chosen, this time around, to use less of his own money and more of the taxpayers' to achieve his goal. That may be a wise move on Mr. Perot's part, since his already slim chances have presumably been diminished by the fact that he is no longer a novelty.
With his folksy metaphors and his staccato speaking style, Mr. Perot added spice to the 1992 campaign. Whether he can be anything more than an annoyance this time around remains to be seen, but he is already irritating the Republicans. A deficit hawk, he adds an insistent whine to the chorus of criticism aimed at Bob Dole's and Jack Kemp's supply-side notion that they can return the country to solvency with a big tax cut. 
 There have always been two big questions about Mr. Perot. One is whether he has the temperament for the job. For all his homespun directness on economic issues, his behavior in 1992 reflected a manipulative, impatient, imperious man, poorly versed in the arts of compromise and negotiation. He does not seem to have changed much. No sooner had Richard Lamm announced his candidacy for the Reform Party's nomination than Mr. Perot proclaimed that the nomination was his by divine right or something close to it. "The American people want me to do this," he said. "If anybody should do it, I should do it."
The other question involves his willingness to make choices. He speaks sparingly about important issues like civil rights, education, the environment and foreign policy. But even on economic questions, he is still promising to assemble the experts to peer under the hood to find out where the trouble is -- exactly what he said four years ago. On taxes, for example, he pledged in Sunday's acceptance speech to examine all the options "carefully, thoughtfully and rationally. We're going to use the computer as our wind tunnel. We'll nail it, give it to you and then move on to our next problem." Mr. Perot claims to be a man of action, but his favorite form of action is to appoint a study group.
He is expected to make a big issue of campaign finance reform and the need to restore the power of ordinary citizens by breaking the link between wealthy donors and legislative outcomes. That is an important matter that both major parties have ducked, but the process that produced Mr. Perot's nomination makes one wonder how serious he really is about participatory democracy.
First, Mr. Lamm had a terrible time getting his hands on a party membership list so he could send out some literature. Then many of the mail ballots arrived late. Mr. Lamm said that with less than a week to go before the nominating convention, neither he nor his daughter had received ballots. The telephone voting system also failed, in part because callers were not told how to identify themselves properly.
In any case, the process produced an astonishingly low turnout -- 49,226 valid votes, less than 5 percent of the total party membership. There may have been no foul play here, but for a man like Ross Perot who puts so much faith in technology and rhapsodizes about "electronic town halls" and push-button plebiscites, this display of ineptitude must have been mightily embarrassing.
The latest polls suggest Mr. Perot would get about 10 percent of the votes. He spent $60 million of his own money in 1992, and clawed his way back from 7 percent in the October polls to 18.9 percent on Election Day. This year he will spend $30 million in Federal money and whatever he can raise. That is still enough to underwrite the ads and the 30-minute infomercials that served him so well last time. He also has a knack for wheedling free TV time and is no slouch on the debating platform.
All of this makes him a possible spoiler -- but not a plausible or desirable alternative.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: REFORM PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REFORM PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; EDITORIALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); TAX LAW (71%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS ANN LIVERMORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



456 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: The Republican Riverboat Gamble

BYLINE: By Alan S. Blinder; Alan S. Blinder, a professor of economics at Princeton, was vice chairman of the Federal Reserve and a member of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers.

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N. J.

 BODY:
When Bob Dole decided to make a 15 percent across-the-board tax cut the centerpiece of his campaign, he must have been banking on a serious case of collective amnesia. America ran a huge supply-side experiment in the 1980's. The "riverboat gamble," as it was called by Howard H. Baker Jr., then the Senate majority leader, proved to be a losing one. The big tax cuts increased the deficit rather than economic growth.
Yet last week I listened as the Republican challenger attacked the alleged "slow growth" record of President Clinton and promised large tax cuts to fuel growth, increased defense outlays and spending cuts (which he couldn't specify) large enough to balance the budget. For a moment, I thought my TV was tuned to a 16-year-old rerun. 
 History has already rendered its verdict on supply-side economics, which holds that large tax cuts can substantially increase economic growth. But revisionists are rewriting the text. According to this new version, it all worked beautifully. Wait a minute. Earth to San Diego. A brief historical review is in order.
During the 1980 campaign, candidate Ronald Reagan endorsed supply-side economics, along with a proposal, sponsored by Representative Jack Kemp and Senator William V. Roth, for a 30 percent across-the-board reduction in income tax rates. Congress enacted a 25 percent cut in August 1981, with a few more goodies thrown in. Let's compare the promises with what actually happened.
Real growth. I still have a copy of the February 1981 White House document outlining the economic plan. It claimed that supply-side incentives would spectacularly raise the average growth rate of the gross domestic product over the coming years to more than 4 percent. But the facts turned out quite differently.
First, we suffered through the worst recession since the Great Depression, with unemployment soaring higher than 10 percent in 1982 and 1983. The tax cuts did not cause the recession; mostly, it was caused by the tight-fisted monetary policy of the Federal Reserve.
But let's not forget that the growing budget deficits of the 1980's contributed to the Fed's tight fists. And let's not forget, either, that long-term interest rates soared from about 10 percent in the summer of 1980 to more than 15 percent following the passage of the Reagan economic plan in August 1981, in part because investors were spooked by the prospect of mammoth deficits. That probably deepened the recession.
Supply-side revisionists have a favorite statistic: Growth following the recession was strong and sustained -- averaging 3.5 percent from 1983 to 1990. It's true. And the tax cuts played a role by raising consumer spending. But achieving rapid growth is no great feat when you start from a position of widespread unemployment. Raising the economy's long-run, sustainable growth rate -- what economists call "trend growth" -- is much harder, and was not done.
Focusing on growth from 1983 to 1990 is statistical sleight of hand, because economic conditions in those two years differed vastly. The unemployment rate averaged 9.6 percent in the recession year of 1983 and 5.5 percent in the peak year of 1990. The economy grew so rapidly between these years because the nation was snapping back from a deep recession, not because trend growth was higher. For a more honest estimate of growth, choose years with approximately equal unemployment -- say, 1981 (with 7.6 percent unemployment) and 1992 (with 7.4 percent). Growth over this 11-year period averaged only about 2.6 percent.
We can also use a common economic rule of thumb to measure this 1983 to 1990 growth rate. Each percentage point of unemployment represents about a two percentage point loss in gross domestic product. So the 4.1 point decline in unemployment from 1983 to 1990 can be seen as accounting for about 8.2 percent of growth over the seven years. Allowing for compounding, that is the equivalent of about 1.1 percentage points per year. Subtracting this from that boasted-about 3.5 percent average yields a reasonable estimate of trend growth in the seven years: 2.4 percent.
The conclusion is hard to escape. Sustainable growth in the 1980's was about 2.5 percent -- the same as, or even lower than, it had been before the big tax cuts.
The budget. The 1981 Republican team promised a balanced budget by fiscal 1984 despite huge tax cuts and increased defense spending. Tax revenues generated by rapid growth, we were told, would fill the budget gap. Yet the deficit in 1984 came in at $185 billion. What happened?
According to another favorite revisionist myth, the deficit ballooned not because tax receipts fell but because Congress failed to control spending. Let's ignore the inconvenient fact that Congress consistently appropriated about the amount that President Reagan's budgets requested, and look at the numbers.
The 1981 budget plan said receipts and outlays would balance in fiscal 1984 -- at about $772 billion each. But in 1984, actual receipts were only $667 billion, a $105 billion shortfall. It is true that at the same time outlays exceeded their target by $80 billion. But a good deal of this was the interest bill on the growing national debt. Interest payments rose by $42 billion from fiscal 1981 to fiscal 1984.
In short, the supply-side miracle failed to materialize, leaving revenues much lower and deficits vastly higher than promised.
Working and saving. Supply-side economics derives its name from the idea that lower tax rates will stimulate savings (and thus a larger supply of capital) and more work from the population (a larger labor supply). Did it work that way in the 1980's?
No. The personal savings rate fell -- from 8.2 percent of disposable income in 1982 to 6.9 percent in 1986 and 4.8 percent in 1989. Nor was there a larger labor supply. The labor force grew at an average rate of 1.6 percent over those seven years, about the same as during the preceding four years.
In other words, the "supply" responses to lower tax rates -- which are the heart and soul of supply-side economics -- were a no-show in the 1980's. Consequently, growth did not accelerate, leaving an enormous revenue shortfall that expenditure cuts could not, or did not, cover. The failed experiment blew a giant hole in the budget that took 15 years to patch up. And it should have destroyed the credibility of supply-siders forever.
However, Mr. Dole, who was among the sternest critics of supply-side economics, has now become a believer. As a responsible Senate leader, he was instrumental in raising taxes and cutting spending to reverse the excesses of 1981. Yet now that the Government has finally gotten its deficit under control, he is urging us once again to take the riverboat gamble.
Perhaps he thinks that American voters, having forgotten the past, are condemned to repeat it. But perhaps they have not forgotten. We will find out in November.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); GREAT DEPRESSION (62%); VERDICTS (53%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; BINDER, ALAN S RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



457 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE BACKGROUND;
Kemp's Legacy as Housing Secretary: One of Ideas, Not Accomplishments

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19

 BODY:
As President Bush's Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Jack Kemp was known as an innovative thinker and virtually the only voice for the inner-city poor in an Administration with priorities elsewhere.
But a look at his record at the Housing Department shows that Mr. Kemp was unable to translate his ideas into solid accomplishments -- although others, after him, have begun to do so. 
 Instead of setting in place creative policies that would help the inner- city poor, Mr. Kemp often found that his ideas and policies were thwarted by a hostile, Democratic-controlled Congress, an uninterested Bush Administration, and what many saw as his own bureaucratic and managerial shortcomings and an unwillingness to compromise, even with potential allies.
"He was much more interested in the ideas he was promoting than he was in the nuts and bolts of how you get from point A to point B," said Cushing Dolbeare, a longtime advocate for low-income housing.
Nowhere was Mr. Kemp's failure more evident than in his highly touted program to encourage public-housing tenants to buy their apartments, an effort he advocated with the fervor of a Southern Baptist preacher and one that he declared would help poor tenants break the shackles of dependency.
But in the four years he headed the Housing Department, the agency succeeded in selling only 135 units -- all but three located in one apartment house in Washington -- out of a total public-housing inventory of 1.3 million apartments, town houses and single-family homes.
At the same time, as the only major official in the Bush Administration exhorting Republicans to be concerned about the problems of minorities and poor people, Mr. Kemp was popular with liberal black and Hispanic civil rights leaders.
"He talked that kind of inclusive, expansive talk," said the Rev. Jesse Jackson. "That's how he developed a reputation that gained him disfavor among the right-wing types and gained him an appreciation with people beyond his type."
Mr. Kemp is given credit for restoring integrity and morale to a department that had been ignored by President Reagan and battered by influence-peddling scandals under Mr. Reagan's Housing Secretary, Samuel R. Pierce Jr. After taking over the department in 1989, Mr. Kemp abolished a number of programs that were badly abused under Mr. Pierce's tenure, including an account that could be spent at the discretion of the Housing Secretary.
"It changed during Jack's tenure from an agency which was known for political wheeling and dealing to one that was squeaky clean," said Anna Kondratas, a former Assistant Housing Secretary under Mr. Kemp.
He also set about lifting sagging morale within the agency, sprucing up HUD's drab headquarters, making sure the cafeteria offered better food, even organizing and attending agency picnics that included everyone from undersecretaries to mail room clerks.
But beyond cleaning up the Housing Department, Mr. Kemp was largely ineffective in getting his pet projects implemented.
Housing experts say the program to sell public-housing units to the tenants who occupied them failed because the potential buyers were too poor to afford them or did not want to buy an apartment that usually needed extensive renovation, often in a crime-ridden, drug-infested development.
"He had this wild theory that all of the residents were sitting on the edge of their seats waiting to purchase the units they were living in," said Richard Nelson, executive director of the National Association of Housing and Redevelopment, a group representing agencies that manage public-housing and community redevelopment programs. "The condition of public housing is misunderstood by many. While there are units that are livable and decent, they are generally not what people necessarily want to have as their permanent home."
Mr. Kemp was also unable to win approval in Congress of his other major policy initiative: enterprise zones in cities, in which, he hoped, tax incentives would revitalize blighted neighborhoods. That failure, some critics said, stemmed as much as anything from Mr. Kemp's unwillingness to compromise.
He insisted that cuts in taxes, particularly on capital gains, be the only incentive.
But many Democrats in Congress, and city officials, thought that a mix of tax incentives, government money and social-service programs were needed.
"Kemp has little credibility in this field because at every opportunity to choose between practical political compromise to benefit low-income communities and his supply-side dogma, he consistently chose the latter," said Richard H. Cowden, executive director of the American Association of Enterprise Zones, which represents cities and states that have set up enterprise zones. "He actually set back the clock in this field by staking out a position that guaranteed a political stalemate on policies towards cities."
In keeping with his professed concern about civil rights, Mr. Kemp initiated a number of innovative programs to root out discrimination against blacks and Hispanics by insurance companies and mortgage lenders. Those programs led to suits against such insurance giants as State Farm and Allstate, the largest provider of homeowners' insurance in the country.
But under Mr. Kemp, the Housing Department, never developed efficient means to investigate complaints of housing discrimination, a role Congress had given the agency in 1988. As a result, by the time Mr. Kemp left office, a backlog had built up of more than 480 complaints that had not been investigated.
But if he lacked follow-through, Mr. Kemp is acknowledged to have been a visionary who promoted ideas that eventually became Federal and state policy.
States have set up more than 800 enterprise zones since, as Housing Secretary, Mr. Kemp became the first Federal official to advocate them. Last year the Clinton Administration designated "empowerment zones" -- enterprise zones by another name -- in 12 cities.
Last week, Housing Secretary Henry G. Cisneros announced a new initiative to help 25,000 tenants in public housing buy homes by the year 2000. Unlike Mr. Kemp's program, however, these tenants would not necessarily buy the apartments they are renting.
But backers and critics agree that Mr. Kemp's most important legacy was fighting to prevent the agency and, by extension the plight of big cities, from being forgotten.
"I think Jack Kemp was good because he was outspoken for the department," said Shanna Smith, executive director of the National Fair Housing Alliance. "He wasn't ashamed to be working there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: As Housing Secretary, Jack Kemp was the only Bush Administration official to push for the inner cities. His stand was more popular with liberal minority leaders than with fellow Republicans. In 1989 he visited Harlem with its Democratic Congressman, Charles B. Rangel, right, and others. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (58%); HOUSING DEPARTMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (58%); HOUSING DEPARTMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; URBAN AREAS; BLACKS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HOUSING AUTHORITIES (94%); POLITICS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (68%); 

PERSON: KEMP, JACK F; BUSH, GEORGE; HOLMES, STEVEN A GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



458 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
Dole's Plan and Its High Hurdles

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19

 BODY:
Since unveiling his plan to slash taxes and still balance the Federal budget by 2002, Bob Dole has argued that overcoming the economic and political hurdles in its way is simply a question of Presidential will. "I have it," he said. "I will do it."
But if he defeats President Clinton and wants to keep the promises that he has placed at the heart of his campaign, Mr. Dole will have to translate his fortitude into far deeper reductions in Federal spending than anything contemplated so far by even the most fervent Republican budget cutters. 
 By his own accounting, Mr. Dole would have to cut so deeply into a whole array of domestic programs that he would effectively be asking the electorate to accept a far more modest vision of government, and one able to make harder choices than the political system has yet been willing to confront.
Mr. Dole has made his already daunting task even more difficult by exempting from any cuts roughly two-thirds of Federal spending, on Social Security, Medicare (except for the reductions in projected spending that are outlined by the Republican Congress in its current budget proposal), the military and interest payments on the national debt.
All that is left are the basic domestic operations of the Government, a broad range of programs that would have to be cut by about 37 percent from current levels by 2002, after accounting for inflation, to meet Mr. Dole's goal, budget analysts say.
The current Republican budget proposal in Congress, by contrast, would cut these so-called domestic discretionary programs by 24 percent, and even at that level is widely considered to be at the high end of what is politically feasible, or beyond.
If the arguably optimistic economic assumptions that Mr. Dole's plan rests on do not pan out, the need for spending cuts would become that much greater. The plan assumes, for example, that tax cuts can pay in part for themselves, by generating greater economic activity; that some categories of tax receipts can be maintained at their current high levels, and that there will be no recession in the next six years.
As it is, Mr. Dole's budget plan makes no provision for the cost of another campaign promise, a national anti-missile defense, a program that at a minimum would cost tens of billions of dollars. And while Mr. Dole has pledged not to touch Social Security or to reduce Medicare spending below the levels contemplated in the current Republican budget, even some of his former Congressional colleagues, including Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, have suggested that these politically sensitive entitlement programs would have to be a part of any credible package of cuts, because of their sheer size.
"The Dole people will maintain with straight faces from now until November that the necessary cuts will be anonymous, painless reductions that will not affect you or anyone you know and that will come out of waste, fraud and abuse and excessive administrative costs," said Martha Phillips, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a fiscal watchdog group with bipartisan backing.
"People who have been around the budget process know that the easy savings were used in the 1980's," she said. "We're now talking about going deeply into all the services and other kinds of benefits that people think of as being their government: the air traffic controllers, the national parks, the immigration service, aid to education, agricultural and medical research, law enforcement. We would need to make the decision that government should not be in certain activities."
Democrats are already asking whether Republicans would be willing to vote for reducing the number of F.B.I. or Border Patrol agents, or to eliminate road-building projects in their home districts, or to eliminate tax breaks for their biggest campaign contributors.
White House officials are planning to use the budget-cutting issue against Mr. Dole, saying the Republican candidate's plan will give voters a choice between cuts far more extreme than most Americans are willing to tolerate and the risk that the budget deficit will expand once more.
Even some Republicans are urging caution. In his speech to the Republican National Convention last week, Colin L. Powell urged the party never to "step back from compassion," and added, "We must make sure that reduced government spending doesn't single out just the poor and the middle class."
Mr. Dole has said he would use the line-item veto, which will be available to the next President, to enforce the fiscal discipline he is calling for. On the campaign trail in the last few days, he maintained that the necessary spending cuts could be enacted without the pain that Democrats are arguing would be necessary.
"The scaremongers are working overtime," Mr. Dole said at a campaign stop on Sunday. "We're going to balance the budget and cut your taxes without touching Social Security or Medicare, and don't let them try to scare you."
But Mr. Dole has offered only a few details of where he would find the savings necessary to pay for his $548 billion tax cut and a balanced budget.
He has proposed cutting $32 billion from the Energy Department's budget over the next six years, a level that would correspond roughly to eliminating the department's nonmilitary activities, including all research into energy conservation and alternative energy sources. And he has proposed taking $15 billion from the Commerce Department over six years, more than half its budget and a level that would force difficult decisions about financing the Census Bureau, the National Weather Service, the gathering of basic economic statistics and aid to exporters, among other programs.
The Dole plan starts by assuming a $147 billion gain in revenue over six years from a spurt in economic growth resulting from tax reduction and other elements of the candidate's program. The plan also counts on all the cuts included in the current Republican Congressional budget resolution, $393 billion over six years, among them a reduction of $158 billion in previously projected spending on Medicare and other cuts that Democrats have been arguing, to some political effect, are extreme.
The plan then goes on to require an additional $183 billion in spending cuts, plus $34 billion in new revenue from the sale of broadcast frequencies (on top of $19 billion from frequency sales already counted on in the current budget resolution).
A report on the Dole plan by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research organization, said, "If some activities" in discretionary domestic spending "are not cut 37 percent -- for example, activities such as border patrols, veterans' health care, administering Social Security and the operations of Federal prisons -- other programs in this area would have to be cut substantially deeper." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (65%); MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



459 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Russia Outstrips U.S. as Chief Arms Seller to Developing Nations

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19

 BODY:
Russia, eager to bolster its economy with the hard currency it earns from the sale of everything from bullets to jet fighters, surpassed the United States and France last year as the largest arms seller to the developing world, according to a new Congressional report.
The report by the Congressional Research Service calculated that Russian arms sales to developing nations rebounded from a slump that set in after the breakup of the Soviet Union, growing by 62 percent last year -- to $6 billion in 1995 from $3.7 billion in 1994 -- and that its most important buyer was China. 
 "Russia has made significant efforts to gain arms agreements with developing nations that can pay cash for their purchases," the report said. "With Russia now having an emerging market economy, domestic defense industries also have greater freedom to promote the sale of their weaponry."
Russian arms merchants had a banner year even as the overall market for arms in the developing world continued to shrink, falling to $15.4 billion last year, the fifth consecutive year that total arms sales have shown a decline. As recently as 1988, arms sales to developing countries totaled $61 billion.
According to the annual study by the research service, an arm of Congress, sales by American defense contractors to developing nations fell from $6.3 billion in 1994 to $3.8 billion last year, which left the United States in second place among the world's arms merchants. French sales to the developing world dropped to $2.7 billion last year from $8.9 billion in 1994, pushing it to third place.
While the report offered little analysis of the strategic implications of these shifts among arms sellers, it made clear that some nations are so eager for their share of a shrinking international arms market that they may be selling destabilizing weapons, including ballistic missiles, to developing nations.
The report singled out China as a nation that has "demonstrated its readiness to sell such weapons to any state that sought them," even if that meant violating international accords on arms transfers. In recent years, China has sold missiles to Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.
The report defined the developing world as all nations except the United States, Russia, Western Europe, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. The developing nations, it said, accounted for slightly more than half of all arms purchases worldwide last year.
The report's author, Richard F. Grimmett, said the sharp drop in weapons sales to the developing world reflected the end both of the cold war and of a period of rearmament in the Middle East after the 1991 war in the Persian Gulf.
"As competition over a shrinking international arms market intensifies, it is likely that suppliers such as France, Russia and the United Kingdom may routinely shift in their rankings relative to one another and to the United States," the report said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); FRANCE (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GULF STATES (67%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHINA; UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); FRANCE (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GULF STATES (67%); INDIAN OCEAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMS SALES ABROAD; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ARMS TRADE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); COLD WAR (79%); CURRENCIES (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); RANKINGS (77%); TRENDS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



460 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Economy Grew 7.2% in Mexico Last Quarter, a Sign of Revival

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 19

 BODY:
In its latest and strongest indication that a long-awaited recovery was solidly under way, Mexico announced late Sunday that the economy grew by 7.2 percent in the second quarter.
The figure, which was based on a comparison with the second quarter of 1995, exceeded analysts' expectations and was the first economic growth Mexico had reported since the beginning of the devastating crisis that followed the peso's devaluation in December 1994. 
 The economic surge was a vindication of the harsh financial-stabilization program pursued by President Ernesto Zedillo, whose policies have had strong backing from the Clinton Administration, including an emergency loan last year of $12.5 billion. Despite skepticism on Wall Street, Mexican officials have insisted for the last nine months that growth would resume in the first half of 1996 and reach at least 3 percent for the year.
Given Sunday's report, such annual growth seems clearly possible. The 7.2 percent figure is the highest quarterly increase in output Mexico has had since the end of 1990, at the start of a four-year boom. Market analysts were predicting 5.8 percent.
"The question now is not whether this country will grow 3 percent this year, but how it can sustain the even faster rates of growth it needs," said Deputy Finance Minister Jose Sidaoui Dib. Over all, the economy shrank nearly 7 percent last year. And economists noted that the comparable period in 1995 had been the worst in the crisis, with a nearly 10 percent contraction.
As a sign that the markets had already expected stronger growth in Mexico, the main stock market index here fell 1.09 percent today to finish at 3,324.67, as traders focused on whether the Federal Reserve would change interest rates in the United States. The Mexican market hit a high for the year on Friday and has been rallying since for several weeks. Late today, the peso traded at 7.4850 to the dollar.
The resumption of growth in Mexico is a happy prospect for the United States. American exports here, which had been expected to flourish with the North American Free Trade Agreement, have been as depressed as the Mexican economy. But Mexico's exports have thrived, with this country reporting an overall trade surplus for the first half of the year of $4.13 billion, up 29 percent from the first half of 1995. American officials expect that the signs of reviving demand will translate before the end of the year into record imports of goods from the United States.
The growth was led by areas like manufacturing that are heavily oriented toward exports and had already showed strong signs of life. But there were surprises, too. A category including retailers that do business with average consumers jumped 7.9 percent, suggesting that the severe pinch in family budgets was beginning to ease.
The crisis was deepened because many middle-class Mexicans had begun to spend on credit for the first time and were caught by the devaluation with personal and home loans they could not repay.
Although nearly 48 percent of bank loans were past due at the end of July, the overdue-loan portfolio not only stopped growing but showed a small decrease last month, according to SAC International, which monitors the Mexican banking system. Consumers are getting some relief from a gradual decline in interest rates, though the benchmark 28-day Mexican Treasury certificate is still at 26.63 percent.
In other good economic news, the census bureau reported that unemployment continued to fall in July -- to 5.8 percent from 7.3 percent a year ago. Those figures, however, include only the hard-core unemployed and do not tell anything about the millions of Mexicans who moonlight as cab drivers, sell windshield covers at street corners, or have taken up other informal work to make ends meet.
In addition, inflation is slowing, rising 1.4 percent in July compared with June. Economists predict that it will increase less in August.
Probably the most important effect of all this is to enhance the credibility of Mr. Zedillo's Government among foreign investors and officials. This growing confidence allowed Mexico to refinance through private foreign banks, at more favorable terms, all but $3.5 billion of the bailout money the Clinton Administration provided last year and to pay down $1 billion of $12.7 billion owed to the International Monetary Fund. Mexican markets have stabilized, and the turbulence of most of 1995 seems gone.
"This Government has demonstrated it has a sound approach to managing its liabilities," said Lawrence Goodman, head of Latin American economic research for Salomon Brothers.
Lately, Mr. Zedillo and top finance officials have been more cautious than many Wall Street analysts in describing Mexico's state of affairs. The President paid a steep price for the approach of his predecessor, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, who had touted Mexico's rapid development when much of the capital came from volatile portfolio investments that vanished when the peso fell into trouble.
Earlier this month, Mr. Zedillo warned a gathering of state governors that it would take several more years for Mexico to climb back to the standard of living before the crisis. The President said he would be "cheating the people" to suggest that they would see full recovery in their day-to-day lives before then.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Unexpected Growth" tracks growth, as measured from the same quarter a year earlier, in Mexico's gross domestic product, from the first quarter of 1994 through the second quarter of 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) (pg. D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); DEVALUATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (61%); RETAILERS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JULIA; ZEDILLO, ERNESTO (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



461 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Metropolitan Life Deal Cleared by New York

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
New York State officials have approved a merger of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and the New England Mutual Life Insurance Company, removing the last significant hurdle the deal faces.
A spokesman for the Department of Insurance said yesterday that the agency had notified Met Life of its approval on Friday. Officials of both companies said a formal closing was scheduled for Aug. 30. It will be the largest merger ever in the mutual life insurance field, industry officials say. 
 Met Life, the second-largest American life insurer, brought to the deal about $150 billion in insurance assets. The new company will have more than $166 billion in assets, still trailing the Prudential Insurance Company of America, the nation's largest, officials of the merging firms said.
"We think it's good for policyholders and for both companies," said Terry Lennon, the senior vice president for mergers and acquisitions at Met Life. "The two companies really complement each other very well. They are very strong in the small- business market and we are strong in the large institutional market. They sell to high-net-worth individuals where our strength is in the middle-income market."
Met Life has 40 million policyholders and New England Mutual has about one million, company officials said.
The merger had been threatened by an advocacy group in Boston, the Center for Insurance Research, which contended that a consolidation would diminish the financial value and voting power of New England policyholders. But a Massachusetts state judge refused to issue an injunction and that state's insurance department gave the merger its approval last Wednesday.
John Calagna, the spokesman for New York's insurance department, said that state regulators did not consider the objections of the Center for Insurance Research when they reviewed the merger.
"That litigation was against the Massachusetts insurance department," he said. "Our job was to look at whether it made sense for the two corporate entities and whether it made sense for the policyholders."
Met Life officials said that a handful of the other 48 states in which the two companies do business were required to endorse the plan, but one official said there was "no reason to expect that they won't."
Consolidations have been occurring throughout the industry as insurers try to amass greater pools of capital and market share to become efficient and improve their ratings.
Eric N. Berg, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Company, said the merger would lead to significant economies by eliminating overlapping positions. "It means your unit costs of administering a policy falls," he said. "This means either more profit or you can cut your price and be more competitive."
Peter Harrington, a vice president of New England Mutual, said Met Life's great financial strength would raise the ratings his company receives from insurance-rating agencies. The ratings for New England Mutual, which will continue to operate as an independent unit, slipped from the highest level in 1992 as its real estate holdings lost value and its investment income fell.
"We deal with a lot of third-party advisers -- lawyers and accountants -- and they are very impressed with ratings," Mr. Harrington said. "Our sales are up 10 percent just in anticipation of the merger." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (93%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW ENGLAND MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO; METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO NEW ENGLAND MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (94%); METLIFE INC (93%); PRUDENTIAL INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (70%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (61%); NEW YORK (60%); CENTER FOR INSURANCE RESEARCH (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO; METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO NEW YORK (60%); CENTER FOR INSURANCE RESEARCH (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LIFE INSURANCE; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES LIFE INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE (91%); MERGERS (91%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (67%); LITIGATION (64%); INJUNCTIONS (64%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); MARKET SHARE (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (51%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B PETER HARRINGTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



462 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE GREEN PARTY;
Ralph Nader Is Nominated for President, but Vows He Will Ignore His Party's Platform

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 19

 BODY:
In a political development with a long-shot potential to cause President Clinton some re-election trouble, the Green Party, an offspring of the anti-nuclear and environmental movements, today nominated Ralph Nader, the consumer advocate, to carry its banner in the fall.
Mr. Nader, somewhat out of the national limelight in recent years, readily accepted the nomination, whose November portent lies in the fact that in the dozen or so states where the Green Party is on the ballot, most notably California, he still has good name recognition and a following that, while small, could be crucial in a close Clinton-Dole-Perot race. 
 But ever the iconoclast, Mr. Nader picked up the Green banner without facing any opposition, then promptly declared that he would neither join the Green Party nor run on its platform, which calls for things like "ecological wisdom," "gender cooperation" and "future focus."
Further, he said, he will neither raise nor accept any campaign financing -- and most definitely will take no contributions from corporate America, which he termed the enemy of voters and the real target of his campaign, much as it was 30 years ago, when he first captured the national limelight with his crusade for automobile safety.
Mr. Nader promised to put up $5,000 of his own money (though not to disclose how he got it) so he could make "some very brief sojourns" around the country in search of free campaign publicity, giving interviews to any and all media comers.
"I'm an independent," he said in what may have been the most obvious political statement uttered to date in the '96 campaign.
Three hundred or so Greens gathered here from around the country for their first national nominating convention; the party claims a membership of 100,000, most of them Californians. Mr. Nader told the gathering that he did not hold out any hope that he would make it to the White House next January or, for that matter, that he would make it onto the ballot in all 50 states in November, but that was not the real point of the exercise. The Greens, like Mr. Nader, are in something of a state of political transition, looking for new causes and venues.
"What we're doing is building for the future," Mr. Nader said. "It's gotten so you can't tell Democrats from Republicans anymore in this country. They're both totally beholden to corporate America, and the great American public be dammed. We intend to offer a realistic third choice -- if not this year, then in the next election. That's what the people want, more and more."
While Mr. Nader had plenty of harsh words for Republicans and Democrats alike, he saved the harshest for the Democrats, and for President Clinton in particular, labeling him a "Rep-Dem hybrid."
In the few election polls that have included Mr. Nader as a candidate, he has seldom broken into double digits. What support he has shown has tended to come at Mr. Clinton's expense rather than Bob Dole's.
Mike Feinstein, a Green Party organizer from Santa Monica, Calif., praised Mr. Nader as someone who was not so much a Presidential candidate as the catalyst of revolutionary change, someone deep in the process of saving the American political system from collapse.
"Ralph is forcing people in this country to think what they want to do about the two-party system," Mr. Feinstein said. "That's what this convention is really all about."
Cris Moore, attending the convention from Santa Fe, N.M., agreed, saying the Green Party was no longer "a single-issue environmental party."
"What we starting to do," Mr. Moore said, "is combine social and economic concerns. The biggest issue in the country now is corporate power, and Ralph and the rest of us are facing up to that. The other parties just aren't addressing it."
The conventioneers here were not delegates in the traditional sense, just as the convention here was absent of most of the hoopla usually associated with nominating gatherings. In each of the 12 states where the Green Party is on the ballot, party members held their own nominating caucuses and then sent representatives to Los Angeles to report on the results -- that is, that Mr. Nader was their choice.
Mr. Feinstein predicted that his party and Mr. Nader would be on the fall ballot in at least 30 states by the end of the summer, perhaps more. He said the states that had already listed the party are Alaska, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Iowa, Maine, Nevada, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Utah.
Richard Winger, a San Franciscan who monitors ballot access nationally and publishes a newsletter called Ballot Access News, questioned whether the party would make it onto 30 ballots.
"They're not that well organized," Mr. Winger said, "and they don't have any money. My guess is they'll be lucky to make 20 ballots. And if Nader doesn't campaign hard, which is the way he's been talking, I don't seen where the momentum is going to come from for the fall campaign."
 
RALPH NADER
At his nomination yesterday as the Green Party's Presidential candidate in Los Angeles:
"Many Americans who call themselves liberals have so lowered their expectations about what politics can mean to this nation's future that they are settling for diminishing returns. Politics has been corrupted not just by money but by being trivialized out of addressing the great, enduring issues of who controls, who decides, who owns, who pays, who has a voice and access, and why solutions available on the shelf are not applied to the existing and looming crises of our society, both local and global.
One thing politicians do understand is rejection. When voters are deciding how they wish to use their vote, they should ask themselves how best to send a clear message. The Greens and other progressives are in the early building stages of a people-first, democratic political movement for future years. They deserve our attention because they are centering on the basic issues of representative government, one of whose purposes is to strengthen the usable tools of democracy, the other, in Thomas Jefferson's prophetic words, is "to curb the excesses of the monied interests."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph Nader, at a news conference yesterday in Los Angeles after accepting the Green Party's nomination for President. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GREEN PARTY GREEN PARTY (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREEN PARTY GREEN PARTY (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US GREEN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (51%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; NADER, RALPH RALPH NADER (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



463 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Anticipting the Fed: Moods Swing With the Data

BYLINE: By PATRICK J. LYONS 

 BODY:
Maybe the inflation wolf wasn't baying at the door after all.
 The Federal Reserve Board's Open Market Committee meets today and is widely expected to leave short-term interest rates as they are, just as it did at its meeting in early July. But the consensus opinion about what the Fed would do has doen a lot of gyrating in between.
 When the committee wrapped up business the afternoon before the Fourth of July, the Fed's inaction seemed to say the economy was growing moderately and inflation was safely in check.
 Then, right after the holiday, the Labor Department released a surprisingly strong employment report for June, including sharp increases in total employment and in average wages. Analysts immediately speculated that a too-sanguine Fed committee had been caught off balance by the strong jobs data; interest rates would have to be raised at the next meeting to keep the economy from overheating. Both the stock and bond markets plunged that Friday in thin trading.
 With six more weeks of data to examine, though, it now appears that the instant analysis was overheated, not the economy. Growth looks moderate again, and threats of inflation seem muted and distant.
 Here are some economic tea leaves that have swirled since the great inflation flap of early July and how the markets read them. PATRICK J. LYONS

GRAPHIC: Table lists economics signals, accompanied by their implications with respect to job growth and the rate of inflation, from July 3 through August 18.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (75%); BOND MARKETS (73%); BONDS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: LYONS, PATRICK J

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



464 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Balkan Economies Stagnate In Grip of Political Leaders

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina

 BODY:
When Western powers look at the Balkans these days, they often gauge progress by the number of weapons stilled, roads opened and refugees trudging home.
An equally important measure has received little attention: the liberalizing of economies that are largely Government-run and, in a sense, balkanized. 
 Though the Dayton peace accords have stopped the military conflict, the leaders of Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia have refused to loosen their grip on the economies that gave each of them a power base during the war, say Western economists, business leaders and Government officials.
By perpetuating their fiefs built on spoils and patronage, the politicians are obstructing the economic changes -- and development of entrepreneurs and regional markets -- that could help dilute the virulent nationalism that propelled the conflict.
"Nationalist desires are totally inconsistent with the needs of economic integration," said Milan Panic, the corporate leader who served as Prime Minister of what remained of Yugoslavia in 1992, before he fell out with the Serbian leader, Slobodan Milosevic.
Mr. Panic, the chief executive of ICN Pharmaceuticals, a California-based manufacturer, argues that Western assistance to the Balkans should be granted only on the condition that the countries open up their economies.
"Economic prosperity is the prerequisite for long-term peace, and expanding trade among all the Balkan states will lead to that prosperity," Mr. Panic said during a recent visit to Belgrade to see how his factories in Serbia fared during three years of United Nations sanctions.
Foreign investors flocked to Serbia early this year when peace was new, and left disappointed that the economy remained under Goverment control. And even now, Mr. Panic, who describes himself as an optimist, said he did not see reforms happening soon.
In Serbia and Bosnia, the top political leaders are resisting privatization. A plan by Dragoslav Avramovic to revive a Serbian economy shattered by sanctions led to his abrupt dismissal as head of the Central Bank because he called for an end to state monopolies and the creation of a privatization program.
In Croatia, privatization of state property is moving ahead a little faster but often favors leading members of President Franjo Tudjman's party, the Croatian Democratic Union, at the expense of outside bidders, Western economists say.
All over the region, loans for business start-ups remain almost unattainable from Government-controlled banks. Import-export licenses and the tariff barriers from which politicians-cum-war-profiteers made fortunes persist.
Air, rail and telephone links that would help citizens move about and foster business are slow in coming because of fear of competition against Government monopolies.
A trade delegation of senior Bosnian officials that went to Belgrade in July, the first since the start of the war four years ago, was seen as a symbolic start to re-establishing old trade networks. But it produced few concrete results.
"There is no economy in Bosnia, because there is a general feeling here that broken-down state companies are an asset when in fact they are a liability," said Kevin Mannion, director of the International Management Group, a United Nations reconstruction agency that has been working in Sarajevo for three years.
Foreign investment has failed to materialize because Western companies and financial institutions are leery of sinking money into bankrupt state-run agencies, Mr. Mannion said. In general, Western financial assistance to Bosnia has been far lower than was envisioned immediately after the Dayton accords, but donor countries were dissuaded by the fact that the Government remained in firm control of the economy and there were no signs of imminent privatization.
In many instances, the heads of Bosnia's important Government agencies, like the major utility, Electropiverta, are also senior members of the governing political party, the Party of Democratic Action.
Officials close to President Alija Izetbegovic run the state television and have effectively blocked the start-up of an independent, Western-financed television network, American officials said.
The Bosnian officials' refusal, which has become an issue between the State Department and the Bosnian Government, is based on the fear that Mr. Izetbegovic and his party would lose control and lose money in the face of a viable commercial television network, the Americans said.
In Serbia, the stranglehold on the economy exercised by Mr. Milosevic, a former Communist banker, is even more stark. Rather than forget his old ideology, as some Western negotiators hoped after the Dayton accords, he has reverted to a more tightly controlled state-run economy.
That is because Mr. Milosevic believes that economic power, even in the debilitated Serbian economy, is the most certain method of keeping political control, his critics assert.
Mr. Milosevic gets strong support in his economic policies from his wife, Mirjana Markovic, the head of the largest political group in Serbia, the Yugoslav United Left.
Mrs. Markovic, who has described herself as an admirer of the Chinese Government but criticizes its economic program as being too market-oriented, has said privatization is unconstitutional in Serbia.
Key elements of the Serbian economy -- fuel, agriculture, exports-imports -- were controlled by Mr. Milosevic's cronies during the war and remain so.
The general manager of Progres, Serbia's biggest export firm and the leading importer of Russian gas, is the Prime Minister, Mirko Marjanovic. The speaker of Parliament, Dragan Tomic, is the head of Jugopetrol, Serbia's biggest fuel distributor.
Because these companies represent an enormous source of wealth for these politicians, they oppose any notion of a market economy, Serbian economists say.
When United Nations sanctions were suspended earlier this year, Western economists hoped that the Serbian economy would perk up. Instead, while the Milosevic coterie -- including the President's son, who recently opened a disco called Madonna -- gets richer, daily life for ordinary Serbs hovers at a subsistence level. Unemployment remains around 50 percent, and workers in state companies, where production is often at a standstill, are left unpaid for months on end.
Emboldened by popular support, Mr. Avramovic, a former World Bank official who is well respected in the West, pleaded for economic reforms to attract new capital while he served in the Serbian Government. Official foreign currency reserves slumped to less than $300 million this year, the lowest figure in Europe, including Albania, the banker warned.
But Mr. Avramovic was humiliated by Mr. Milosevic, who engineered a vote in Parliament to dismiss him.
"They want things to stay as they are because they have the best of all worlds," Mr. Avramovic said in an interview. "You have companies run by general managers appointed by one political leader. These are feudal fiefs held by one man. If you privatize, you lose control -- you convert your country from a tightly controlled society to an amorphous society where you don't know what to expect."
Under Mr. Milosevic's guidance, the economic system was dominated by 120 companies, Mr. Avramovic said. The heads of these concerns were all Government and political appointees and represented Serbia's main producers, exporters, importers and the banks, he said.
Several Western diplomats said that in recent negotiations, Mr. Milosevic had repeatedly asked for the lifting of the "outer wall" of sanctions that prevent Serbia from joining the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
But since financial help from these institutions requires economic reforms, it remains a mystery how Mr. Milosevic proposed to meet these demands, a diplomat said.
A Serbian economist at the Vienna Institute for Comparative Economics, Vladimir Gligorov, said he believed that the Serbian leader was tightening his control of the state-run economy and parts of the huge black market as November elections approach.
Under those circumstances, Mr. Gligorov said, the financial needs of Serbia will continue to be met by offshore banks in Cyprus. There, Borka Vucic, a close colleague of the Serbian leader, heads the branch of Beobanka, Serbia's biggest bank, where Mr. Milosevic was a director before he devoted himself to stoking the fires of nationalism.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); SERBIA (96%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL BANK (53%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; CROATIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (97%); SERBIA (96%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (58%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; PRIVATIZATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PRIVATIZATION (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (85%); REFUGEES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); TRENDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (70%); STARTUPS (69%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); EXPORT CONTROLS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (57%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; TUDJMAN, FRANJO (PRES) JOSEPH C PAPA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



465 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Black Buying Power Spurts, Study Finds

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 19

 BODY:
Black Americans' buying power increased sharply last year, helping black households outpace white households in the increase on spending for cars, children's clothing and perishable foods, a new study has found.
The findings show that black consumers are becoming increasingly important to the American economy, said Ken Smikle, editor of the study, which was performed by Target Market News Inc., a Chicago company that specializes in analyzing the black consumer market. 
 "Even though African-Americans are only roughly 13 percent of the population, they're starting to have a significant influence on many categories," Mr. Smikle said. "When you're talking about billions of dollars to be made or lost, businesses have to sit up and take notice."
The study estimated that personal income among blacks rose to $324 billion in 1995, from $304.5 billion a year earlier.
It found that black households spent $10.8 billion on new cars and trucks last year, a 163 percent increase over the $4.1 billion spent a year earlier. While white households spent more in the aggregate on cars and trucks, the increase among them was just 9 percent from a year earlier.
The study also found that the average black household spent $1,592 a year on clothing, somewhat less than the $1,650 in clothing purchases by the average white household.
But on clothing for children under 15, the black household outspent the white household by about 10 percent, $292 to $265.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: TARGET MARKET NEWS INC

ORGANIZATION: TARGET MARKET NEWS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BLACKS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); 

PERSON: KEN SMIKLE (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



466 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Slip as Traders Wait on Fed

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dipped slightly in a quiet session yesterday, as market participants awaited today's Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates.
Though few traders expected the Fed's Open Market Committee to raise rates, a small number of them bid prices down to protect against the possibility of an increase. Traders said that other market influences yesterday included hedge funds, which were said to be selling Treasury securities, and the thin trading volume, which was said to exaggerate the price drops. 
 By the close of trading in New York, the 30-year Treasury bond was down 13/32 to a price of 99 15/32; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, rose to 6.79 percent, from 6.76 percent on Friday.
"That the market is backing up today, ahead of tomorrow's Federal Open Market Committee meeting is not that shocking," said David Shabelman, an analyst with MMS International in San Francisco. "Although no one expects the Fed to tighten rates, that is where the risk is."
A case could be made for a rate increase as a pre-emptive measure against inflation, he said: "Given today's losses, a steady policy decision would now lead to more of a relief rally than may have otherwise been seen."
"Many people weren't in to buy," Mr. Shabelman added, "even though they aren't expecting the Fed to do anything. And the reasoning behind that is, you just don't want to be on the wrong side in the event they do do something."
Even though commodity prices moved higher yesterday, they only had a limited impact. The Commodity Research Bureau index surged nearly 2.5 points.
While a sharp rise in the September crude oil contract to $23 a barrel did contribute to a rise in the index, oil gains were mostly limited to the September contract, which expires today. Moreover, there are those who still expect prices to retreat when oil from Iraq reaches the market.
Still, the bond market has not been paying attention because it has been more interested in the core rates of inflation, which exclude the volatile prices for oil and food.
Short-term rates at the Treasury's regular weekly sale of bills yesterday were up slightly in what was described as a well-bid auction. The average rate for a three-month maturity was 5.06 percent, up from 5.04 percent last week, while the rate for a six-month maturity was 5.13 percent, up from 5.08 percent.
Analysts said the market focused on the Fed's rate-policy meeting because no important data were scheduled to be released until Friday, when durable-goods orders for July are expected.
In the corporate market, the volume of issuance is expected to slow this week since many corporations have already taken advantage of lower rates. Tepid investor demand forced Sprint Spectrum L.P., a wireless telecommunications company, to revamp and scale back its plans to raise as much as $650 million.
Owned by a partnership of the Sprint Corporation, Tele-Communications Inc., the Comcast Corporation, and the Cox Communications arm of Cox Enterprises, Sprint Sectrum is now trying to raise $520 million through the issuance of junk bonds. The issue is rated B-2 by Moody's and B+ by Standard & Poor's. Bonds that carry ratings of less than Baa-3 and BBB- respectively, are considered below investment grade, or junk.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.721	97.407	Discounted Rate	5.06%	5.13%	Coupon Yield	5.20%	5.34%	High Price	98.729	97.412	Discounted Rate	5.03%	5.12%	Coupon Yield	5.16%	5.33%	Low Price	98.720	97.407	Discounted Rate	5.06%	5.13%	Coupon Yield	5.20%	5.34%	Accepted at low price	17%	89%	Total applied for	$56,895,490	$44,613,154	Accepted	$12,724,936	$12,531,631	Noncompetitive	$1,437,072	$1,245,669	

Both issues are dated Aug. 22, 1996. The three-month bills mature on Nov. 21, 1996, and the six-month bills mature on Feb. 20, 1997.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, from mid-April through the third week of August. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (52%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FOOD PRICES (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); FACTORY ORDERS (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DAVID SHABELMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



467 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Sun International in Deal For Merv Griffin's Concern
Sun International Hotels agreed to acquire Griffin Gaming and Entertainment for $210 million in stock. Merv Griffin controls a quarter of the company and could realize about $52.5 million from the deal. The acquisition would give Sun ownership of the Resorts Casino Hotel in Atlantic City. [Page D4.]
 
Rival Offers in Mobile Homes
Manufactured Home Communities, controlled by Sam Zell, has offered to buy a rival, Chateau Properties, for $387.3 million. The offer seeks to derail Chateau's plans to merge with another rival, ROC Communities. [D5.]
 
$1 Million Deal for Cancer Society
SmithKline Beecham will pay $1 million a year to the American Cancer Society and put the society's name on its Nicoderm patches. [D2.]
 
Machines the Size of Bugs
Japanese companies are producing machines that are the size of a grain of rice. The companies, including Toyota, are hoping that miniature machines will become a booming business. [C1.]
 
Maybe Not Just a Question of Will
Bob Dole has argued that balancing the budget while cutting taxes is a question of Presidential will. But to keep his promises, Mr. Dole will need to make far deeper reductions in Federal spending than anything contemplated so far. News analysis. [A15.]
 
Insurance Merger Is Approved
New York regulators approved Metropolitan Life Insurance's merger with New England Mutual Life Insurance. [D2.]
 
Dow Industrials Up 9.99 Points
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 9.99 points, to 5,699.44 in lackluster trading, as investors awaited today's meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.74 points, to 1,130.91, reflecting continued weakness in technology shares. [D8.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities dropped slightly, sending the yield on the 30-year bond up to 6.79 percent ahead of the Fed meeting. [D15.]
 
Balkan Economies Stagnate
Despite the cessation of fighting in the Balkans, many of the economies in the region are still suffering, under the tight control of politicians exploiting bureaucratic and nationalist advantages. [A1.]
 
 
Toys 'R' Us Earnings Rise
Toys "R" Us said that its second-quarter earnings jumped 72 percent, to $27.1 million, or 10 cents a share, exceeding estimates. In the second quarter of 1995, the international toy store chain earned $15.8 million, or 8 cents a share. [D4.]
 
Big Blue vs. Kasparov II
It may not be rematch of the century, but I.B.M.'s chess playing computer will try again to beat the world chess champion. [B1.]
 
Takeover Defense Is Challenged
A money manager is challenging Wallace Computer Services' takeover defense. [D18.]
 
Battle for B. B. King's Name
After 50 years of singing the blues, B. B. King is so successful that people are fighting over the use of his name on blues clubs. [D4.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,699.44, up 9.99
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.79%, up 0.03
The Dollar -- 107.81 yen, up 0.11
 
Graph: "TODAY"
 
U.S. Balance of Trade
 June figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -$9.4 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: SUI (JSE) (91%); MET (NYSE) (55%); RRD (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (67%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (52%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (52%); NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (50%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (50%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (50%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KERZNER INTERNATIONAL LTD (92%); SUN INTERNATIONAL LTD (91%); NEW ENGLAND MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (67%); METLIFE INC (55%); TOYS 'R' US INC (52%); R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (50%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (56%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (56%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MERGERS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (86%); BUDGETS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CASINOS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); MOBILE HOMES (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); BONDS (69%); BOARD GAMES (66%); TOYS & GAMES (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); JAZZ & BLUES (60%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (56%); 

PERSON: MERVYN EDWARD 'MERV' GRIFFIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



468 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Ochs Honored by City With Street of His Own

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY 

 BODY:
The occupation of 43d Street off Times Square by The New York Times is a nightly affair as oversize delivery trucks groan and grind their way into narrow bays at the newspaper's loading dock to carry away bundles of the next day's issue.
Yesterday, on the 100th anniversary of the first issue of The Times published under the ownership of Adolph S. Ochs, the newspaper took over the street again, but in a much more genteel fashion. There was a box-lunch picnic for 2,000 employees, a Dixieland jazz band and a ceremony in which Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani renamed the block Adolph S. Ochs Street. 
 "Mr. Ochs used the words 'entirely fearless' to describe the manner in which he wanted his newspaper published," the Mayor said, recalling the risk and innovation that marked Mr. Ochs's career. "These are the words that he lived by, and this is the legacy that he's left to this great newspaper."
Mr. Giuliani said that like the Yankees, the Stock Exchange and other institutions bearing the New York name, The Times helps to define the city and enhance its reputation around the world. He said that since Times Square was named 92 years ago for The Times, it has become one of New York City's most recognizable places and that re-naming the street symbolizes "the very, very strong, inextricable connection between" the newspaper and the city.
The ceremony and picnic were the latest events marking the 100 years that the newspaper has been controlled by Mr. Ochs and his descendants, the Sulzberger family. There have been dinners, breakfasts and receptions, and exhibitions at the Museum of Modern Art, the Pierpont Morgan Library, the New York Public Library and the American Museum of Natural History.
Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the newspaper's publisher, welcomed the company's employees to the "urban picnic" commemorating "that young entrepreneur whose vision changed the face of journalism."
He said Mr. Ochs "taught us the lesson we live by, that great journalism is great business; that a newspaper must be economically viable, but that it must also be more than that, for a newspaper -- certainly this newspaper -- is a public trust."
Yesterday, it was a picnic.
Sitting at round outdoor tables sheltered from the sun by white umbrellas, the paper's employees dined leisurely in the middle of 43d Street, as the Muskrat Dixieland band pleasantly muted the usual cacophony from Times Square.
Bernadette Lin, a 26-year employee in the corporate controller's office, came downtown on her day off to join her co-workers at the picnic and even pose for a few pictures. "It's a centennial," she said. "It's not going to come around for another 100 years."
Nina Robinson, who works in corporate communications and was snapping pictures of Ms. Lin and her co-workers, said, "We're not going to be around for the next one."
John Nardone, wearing reflector sunglasses and sipping a bottle of natural spring water, marveled at how the midtown street had been transformed into a relatively serene setting, complete with an arch of blue and white balloons. He and other employees, who now work at the company's printing plant in Edison, N.J., said they had strong memories of watching the varied street life on 43d Street, which they said became more varied in the early morning hours.
"Who would think we'd be having lunch out in front of The Times," Mr. Nardone said.
Mr. Nardone and his co-workers said they felt a hint of nostalgia about the paper emerging from the heart of the city each night, even with all the traffic tie-ups and blaring horns. The company is constructing a new printing plant in College Point, Queens, which is to open next year, replacing the presses in the 43d Street building.
"It's an era that's ending," said Bob Brown, a packaging supervisor.
But yesterday, the life of the paper and the life of the city swirled together. A couple visiting from Italy strolled by and snapped some pictures. Orlando Godoy, a bank employee wandering around on his lunch hour, said the music caught his attention and "I stayed for the whole show." And Sharon Cullen, who works at a nearby single-room-occupancy residential hotel, said she was standing just outside the police barricades hoping a spare box lunch would come her way. Just then, a piece of a cake depicting a front page of The Times was handed her.
As things happen in the city, a man with a saxophone happened to be walking by as the picnic was in full swing. He listened for a while, then took his instrument out of his case and sat in with the four-piece band for a round of "Basin Street Blues." He took his applause, packed up his sax and wandered off.
"This is New York," said Bob Leive, the band's cornet player. "Isn't this lovely?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: West 43d Street from Broadway to Eighth Avenue was renamed Adolph S. Ochs Street yesterday at a ceremony marking the century since Mr. Ochs took over The New York Times. As Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani applauded, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., publisher of The Times, handed Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the Times Company chairman, a box of stationery with the new address. (Paula Giannini/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE AND OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES NEW YORK TIMES CO (92%); NEW YORK TIMES ELECTRONIC MEDIA CO (85%); NEW YORK TIMES CORP (85%); NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (85%); NEW YORK TIMES BROADCASTING SERVICE INC (85%); NEW YORK TIMES SALES INC (85%); NEW YORK TIMES DISTRIBUTION CORP (85%); NEW YORK TIMES SYNDICATION SALES CORP (85%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STREETS; NEWSPAPERS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; PICNICS NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (86%); PUBLISHING (77%); HISTORY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (71%); JAZZ & BLUES (70%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (70%); LIBRARIES (68%); 

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); OCHS, ADOLPH S RUDY GIULIANI (90%); ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



469 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: A Jazz Club, A Lingerie Shop And the Gap Vie For Harlem Aid

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
For Melba Wilson, a Harlem restaurateur, it means a chance to resurrect Minton's Playhouse jazz club, where be-bop was born. For John Bolt, manager of the Dyckman Street Marina, it could mean 105 new boat slips at the northern tip of Manhattan.
And for the Gap, the clothing store chain based in San Francisco, it opens a tantalizing new market. "We think Harlem is retailing's best-kept secret," said Beverly Butler, a Gap spokeswoman. 
 Such are the attitudes of three of the early contenders for funds from one of New York City's largest and most eagerly awaited economic development programs in decades, the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, in which more than $250 million is to be distributed to businesses and not-for-profit social service organizations over the next 10 years.
The first applications for the program, which was nearly killed in a bitter stand-off between economic advisers to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki, were due on Friday. Applications can be submitted each quarter. Officials said yesterday that they had counted 188 applications, requesting a total of $185 million of the city, state and Federal funds.
"We are flooded," said Deborah C. Wright, the former City Housing Commissioner who was hired a year ago to be the zone's director. Among the applications were proposals for a broad spectrum of new businesses and service organizations, ranging from a small lingerie store that wants $20,000 in government loans to Harlem U.S.A., a huge retail complex for 125th Street that would include outlets of the Gap and the Disney Store. It wants $11.2 million.
According to several officials involved in the zone, other large applications are expected soon from such companies as Greyhound Lines Inc., which hopes to operate an employee training center in Harlem, and the Sony Corporation, which with a company owned by Magic Johnson wants to build a movie house with 20 or more screens.
"We've got entrepreneurs competing with each other, and it's the most exciting thing I've ever seen," said Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Harlem Democrat who sponsored legislation in 1994 that led to the creation of empowerment zones in six cities, including New York.
Despite the enthusiasm of the entrepreneurs and business owners, the birth of the empowerment zone has not occurred without complications. The loans and grants that the businesses are seeking have already been delayed for more than a year because of the squabble between the aides to the Mayor and the Governor, both Republicans who had inherited the program from their Democratic predecessors.
In addition, tensions have persisted among factions of Harlem's civic leaders, some of whom chafe at the idea of outside business interests -- particularly those not owned by blacks -- moving into Harlem.
"There is a weird combination of arrogance, distrust and fear of gentrification," Ms. Wright said. "People have got to get beyond that attitude, because it has hurt everything uptown."
The program is also being created after a legacy of failed efforts to bring economic renewal to Harlem. One of the neighborhood's most celebrated economic development proposals, the Harlem International Trade Center, was abandoned in 1994 after nearly a decade of futile efforts to attract private investment, despite the promise of large government grants.
And few merchants who are considering investments in Harlem can forget the 1995 firebombing of Freddy's, a clothing store on 125th Street owned by a Jewish retailer who wanted to expand his business into space leased by a black-owned record store. The incident underscored the deep mistrust by some Harlem residents of outside investment.
But even without the empowerment zone, experts say the tide of business investment in Harlem is about to turn. Some suggest that the political battles and the delays they have produced may even have enhanced the zone's prospects, because it is starting at a time when many retailers have begun to recognize the commercial potential of Harlem.
"The timing is fortuitous" said Mitchell Moss, director of the Urban Research Center at New York University. He said interest in Harlem had been heightened, particularly among retailers, because of the sharp decline in crime and recent investments by some chain stores and other big retailers -- like Blockbuster Video and Fairway Market -- that had been conspicuously absent from the neighborhood.
In another widely expected boost for retailing in the neighborhood, a not-for-profit development group said yesterday that it had completed a financing agreement, including a $1.5 million loan from New York State, to build a new Pathmark supermarket on 125th Street between Lexington and Third Avenues.
"To tell you the truth, we'd be looking at Harlem even without the empowerment zone," said Keith Emerson, vice president of Ecomat Inc., a four-year-old chain of cleaners based on West 72d Street in Manhattan that applied on Friday for $300,000 in loans or grants from the empowerment zone funds.
Ecomat, which uses a European cleaning process that it says is less damaging to the environment than dry cleaning, said it wanted to open a training center and a cleaning outlet, and chose Harlem because of its large number of workers.
Despite the many applications that were submitted before the Friday deadline, Ms. Wright said most would be summarily rejected because they did not provide enough information about their business plans or simply proposed ideas that were unacceptable.
Although Ms. Wright said applicants would be subjected to stringent review, the zone has been set up to allow broad discretion in the types of businesses and service organizations it can assist. It can also dispense Government money in the form of low-interest loans, outright grants or more complicated financing plans involving the sale of stocks.
A quick review of the submissions that was made over the weekend suggested that only about 20 percent would receive serious consideration, she said.
Those that are considered must first be approved by the Upper Manhattan Zone's 23-member board, including business executives, members of the clergy and civic leaders. Then, recommendations of that board must be approved by a larger New York City Empowerment Zone board, including representatives of the Mayor, the Governor and the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Renewal.
The larger New York City board will also preside over a separate empowerment zone in sections of the South Bronx. That zone, created by the same Federal, city and state agreement responsible for the upper Manhattan zone, has not yet sought its first applications.
Although most of the applications received by the deadline were for businesses or social service organizations in Harlem, others extended to the northern border of the zone in Inwood.
"People up here have just as much right to good quality food, clothing stores and recreation as anyone in Manhattan," said Mr. Bolt, one of six partners who in 1990 opened the Dyckman Street Marina on decrepit city-owned waterfront property with a 20-year lease from the Department of Parks and Recreation.
He said his group hopes the empowerment zone will approve $2 million in loans or grants to expand a small snack bar at the marina, and increase the number of its boat slips to 127 from 22.
Although the empowerment zone clearly has an economic motive, at least one of the proposals would help revive a bit of the neighborhood's history. Ms. Wilson, the restaurateur, and two partners -- the actor Robert De Niro and Drew Nieporent, who operates the TriBeCa Grill and several other restaurants -- have been working for more than two years to attract other private investors to restore and reopen Minton's Playhouse, at 118th Street and Seventh Avenue, a treasured jazz institution where Charlie Parker and others created be-bop and other jazz forms in the 1940's and 1950's. It closed in 1974.
"Harlem has always been rich in culture, and to bring some of it back would be a dream come true," said Ms. Wilson, whose group applied for $300,000 from the zone to help renovate the Minton's building.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Melba Wilson, right, and Drew Nieporent are planning to reopen Minton's Playhouse jazz club in Harlem. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. B5)
 
Map shows areas of Empowerment zones. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: SON (LSE) (81%); SNE (NYSE) (81%); 6758 (TSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (81%); NAICS485210 INTERURBAN & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (65%); NAICS485119 OTHER URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (65%); SIC4131 INTERCITY & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION (65%); SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (81%); GREYHOUND LINES INC (65%); HARLEM INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARLEM INTERNATIONAL TRADE CENTER (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENTERPRISE ZONES; UPPER MANHATTAN EMPOWERMENT ZONE LINGERIE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (74%); GOVERNORS (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (69%); TRENDS (63%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) RUDY GIULIANI (71%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



470 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
Many Drawn to Harlem Program
One of New York City's largest and most eagerly awaited economic development programs in decades, the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, has received a torrent of applications from entrepreneurs, officials said. Under the program, more than $250 million in city, state and Federal funds are to be distributed to businesses and nonprofit social service organizations over the next 10 years. The program was nearly killed in a bitter standoff between economic advisers to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki. Officials overseeing the program said they had received 188 applications, requesting a total of $185 million in government aid. [Page B1.]
 
Round Two: Man vs. Machine
Rivalries demand rematches, and here comes another one: Garry Kasparov-Deep Blue, the world chess champion vs. the world's most accomplished chess computer. Mr. Kasparov and International Business Machines, the creators of Deep Blue, have announced a second six-game match May 3 to 10 at the Millennium Hotel. The $1.1 million prize fund will be put up by I.B.M., perhaps a measure of the company's confidence, with $700,000 earmarked for the winner. In February, Mr. Kasparov beat Deep Blue, 4-2, in a landmark six-game series. [B1.]
 
A Renewed Call for Justice
Five years to the day after a Hasidic Jew was fatally stabbed during racial violence in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, the streets are no doubt quieter. But the killing continues to reverberate through the city, and yesterday -- the anniversary of the attack -- some of New York's top political leaders returned to the scene of the killing, saying that justice still had not been achieved. [B1.]
 
A New Name on the Block
On the 100th anniversary of the first issue of The New York Times published under the ownership of Adolph S. Ochs, the newspaper took over the street with a box-lunch picnic for 2,000 employees, a four-piece Dixieland jazz band and a ceremony in which Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani renamed the block Adolph S. Ochs Street. The street-naming ceremony and picnic were the latest events marking the 100 years that the paper has been controlled by Mr. Ochs and his descendants, the Sulzberger family. [B3.]
 
Federal prosecutors widened their drug case against the Manhattan nightclub owner Peter Gatien, adding cocaine distribution charges to an earlier indictment, and arresting two of his top aides, including the general manager of his largest club, the Tunnel. [B3.]
 
A Pennsylvania teen-ager was still missing after she failed to return to her father at the 27th Woodstock anniversary celebration in Bethel, N.Y., last week, the New York State police said. And officials reported two deaths in connection with a concert in Plattsburgh. [B2.]
 
REGION
 
Jet's Center Section Sought
They have the cockpit. They have the baggage containers. They have all four engines, most of the right wing and thousands of fragments. What they don't have is the answer. And so the men and women investigating the downing of T.W.A. Flight 800 are intensifying their efforts to recover and examine the remains of the jumbo jet's center section. Somewhere in that section of the plane, investigators believe, is the epicenter of the explosion that broke the Boeing 747 into two pieces. The hope is that when the metal is finally pulled from the water and reassembled in a hangar, it will tell a story. [B4.]
 
Putting motorists' fingerprints on driver's licenses, as is done in California, would help in identifying disaster victims, the Suffolk County Medical Examiner told a County Legislature committee. [B4.]
 
Judge Assails Shelter Crowding
A State Supreme Court justice castigated city officials for what she called continued overcrowding and dangerous conditions at a bunkerlike housing intake center in the South Bronx, where homeless families with children come seeking shelter but often end up spending days sleeping on floors and chairs. Unless the city can prove by Thursday that it has improved conditions at the office by making more emergency housing available for homeless families, Justice Helen E. Freedman said that it must re-open a similar housing office in Manhattan to relieve the press of people. [B1.]
 
Grumpy Judge Faces Censure
A town justice who grumbled about having to get out of bed for an arraignment and used obscenities to describe the county sheriff should be censured, a state panel said. The recommendation from the panel, the State Commission on Judicial Conduct, against Justice James McKevitt of Malta town court in Saratoga County now goes to the state's top court, the Court of Appeals. Judge McKevitt has 30 days to challenge the recommendation, which amounts to a public slap on the wrist. [B4.]
 
A man who pleaded guilty to robbing the mother of the accused Genovese crime boss Vincent Gigante was in a Manhattan courtroom to be sentenced to one and a half to three years. [B5.]
 
CONNECTICUT
 
Theme Park Is Planned
Just weeks after a Six Flags amusement park was proposed for southeastern Connecticut, another theme park company has announced plans to build a multimillion-dollar complex in the area. Fun-Plex America, a private company with offices in New Canaan, Conn., and New York City, and First H&M Corporation, a holding company, have reached a preliminary agreement to build the park, which would be housed in giant domes. [B4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (56%); IBM (NYSE) (56%); IBM (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HOMICIDE (76%); BOARD GAMES (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (70%); INDICTMENTS (70%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (70%); COMPUTER GAMES (68%); RELIGION (65%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); JAZZ & BLUES (61%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (61%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); COCAINE (60%); RACE & RACISM (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



471 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2111 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE VOTERS;
POLL SHOWS DOLE SLICING AWAY LEAD CLINTON HAD HELD

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 19

 BODY:
After a week in the limelight at the Republican National Convention, Bob Dole has sliced President Clinton's lead in half, and more than twice as many people have a clear view of what he would do as President, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows.
But the survey, conducted after the convention ended, found that many are skeptical about his signature tax-cut proposal and remain sharply split in their opinion of Mr. Dole himself. 
 More broadly, the poll showed that after several politically turbulent days that included the rolling out of Mr. Dole's plan for a 15 percent tax cut, the selection of Jack Kemp as his running mate, the upbeat convention in San Diego and Ross Perot's nomination as the Reform Party's candidate, Mr. Clinton still stands solidly ahead of his opponents.
The survey of 1,138 adults nationwide, interviewed Friday through Sunday, found that 50 percent of registered voters surveyed said they would support Mr. Clinton and Vice President Al Gore if the election were held today, while 39 percent favored Mr. Dole and Mr. Kemp -- a gap of 11 points.
That represents a gain of five points for Mr. Dole and a loss of six points for Mr. Clinton compared with a Times/CBS News poll taken shortly before the convention. Both polls had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
It is common for candidates to leave their conventions with a significant "bounce" in the polls. But often such bursts of support are short lived. Four years ago, President George Bush enjoyed a momentary bump in the wake of his party's convention, but he fell behind several days later and never recovered.
Over the weekend, Mr. Dole's advisers touted a poll by Newsweek that showed the race was a virtual tie. But that survey included interviews on Thursday night, the peak of the convention, and may have reflected excitement from the convention that has since ebbed.
In fact, there were indications that Mr. Dole's bounce had already begun to shrink. On Friday night, the first day the Times/CBS poll was conducted, preliminary findings suggested that the race was a virtual tie. But by Saturday and Sunday, Mr. Clinton had bounced back into a commanding position. The President will have an even better opportunity to mold public opinion to his advantage because of the sustained coverage he will draw at the Democratic National Convention that opens on Monday in Chicago.
It was unclear from the findings how television coverage of the Republican convention affected the standings of Mr. Dole and Mr. Clinton. Those who tuned in were disproportionately Republicans who were already predisposed to Mr. Dole -- and more likely to vote for him than Republicans who did not tune in. Among Republicans, 72 percent said they had watched some of the convention; as did 58 percent of Democrats, and 61 percent of independents.
But Mr. Dole did better among self-described independents who watched the convention than those who did not. Independents who watched were divided in their opinion of Mr. Dole, while those who did not were four times more likely to have an unfavorable opinion of Mr. Dole.
Among all voters, Mr. Dole is hardly a beloved politician. While he lowered his unfavorability ratings, his image is now split between favorable and unfavorable.
Fifty-four percent of respondents said Mr. Dole had made it clear what he wants to accomplish as President -- a jump of 30 points since the last Times/CBS poll. Yet of that group, only half said they planned to vote for Mr. Dole; 4 out of 10 are Clinton voters.
With Mr. Perot formally in the race, the survey found that he would take support about evenly from those who would otherwise support Mr. Dole and those who would favor Mr. Clinton. But at least for now, before his multimillion-dollar advertising campaign begins, Mr. Perot is nowhere near the 18.9 percent he won in his independent bid four years ago. Forty-nine percent of the respondents said that if the election were held today, they would back Mr. Clinton; 37 percent said Mr. Dole and 8 percent said Mr. Perot.
And as Mr. Perot has begun to re-emerge into public view, people hold an increasingly unfavorably view of him. His unfavorable rating stands at 59 percent, up from 48 percent in the poll taken just before the Republican convention.
After a week of prime-time attacks against him in San Diego, Mr. Clinton emerged largely, but not completely, unscathed. Fifty-one percent approve of the way Mr. Clinton is handling his job as President, just at the crucial 50 percent threshold that his advisers do not like him to sink below. That is down from 58 percent in the last poll, two weeks ago. Twenty-eight percent said Mr. Clinton has kept "hardly any" of his campaign promises from 1992; a five-point increase from the last poll. And while Mr. Clinton's rating on handling the economy was down 5 points, his rating on foreign policy -- which was not a central focus of attacks at the Republican convention -- was unchanged.
Each camp, of course, gave its own interpretation to the poll.
"Clearly, the trend is powerfully in the direction of Bob Dole, Jack Kemp and taxpayers who want a 15 percent tax cut," said Nelson Warfield, Mr. Dole's press secretary. "We have plenty to be happy about today -- and the Clinton campaign has plenty to be worried about."
Asked about Mr. Warfield's comment, George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's senior adviser, broke out laughing. "The only people who should be worried by Senator Dole's bounce are those who depend on Medicare and Medicaid, because Dole's plan would decimate them." He dismissed Mr. Dole's gains as "the standard cotton-candy bounce."
To a significant extent, Mr. Dole is staking his candidacy on support for his proposal to cut taxes by 15 percent and balance the budget. At first blush, the notion of tax cuts is very popular, with 61 percent favoring the concept.
Dick Whitney, 63, a Dole supporter from Toledo, Ohio, who took part in the poll, said in a follow-up interview that he has become more excited about Mr. Dole. "I feel more strongly about him now because he was adrift," said Mr. Whitney, a retired manufacturer's representative. "He had no clear-cut direction. I like his ideas on the tax cut and balancing the budget."
But respondents leaning toward Mr. Clinton did not seem swayed by the tax plan. "Decreasing taxes by 15 percent is unrealistic," said Elise Roth, 27, a marketing-firm coordinator in Atlanta. "It would probably cut needed programs and increase the deficit. You have to pay taxes. That's reality."
Indeed, the danger for Mr. Dole is that the more they hear about the plan and its possible consequences, the less voters seem to like it. Only 22 percent said they would support the cut if it would mean increasing the Federal budget deficit.
And perhaps reflecting less on Mr. Dole than on voters' mistrust of politicians, only 38 percent said Mr. Dole actually would cut taxes if elected; 51 percent said he would not.
Even as Mr. Dole and leading Republicans have strenuously argued in the last two weeks that it is possible to balance the budget and cut taxes, a 53-percent majority said that it was not possible to do both. That reflects an increase of 9 points since the last poll.
Still, there may be room for Mr. Dole to sell his tax-cut plan. Asked whether Mr. Dole had explained enough specifics of the plan so that respondents understood what it meant for them and their families, 63 percent said no.
Mr. Dole's choice of Mr. Kemp, a former Congressman and Housing Secretary, was relatively well received, but it did not seem to make a significant difference in the Republican ticket's standing. Nineteen percent said that the choice of Mr. Kemp made them more likely to vote for Mr. Dole; but half of those people are Republicans, many of whom would probably back the ticket anyway.
Over all, 30 percent expressed a favorable opinion of Mr. Kemp, while 15 percent held an unfavorable view and 55 percent had no opinion of him at all.
James Hilty, 59, a retired botany professor from Knoxville, said he had positive feelings toward Mr. Kemp, but not enough to sway him from backing Mr. Clinton.
"I like him," Mr. Hilty said in a follow-up interview. "He's a straightforward, no-nonsense guy. I can't see him with Dole though. They're like two step-children, they don't fit together. But I don't know who would fit with Dole. He has honorable intentions, but I think he's too old for the job." He said he watched the convention but that he found it "easy to switch off" because it was "canned and corny."
But Mr. Whitney spoke highly of Mr. Kemp. "Choosing Kemp has influenced me -- he's not a weasel," he said. "He's got some definite ideas about how the Government should run and what course of action to take on taxes and the budget."
Still, the public is sharply divided over Mr. Dole. The 29 percent of voters who held a favorable opinion of Mr. Dole, a Kansan who retired from the Senate in June, were countered by 32 percent who expressed an unfavorable view.
Other Republican figures enjoyed a rise in popularity from the convention. Elizabeth Hanford Dole, who captured attention when she abandoned the rostrum and praised her husband's accomplishments from the floor of the hall, had a 10-point increase in her favorability ratings, to 39 points, since the last survey. Gen. Colin L. Powell's already impressive rating rose to 61 points, from 55 points. And after Nancy Reagan's tribute to her husband, former President Ronald Reagan's retrospective job approval rating rose to 64 points from 58 points.
The broad image of the Republican Party improved after a convention in which party leaders sought to convey the party as friendly and inclusive. In heartening news for Republican Congressional candidates, who were concerned that Mr. Dole's popularity could drag them down in November, the poll found voters split when asked which candidate they would support in House races. Only two weeks ago, the Democrats held a seven-point advantage.
The Republican Party also made modest improvements in its popularity. Fifty-two percent of voters expressed a favorable opinion of the Republican Party, up from 46 percent two weeks ago. But the Republicans were not entirely successful in turning around the party's image. While 65 percent said the Democratic Party welcomes people with different views on issues, only 45 percent said that of the Republicans.
And though the gap has narrowed somewhat in the last two weeks, public expectations of who will eventually win the White House still favor Mr. Clinton over Mr. Dole, 62 percent to 26 percent.
Even Republican supporters of Mr. Dole who were questioned in this survey acknowledged that he needs to work on his delivery. "Unfortunately he's not a performer like some of these other guys are," said Violet Savocchia, 73, a retired nurse from Elmwood Park, Ill. "He's a stoic individual, and he has had some trouble getting his message across. His word is his bond. I think he will try to cut taxes. And, believe me, 15 percent means a lot to me."
 
How the Poll Was Taken
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Friday through Sunday with 1,138 adults throughout the United States. Of these, 856 said they were registered to vote.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 36,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, race, sex, age, and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. For example, it is plus or minus five percentage points for either Democrats or Republicans or independents taken as a separate group.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variations in question wording or the order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat different results.


GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Dole Before and After the G.O.P. Convention" shows results of various polls conducted regarding the 1996 Presidential electoion. (pg. A14)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX ; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (76%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KEMP, JACK F BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



472 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: PROSECUTOR GAINS SENTENCING DELAY IN ARKANSAS TRIAL

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY 

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark., Aug. 19

 BODY:
A Federal District judge delayed sentencing for James B. McDougal in the Whitewater case today, suggesting that Mr. McDougal has agreed to cooperate with prosecutors and that they hope he has information that will move the case forward.
Mr. McDougal, President and Mrs. Clinton's partner in the Whitewater real estate deal, had been scheduled for sentencing on fraud and conspiracy charges this afternoon before Judge George Howard Jr. But at midmorning he announced that the sentencing would be delayed until November. Judge Howard immediately imposed a gag order on Mr. McDougal, his lawyers and the prosecutors involved in the case. 
 A second defendant, former Gov. Jim Guy Tucker of Arkansas, was sentenced to probation and community service on related charges.
Neither Mr. McDougal nor his lawyer was at the courthouse today. But a person involved in the case said that Mr. McDougal agreed on Aug. 9 to cooperate with prosecutors and that the judge ordered a 90-day sentencing delay then. That order was sealed until today.
Mr. McDougal was a political ally and a business partner when Mr. Clinton was Governor of Arkansas in the 1980's. When the Whitewater matter became an issue in the 1992 Presidential race, Clinton campaign aides urged the garrulous Mr. McDougal not to talk to reporters.
Still, it is far from clear that he has anything damaging to say about the Clintons or that he would be a credible witness if he did. Before the gag order was imposed, lawyers in the case had speculated that he would be most valuable to prosecutors if he could provide documents to point them toward new investigative trails or bolster leads they were pursuing.
People who spoke on the condition of anonymity said a deal between Mr. McDougal and the prosecutors might involve information he could offer about loans for another land development that figures in the Whitewater case, Castle Grande. Mrs. Clinton, then a lawyer in Little Rock, did some legal work on the Castle Grande development, but the extent and nature of her involvement is a subject of much dispute.
Investigators found the Castle Grande deal to be riddled with fraud, but Mrs. Clinton has never been accused of any wrongdoing.
Citing the gag order, the chief Whitewater prosecutor, Kenneth W. Starr, refused today to talk about Mr. McDougal. He said, "I am not confirming and I am not denying."
Mr. McDougal was convicted on 18 felony counts of conspiracy and fraud relating to Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan, a savings association he owned. It failed in 1989 at a cost to taxpayers of more than $60 million. Some of the charges against him relate to a fraudulent loan that was used in part, prosecutors say, to pay expenses for the Whitewater land development. Mr. McDougal, his wife at the time and the Clintons were partners in that venture.
Fifteen of the counts carry a maximum sentence of five years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000. The remaining three counts carry a maximum sentence of two years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000.
Mr. Tucker's four years of probation includes 18 months under a modified form of house arrest. Under the house arrest, he would be allowed to leave home only for work, church or medical treatment. He was also ordered to give lectures on family, educational and social values at Arkansas high schools and junior high schools to pay a fine of $25,000 and restitution of nearly $300,000, including interest, to the Small Business Administration.
His voice trembling, Mr. Tucker, 53, pleaded for leniency today on the grounds of his health. He is on the waiting list for a liver transplant at the Mayo Clinic. Judge Howard acceded to his request, saying, "A sanction of prison would be as cruel as the grave." Mr. McDougal's former wife, Susan, is to be sentenced on Tuesday on four felony counts in the case. She faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000 on each of three of the counts against her, and two years in prison and a fine of $250,000 on the fourth count.
Prosecutors had pressed for the maximum sentence against Mr. Tucker, in hopes that a harsh sentence would encourage him and his two co-defendants to cooperate. Prosecutors appeared dumbfounded by Judge Howard's lenient sentencing. He had wide discretion in sentencing because the crimes were committed before the enactment of Federal sentencing guidelines.
The 230-acre development is in the Arkansas Ozarks at the juncture of Crooked Creek and the White River. Mr. McDougal dubbed it Whitewater.
There are mixed views on just how valuable Mr. McDougal would be to prosecutors. He has demonstrated that he has intimate knowledge of some of the Clintons' business dealings, including Mrs. Clinton's lucrative trading in commodity futures. In the late 1970's, she parlayed a $1,000 investment into nearly $100,000.
But Mr. McDougal proved dismal on the witness stand, offering occasionally inconsistent testimony.
He was the only one of the three defendants to take the stand and some jurors said after the trial that they would have acquitted him and his two co-defendants on many of the charges had they not heard his testimony.
Mr. McDougal suffered a mental breakdown in the 1980's. And his conviction on 18 felony counts goes to the heart of his credibility. Mr. Tucker, a Democrat who succeeded Mr. Clinton as Governor, has already announced that he would appeal his conviction, based on the fact that one of the jurors was married to a man whose 40-year sentence on a drug conviction Mr. Tucker refused to commute in 1992. Mr. Tucker, who is awaiting a liver transplant, is also facing a second criminal trial on charges that he evaded taxes and committed bankruptcy fraud.
Mr. Tucker, 53, resigned as Governor on July 15, and Lieut. Gov. Mike Huckabee, a Republican, was sworn in to complete the two and a half years remaining in the four-year term.
From the outset, it has been clear that Mr. Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel, has been trying to follow a paper trail that he believes leads to Mr. Clinton. In the last week, speculation has turned to what part Mr. McDougal can play in keeping alive that investigation.
In 1994, prosecutors subpoenaed Mrs. Clinton's law records on Castle Grande, but were told that she had destroyed most of the records of her work in 1988. And she said that summaries of her bills on that and other accounts had vanished from the Rose firm during or after the 1992 Presidential elections.
Nearly two years after the first subpoena was issued for them, the records were turned over to investigators earlier this year. A White House aide said she had found the documents in August 1995 in the book room of the White House, a few paces from Mrs. Clinton's office.
The main prosecution witness in the Whitewater trial was David Hale, who had headed Capital Management Services, the federally backed company that made $300,000 in loans to Mrs. McDougal in 1986. He testified that he issued the $50,000 loan after Mr. Clinton requested it but insisted that his name not appear on any documents linked to the transaction. Mr. Hale also testified that Mr. McDougal had sought that loan and others to take care of the "political family" in Arkansas.
At the time the loan was made, Federal regulations permitted such loans only for economically disadvantaged borrowers, under a Federal program.
Mr. Hale is serving a 28-month prison term for two felony counts.
Mr. Clinton was not charged in the case, but he was compelled to testify as a witness for Mr. McDougal. During his two and a half hours of videotaped testimony, which was played for the nine women and three men on the jury on the last day of the trial, Mr. Clinton adamantly denied Mr. Hale's allegations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Gov. Jim Guy Tucker of Arkansas in Little Rock yesterday after being placed on probation and fined for fraud and conspiracy. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (96%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN; WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CORP

ORGANIZATION: MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN; WHITEWATER DEVELOPMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (96%); ARKANSAS, USA (96%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WHITEWATER CASE; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL); PROBATION AND PAROLE SENTENCING (94%); JUDGES (92%); LAWYERS (90%); PROBATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); FELONIES (78%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); PAROLE (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); WITNESSES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MCDOUGAL, JAMES B; MCDOUGAL, SUSAN; TUCKER, JIM GUY ; HOWARD, GEORGE JR (JUDGE) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



473 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 20, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-10
 
MAPPING CHINA'S FUTURE
For the first time since Deng Xiaoping came to power 18 years ago, the younger generation of Communist Party rulers is mapping out fundamental leadership changes for post-Deng China. A1
 
FEARS ABOUT BALKAN ECONOMY
Western officials fear that the refusal of Balkan governments to loosen their hold on their economies will obstruct development of regional markets and entrepreneurs that could reduce conflict. A1
 
CONTRADICTIONS ON CHECHNYA
News analysis: Russia's President granted his national security adviser the authority to resolve the war in Chechnya, but the Government has been speaking with contradictory voices about the issue. A3
 
ARMING DEVELOPING NATIONS
Russia had the highest arms sales to the developing world last year, said a report that also raised concerns about whether some nations were selling weapons that are considered destabilizing. A3
 
SOLVING PHILIPPINES INSURGENCY
The President of the Philippines met with separatist rebel leaders on Mindinao to try to resolve a 26-year war in a way that would grant Muslim separatists some measure of autonomy. A10
 
U.S. WARNED ON ITS U.N. STANCE
A group of American foreign policy experts of varied views warned that the hostility toward the United Nations by the United States could harm the organization and the American national interest. A6
 
HAITI ATTACK RAISES FEARS
Gunmen opened fire on police headquarters in Haiti's capital, in the latest indication of what the Government there sees as a destabilizing effort by sympathizers with the former dictatorship. A6
 
Kiev Journal: Bitter struggle for church leadership. A4
 
National A12-17
 
POLL FINDS DOLE GAINING
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll showed that Bob Dole has sliced President Clinton's lead in half. A1
 
MEETING DOLE'S GOALS
News analysis: If Bob Dole wants to keep his tax-cutting promise, he will have to make far deeper reductions in Federal spending than anything contemplated so far by Republican budget cutters. A15
 
KEMP'S HOUSING RECORD
As Housing Secretary, Jack Kemp was not able to translate many of his ideas into solid accomplishments -- although others, after him, have begun to do so. A15
 
President Clinton helped to rebuild churches in Tennessee. A14
 
Ross Perot turned to the business of selecting a running mate. A15
 
The Green Party nominated Ralph Nader as its candidate. A16
 
RIFT OVER WELFARE RULES
In a trend that is dividing judges, politicians and welfare advocates, first-time drug offenders are facing both strict sentencing policies and a new welfare provision that would deny benefits to anyone convicted of a drug felony. A1
 
EX-GOVERNOR SENTENCED
The Whitewater judge delayed sentencing for James B. McDougal, a key figure in the case who agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. Jim Guy Tucker, the former Arkansas Governor, was sentenced to four years probation. A1
 
INTEREST GROUPS STEP TO FRONT
Some analysts say that never before have so many interest groups become so involved in so many House races. A1
 
A SUSPECT'S LIFE
Richard Jewell, the man being investigated for the Atlanta bombing, has spent the last three weeks as a virtual prisoner in his home. A12
 
TWO CONVICTIONS FOR HUSBAND
A retired Army sergeant from Texas already convicted for killing one wife 18 years ago was found guilty of killing another. A12
 
SUICIDE CASE QUESTIONED
A medical examiner said there was no indication that a woman Dr. Jack Kevorkian helped to die had a medical disease. A13
 
Metro Section B1-5
 
Business Digest D1
 
Science Times C1-10
 
The ultimate in compact cars: a Japanese match head model. C1
 
San Francisco Bay teems with alien flora and fauna. C1
 
New theories on what drove the Anasazi into exile. C1
 
Embattled T.W.A. pathologist heeds victims, not critics. C3
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
A French rock icon's "American dream." C13
 
Disney on Broadway. C13
 
Music: Vindicating Ives. C13
 
Critic's Choice C13
 
Books: "The Inner Elvis," by Peter Whitmer. C16
 
Television: The Joan Collins court case. C18
 
Sports B8-13
 
Baseball: Yankees defeat Mariners, 10-4. B9
 
Football: Giants cut Maddox. B9
 
Fashion Page B7
 
Store labels gain designer cachet.
 
Obituaries B6
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A18-19
 
Editorials
 
The spoiler returns.
 
Final push for the test-ban treaty.
 
Karl E. Meyer: William Morris.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Surely he is spoofing.
 
A. M. Rosenthal: President Dole's duty.
 
Alan S. Blinder: The Republican riverboat gamble.
 
Larry Johnson: Terrorists among us.
 
Chronicle A17
 
Chess C9
 
Crossword C16

CORRECTION-DATE: August 21, 1996, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the News Summary yesterday about the Whitewater case in Little Rock referred incorrectly in some copies to the sentence given to former Gov. Jim Guy Tucker of Arkansas. He received four years' probation, not a four-year prison term.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); HAITI (92%); UKRAINE (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (53%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (92%); HAITI (92%); UKRAINE (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); SENTENCING (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POLICE FORCES (72%); RELIGION (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); PROBATION (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (63%); LITIGATION (63%); JUDGES (63%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (62%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (62%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (62%); FELONIES (60%); SHOOTINGS (50%); 

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1996



474 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: The Cassoulet Lacked One Ingredient

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL 

 BODY:
IT was the moment everyone dreams of. Lying on a beach in Martinique, George and Helen Studley, who had owned La Colombe d'Or, a New York fixture near Gramercy Park since 1976, turned to each other and laughed.
"You know that Belmondo movie when he robs a bank and escapes to the tropics?" Mr. Studley asks now, recalling the start of their fantasy retirement. "That was it. We had sold the restaurant. It was great." 
 That was in March 1994, when their memories of frozen pipes in the winters and no-show customers on the weekends were fading fast. They visited France: Paris, Avignon, Montpellier and Toulouse. They went, as Mrs. Studley says, "cassoulet hunting" for weeks on end.
They checked out Florida -- Key West and Vero Beach -- and even considered settling in Sarasota. At least, Mr. Studley considered it. Mrs. Studley was not so sure. "It really scared me there," she says. "Everyone looked the same. They all wore pink." The couple traveled to Scandinavia; she went to Greece and he sailed his boat off Shelter Island. They reveled in Oaxaca, Mexico, surrounded by mountains, where dinner for two was never more than $12.
But by March of this year, all roads to Shangri-La led back to 134 East 26th Street. The Studleys have retired from retirement, resuming ownership of La Colombe d'Or. Their choice was one part business, two parts emotion: when the business declined after their departure, they could have just as easily turned the restaurant over to new owners and continued -- blissfully -- on their wanderings. After all, they had waited a lifetime for the freedom to pursue, as Mr. Studley says, "Helen's idea that there's some kind of paradise."
But maybe, they figured, they had inadvertently left it behind. After all those weeks of tasting cassoulets, Mrs. Studley says, "we thought the ones we had produced here were the best."
Sitting in the restaurant's bar on a drab, rainy afternoon, they say they're convinced they made the right choice. Mr. Studley, 65, tall and stately with a trim white mustache, says: "I guess it was a challenge too sweet to turn down. One more time!" Mrs. Studley, who is slight and tightly wound, refuses to give her age, though she acknowledges collecting Social Security payments. She looks at her husband. "I think maybe you should also say you can only sail so much," she offers.
What happened, exactly? In 1994, the Studleys sold the restaurant to Wayne Nish, the celebrated chef at March who had got his start at La Colombe d'Or in 1988, and Joseph Scalice, a former Colombe d'Or general manager. The sale was, as Mr. Studley calls it, "an easy deal," with monthly payments rather than one down payment.
But recently, he says, as the restaurant started to falter, the payments came later and later. "There was no owner presence here," he says. "They had March and they had Team B handling this restaurant, with nobody at the door to welcome people. Whatever success we've had is that people like to see us here, a ma and pa restaurant scene."
Mr. Nish, responding in a telephone interview, says the reasons for the drop in business were more complicated, citing first the large number of companies in the area that moved or folded with the downturn in the economy, directly affecting the restaurant's lunch traffic.
"Also," he says, "between the time I left in 1990 to open March and came back to Colombe d'Or in 1994, there had been a huge proliferation of competition from the new restaurants on Park Avenue South. There must have been 22 new, larger places, all with models at the door.
"The concept we had agreed to maintain at Colombe d'Or, which was part of our deal, became dated in the face of that competition."
But isn't there still a place in New York for a restaurant that cooks classic dishes in a homey setting with no models at the door? Clark Wolf, a New York-based food and restaurant consultant who is not affiliated with Colombe d'Or, says yes. "The groovy thing doesn't always work," he notes. "Cutting edge can be critically successful and not a business. There will always be room for French style mom and pops. This town has loved them forever."
Mr. Studley says, "When you reopen a book on a restaurant you have a million options. I think we have to make some changes, but it really boils down to doing something that we know. It's in our blood, so to say."
The newly reopened Colombe d'Or has borrowed a concept from the hot Gramercy Tavern, serving prix fixe dinners in its dining room ($45 for four courses, $29 for three courses) and a lighter menu at the bar. Then there is a private dining room that seats up to 28. Already, Mr. Studley categorizes its business as "brisk."
"We know what we want to do," he says. "We need to give it time to prove itself one way or the other."
Unfortunately, no one told Corby Kummer, a restaurant reviewer for New York magazine, who visited La Colombe D'or twice in its first week of reopening on July 8. His review was negative, calling the food "surprisingly spotty" and the service "rude." But the Studleys were not thrown.
"He was right on 90 percent of the food," Mr. Studley concedes. "You have to work out the kinks -- you change it. The menu has changed since then. He was right about the maitre d' being rude, too. By the time the piece ran, he had been let go two weeks."
In addition to a new maitre d'hotel, Mrs. Studley is at the door five nights a week. Alexandra Studley, the couple's grown daughter, substitutes for her one night a week; by day she is a special events planner for Ark Restaurants. ("She started here as a hatcheck girl because we didn't have a baby sitter for her," Mrs. Studley says.) The Studleys' son, Jonathan, is a chef in Alaska.
The couple celebrated their 40th wedding anniversary in May; they first met in night school at City College. But they arrived in Manhattan by very different routes.
Mr. Studley was born to a Jewish family in Belgium. During World War II, he fled with his parents and older brother, Julien, now a real estate executive, "in an old Buick, with mattresses on the roof to guard against machine gun bullets, and we ended up in Nice for two years.
"We couldn't get American visas," he recalls, "so we bought Cuban visas and spent another two years in Havana, waiting." When the family moved to Manhattan in December 1943, Mr. Studley enrolled at the High School of Music and Art. After graduating he took courses at City College and became a travel agent. He saw his future wife again, by chance, in front of the New York Public Library in 1954. "This time it clicked," he says.
Mrs. Studley's journey to the library was a more painful one. She was born near Hamburg, Germany, also to a Jewish family. Her mother died when she was 6; her two older sisters left before the war. She stayed behind with her father, and a Christian family in Berlin hid them for two years.
"The first year, we never left the room, ever," she says. But as the bombing intensified and the building became too damaged to hide anyone, she pretended to go to school each morning, even joining a church choir. "I wanted to be a musician," she says, in a voice both small and tough. "They taught me to play the organ. But I got caught. Somebody recognized me. It was 1944, when theoretically there were no more Jews around." She was transported to Auschwitz. Her father had no idea where she was, whether she was alive or dead.
"But the good part," Mrs. Studley says, "is that it was only a year. There was no way to survive more. I found my father after the war, from a posting on a bulletin board." Shifting in her seat, she tries turning the conversation back to something manageable and almost succeeds. "Sometimes, when I say to the waiter, 'Give me water without the ice,' I can't believe I'm saying that," she says. Her smile covers the bottom of her face, completely missing her bright eyes, suddenly sunken and black.
After the war, she and her father came to New York to join her married sisters. "I hadn't gone to school from the age of 12," she says, "and I was determined to go. I also had to work, and I didn't speak English." She got a part-time office job in the mornings, studied piano in the afternoons and went to school in the evenings. After attending City College, she graduated from Hunter College, married Mr. Studley in 1956, had her children and wrote about music on a freelance basis. "But I really didn't like the idea of staying home," she says. "The minute I got my citizenship, I went back to Europe and traveled. Then I went into the travel business. I still had my agency when we opened the restaurant in 1976."
Mr. Studley smiles gently. "Our careers are such a reaction to the war," he notes. "We couldn't eat and we couldn't travel."
Mr. Studley gave up his own travel career shortly after his marriage and joined his brother's real estate firm. After the couple took a year's sabbatical in Provence in the early 1970's, they decided to give their own restaurant a try. "We knew what we didn't like about New York restaurants and could do differently," he says. "We wanted to do it from the consumer's point of view, starting a restaurant from table height."
They both look up as a young Evian deliveryman saunters into the bar, his long hair falling across his eyes. When his receipt has been signed, he turns to go. "Au revoir," he declares in an atrocious accent. The Studleys wave, amused.
"We're really doing what we want to do now," she says. "It's so delicious." He adds, "As complicated as it is to get a restaurant going, once it is you can take days off."
She nods. "We'll travel again for sure," she says, though she is also busy writing her memoirs, having recently published "Life of a Restaurant: Tales and Recipes from La Colombe d'Or" (Crown).
"When we sold the restaurant, I thought I'd literally fall off a cliff," she says. "It was so much a part of me. Then, I had a rather good time. We went to concerts together. If the weather was horrible, we could stay home. Things normal people do.
"But when George said we had the restaurant back, there was no question we wouldn't do it together. I guess I was intrigued by it, too. I never felt I was sacrificing something." She glances sideways at her husband. "Which I would have felt if we had moved to Florida."

GRAPHIC: Photos: For George and Helen Studley, the trip back to La Colombe d'Or included stops in Paris and Oaxaca. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. C1); George and Helen Studley, in corner at rear, preside over dinner with their staff. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); The Studleys with their children, Alexandra and Jonathan, on the liner France in 1963, before La Colombe d'Or opened. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 0069 (HKSE) (55%); 

COUNTRY: MARTINIQUE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (88%); MEXICO (75%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (57%); 

COMPANY: LA COLOMBE D'OR (NYC RESTAURANT) SHANGRI-LA ASIA LTD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LA COLOMBE D'OR (NYC RESTAURANT)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTINIQUE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (88%); MEXICO (75%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); BEACHES (78%); CELEBRITIES (72%); DRINKING PLACES (61%); 

PERSON: WITCHEL, ALEX; STUDLEY, GEORGE; STUDLEY, HELEN HELEN STUDLEY (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



475 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Reaches 4-Week High Against Yen on Rate Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar hit a four-week high against the yen yesterday after a Bank of Japan report suggested that interest rates would stay low and a top Japanese official said that a weaker yen would not hurt the country's economy.
The dollar ended slightly higher against the mark and little changed against other currencies, steadied by a Bundesbank report that showed German money supply growth in July fell to an 8.6 percent rate from 9.6 percent in June. 
 That report bolstered the view that the German central bank might move to reduce interest rates at its council meeting tomorrow to stimulate the economy without fear of aggravating inflation. Lower interest rates in Germany would diminish the demand for marks.
There was little reaction in the currency market after the Federal Reserve, as expected, left interest rates unchanged yesterday.
In late trading in New York, the dollar stood at 108.35 yen, up from 107.81 yen on Monday. The dollar traded at 1.4885 marks, up from 1.4872 marks. The British pound edged up to $1.5475 from $1.5450.
The dollar started strengthening against the yen overnight after the Japanese Finance Ministry's top currency policy maker, Eisuke Sakakibara, was quoted in the Nihon Keizai Shimbun, the country's leading financial newspaper, as saying that the Japanese economy would not suffer if the dollar were worth 110 yen or more. Mr. Sakakibara is known for his ability to influence exchange rates.
"There was yen-selling across the board today after that," said Thomas Arnold, a trader at the New York branch of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd.
The yen was also weakened by a Bank of Japan annual review of the economy for the fiscal year ended March 31, which said the pace of recovery from a prolonged slump was likely to remain modest compared with past recoveries.
The report dampened expectations that Japanese interest rates would rise before the end of the year.
"A lot of people who have expected the Bank of Japan to raise rates down the road now think they won't raise rates until next year," said Jeffrey Yu, a senior dealer at the New York branch of Sanwa Bank.
Others said the yen weakened on the narrowing Japanese trade surplus with the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DAI-ICHI KANGYO BANK LTD (66%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); NEW YORK (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (77%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MONEY SUPPLY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BRITISH POUND (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); 

PERSON: EISUKE SAKAKIBARA (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



476 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Who Lost Turkey?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN; Frank Rich is on vacation.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Not "Who lost Russia?" Not "Who lost Bosnia?" Not "Who lost China?" Not "Who lost Saudi Arabia?" No, the most heated foreign policy debate this election might turn out to be: "Who lost Turkey?"
Turkey's new Islamist Prime Minister, Necmettin Erbakan, signed a $23 billion deal with Iran last week calling for construction of a natural-gas pipeline between the two countries and a long-term contract for Iran to keep that pipeline flowing with gas. Such a deal with Iran by a NATO ally, coming just after President Clinton signed a bill sanctioning any country making new energy investments in Iran, amounts to a direct challenge to the Clinton policy of containing Teheran. And Mr. Erbakan's call for a Turkey-Iran-Iraq-Syria summit meeting to deal with the Kurdish problem challenges the Clinton policy of containing Iraq as well. Suddenly Turkey's Government, a longtime pillar of U.S. policy at the crossroads of Asia and Europe, is becoming, under Mr. Erbakan, an unreliable ally at best and a threat to U.S. interests at worst. 
 "Erbakan's visit to Iran had a sort of finger-in-the-U.S.-eye aspect to it," says Richard N. Perle, a former Pentagon official and Dole foreign policy adviser. "But it was a result of the fact that the pro-U.S. faction inside Turkey has been shamed into silence, because of the indifference with which the Clinton Administration has treated Turkey. The Congress has not been helpful either, but previous Administrations fought for Turkey's interests in Congress in a way this Administration has not. I don't see Dole giving a major foreign policy speech without mentioning how Turkey has been mishandled."
But the looming "Who lost Turkey?" debate is more complicated than just Clinton Administration indifference. At least part of the blame for Turkey's drift away from Washington has to be placed at the doorstep of the Bush Administration for the way it ended the gulf war -- with Saddam Hussein left in power. With Saddam alive and well in Baghdad, the U.S. was forced to set up a no-fly zone over northern Iraq, to protect Iraq's Kurdish minority from further abuse by the Iraqi dictator. The only way the U.S. could enforce that protection was by flying fighter planes out of Turkey's nearby Incirlik air base. This became known as "Operation Provide Comfort." It was supposed to be temporary but has lasted five years, because Saddam is still in power. The Turks hate Provide Comfort. It costs them money, because they can't trade with Iraq, and it has left a power vacuum in northern Iraq in which Turkey's Kurdish opponents can operate.
One reason the Clinton team initially took a tolerant line toward Mr. Erbakan was that, like the Bush team, it was obsessed with winning Turkey's support for another six-month extension of Provide Comfort. Mr. Erbakan seems to have misread this friendly initial overture from the Clinton Administration and thought that if he just renewed Provide Comfort, he could get away with everything else. So he extended Provide Comfort and then followed it up with his overtures to Iran and Iraq.
Also, no one has played a bigger role in losing Turkey than Turkey's own greedy, cynical, myopic political elite. Mr. Erbakan won only 21 percent of the vote. The only reason he is in power is that Turkey's secular politicians, representing the other 79 percent, wouldn't work together.
Finally, the Clinton Administration did not lose Turkey. It never found it. Secretary of State Warren Christopher has spent virtually no time in Turkey in four years. Turkey was taken for granted.
If Mr. Erbakan continues with his present policies, either the global economy, to which Turkey is intimately linked, or the Turkish Army could depose him. Standard & Poor's, the global credit-rating agency, is already threatening to downgrade Turkey's credit rating, which would boost inflation and interest rates even further; the I.M.F. just canceled a visit to Turkey; and the Turkish Army just forced Mr. Erbakan to move ahead on a military cooperation deal with Israel. If the Turkish Army does step in, though, or if the Turkish lira goes into a tailspin, things are going to get very messy.
And if that happens, there is only one thing you can be sure of: No matter who is at fault, the U.S. will be blamed. So pull up a chair, get yourself a scorecard and choose up sides. The "Who lost Turkey?" debate may be just around the corner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); TURKEY (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN (57%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (57%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TURKEY; IRAN; UNITED STATES (96%); TURKEY (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN (57%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GAS (FUEL); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PIPELINES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN POLICY (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (77%); NATURAL GAS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); REFINED PETROLEUM PIPELINES (71%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (71%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (71%); DESERT STORM (68%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; ERBAKAN, NECMETTIN (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



477 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 1619 words

HEADLINE: AT DINNER WITH: Kweisi Mfume;
Not How You Start, But How You Finish

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT 

 BODY:
KWEISI MFUME was running late for a dinner meeting.
Rushing off to appointments, to airports, to hotels and to new challenges has been standard for Mr. Mfume, the president since February of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, America's oldest civil-rights organization, which is trying to regain its pre-eminence. 
 But running late is a rarity in the repertory of polish, poise and exactitude of Mr. Mfume, the former representative from Maryland.
Yet, the dinner bread at Cafe Centro, a stylish bistro in midtown Manhattan, was getting cold.
Both elegant and eloquent, Kweisi Mfume (pronounced kwah-EE-see oom-FOO-may) is, by all accounts, appearances and accomplishments, an intensely serious man. His compact frame, his boxer's carriage, the lionlike set of his jaw suggest no nonsense. The name, which he adopted as a young man in Baltimore, means "conquering son of kings" in a Ghanaian language.
Mr. Mfume, the former globe-trotting chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, counts among his friends political figures ranging from Nelson Mandela to Jack Kemp.
(He holds no grudge against Bob Dole, who spurned his invitation to speak at the N.A.A.C.P.'s national convention in July. "I've been around the block too many times for that," he said.)
He threw his considerable influence behind Lani Guinier's nomination for Attorney General, even after President Clinton withdrew her name.
And despite the reluctance of many well-known African-Americans to participate in Louis Farrakhan's Million Man March last October, Mr. Mfume attended with three of his five grown sons. He gave a speech that day on the Mall.
"Everyone said: 'It was Louis Farrakhan's march. How could you go?' " Mr. Mfume recalled this week. "I said: 'If he's got a million legs, then it is his march. If he doesn't, I'm going.' "
His voice was low and tired when he arrived for dinner. For most of the previous eight hours, Mr. Mfume had been ensconced in a cramped studio on East 43d Street, recording an audio version of "No Free Ride: From the Mean Streets to the Mainstream" (One World/Ballantine Books). The demands of recording the book in a single day delayed his dinner plans more than an hour.
With the publication of "No Free Ride," his first book, much of his week was a rush of breakfast meetings, television and radio interviews and book signings. Mr. Mfume, a former radio disk jockey, Baltimore City Councilman and five-term Democratic Congressman, found himself facing another challenge in promoting and explaining his 373-page memoir, which was written with Ron Stodgill 2d, a journalist on the staff of Business Week.
The book offers an intimate look into Mr. Mfume's journey through poverty, pathology and, finally, power. It is especially frank in portraying someone who can seem at times ill at ease talking about his past.
The book tells of Frizzell Gray, as Mr. Mfume began life on Oct. 24, 1948, born in Turners Corner, Md., a black community literally on the other side of the railroad tracks from white Baltimore. There was an abusive stepfather, Clifton Gray, a hulking man who for years drifted, like thunder, in and out of Frizzell's life. Shortly after one brutal confrontation, in which Frizzell, then 11, attempted to protect his mother from the man, whom he long believed to be his father, Clifton Gray disappeared.
The family of five (Mr. Mfume has three younger sisters) soon moved to West Baltimore. And Frizzell, a small boy known as Pee Wee, drew even closer to his mother, Mary Gray, whom he describes as a spiritual and hard-working woman who raised him well.
But by his mid-teens, his mother told him that she was dying of cancer. When he was 16, she died in his arms, and his life plunged into despair, confusion and anger.
A short time later, he and his sisters were split up, sent to relatives to live. He had little choice but to live with two bachelor uncles who, he writes in the book, could hardly take care of themselves.
The next thing he knew, Mr. Mfume said, he was a fixture on the mean streets of West Baltimore: hanging out, drinking wine, smoking marijuana, shooting craps, carrying a pistol and running in a gang. He dropped out of the 10th grade and developed a coveted street reputation for "being crazy."
By the time he was 22, this man, who at 14 lost his virginity to two prostitutes he befriended on the way to school, had fathered five children out of wedlock by four women.
But his transformation is the soul of his story, Mr. Mfume says. It is the reason he carved 18 months out of his workaholic life to write it.
"The book is about obstacles, and obstacles are part of every generation," he said, as he settled behind a tiered serving tray of broiled lobster, shrimp, scallops and oysters on the half shell. "This book is about triumph. My hope is that young people will read it and recognize one very basic and simple lesson that goes throughout the writing of the book, and that is that it is not how you start in life that counts, but rather it's how you finish."
Today, he lives alone in a house just outside Baltimore. Mr. Mfume says he is especially close to his sons, Donald, Kevin, Keith, Michael and Ronald. But he is chiefly driven, he says, by a keen appreciation of the woes of America's poor and most troubled, coupled with an understanding that his time on earth will never be long enough for him to help all of those he believes he must help. So he routinely pushes a schedule as heavy as Sisyphus's rock.
"Life is a very short commodity," Mr. Mfume said. "I had people come and go in my life, whose lives were claimed in one way or the other."
As a result, he said, "that gave me the sense of the fragility of life." He continued: "I love and appreciate the past because it keeps me rooted in who I am today. But most of my energy is devoted to the future and what I can do to have an impact on that future, to change, to shape it."
One of the things Mr. Mfume says he most wants to change and shape is the gut belief by many young Americans -- black, white and Latino -- that the future is bleak because the larger society does not offer them much hope and opportunity. To that larger society he said: "You can't create within a subculture a people that you have written off and expect that you will never encounter them. Why condemn yourself to the fate of potentially having to be the victims of their anger when you can try to do something about it?"
One of the key goals for the N.A.A.C.P. is to attract young people, Mr. Mfume says, especially those between 18 and 24. The association, he says, will emphasize educational excellence, economic opportunity and values for the young, to whom he wants to give hope.
He remembers the time when he had little of it, when he was a regular in Baltimore at the rundown intersection of Laurens and Division Streets, which his buddies called Hankin's Corner for the seedy liquor store that dominated the lives of the young men who stood around it.
"I had sunk about far as you could go," Mr. Mfume said. Then on a summer evening in 1972, one that he said started no differently from many others, he was gripped in an explosion of epiphany.
Without explanation, then or now, he said he went into some "kind of trance that said to me that death was very, very near." He said he sensed his mother's presence and the hard-work values that she and a handful of male mentors had instilled in him as a boy.
He knew, he said, that "if I did not change from that point on, I would never have a chance to do it again."
He left the gang, earning the scorn of its members and months of beatings. He worked several jobs -- including operating a machine that sliced bread in a commercial bakery -- to pay for tutoring that helped him get a high school equivalency diploma. After starting in a Baltimore community college, he transferred to Morgan State University, a black school, where he developed a militant student voice. In 1976, Mr. Mfume graduated magna cum laude with a bachelor's degree in urban planning.
Next, he tackled Johns Hopkins University, where he received a master's degree in liberal arts with a focus on international studies.
Along the way he worked as a disk jockey for WEBB-AM, a Baltimore station owned by the entertainer James Brown, who often did not appreciate the young Mr. Mfume's giving his political views on the air.
In 1979 Mr. Mfume, a popular figure in black Baltimore, ran for the City Council, winning by a mere 3 of the almost 12,000 votes cast. Then to Congress in 1986.
His transformation doesn't surprise him. "You can't run too far from your root," he said. "You always find it gnawing at you and pulling at you until you do what you ought to do in terms of living out the true meaning of your creed."
Supporters say that he was chosen for the N.A.A.C.P. for his history as a leader and strategist. He inherited the organization's $3.2 million debt, which he said is already down to $800,000, and he expects it to be eliminated by the fall. Asked at a book signing on the Upper West Side on Monday night how he felt about leaving Congress for the N.A.A.C.P., he said, "I feel more optimistic and hopeful and energized about what I can do outside of it.
"My mother always taught me that when God closes one door he opens another, so as I walk through this, with all the uncertainty that it brings with it, I know things will, in the end, work out just right."
Diamond Jim Sears, a mentor from his radio days, says he is amazed at Mr. Mfume's success. "We had no idea he was going to be where he is," he said. "When I see him speaking, I think of it as nothing less than a miracle. Have mercy."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kweisi Mfume's book tells of his painful childhood. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) (pg. C1); Kweisi Mfume has clear goals as head of the N.A.A.C.P. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) (pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GHANA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); BUSINESS WEEK (50%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GHANA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); MEN (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); CAUCUSES (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); WRITERS (64%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); 

PERSON: MARRIOTT, MICHEL; MFUME, KWEISI; MFUME, KWEISI (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



478 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: U.S. May Halt Sale of Jets To Indonesia

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration, which has agreed to sell Indonesia at least nine F-16 fighter jets, is now debating whether to delay or cancel the sale as a response to a serious crackdown on political dissent.
Human rights officials in the Government and some prominent members of Congress think the sale should not go forward while President Suharto of Indonesia and his Government are raiding the headquarters of legal opposition parties, trying to replace the leadership of another party and arresting as many as 250 political activists, human-rights workers and labororganizers. 
 "It would be an unhelpful signal when Indonesia is engaged in a fairly major crackdown, which we believe to be widening, to send them fighter planes, and it will be sensitive on the Hill," a senior Administration official said.
The Administration will have to make its decision by about Labor Day if it hopes sell the planes this year, because Congress adjourns in October for the elections. Congress traditionally gets a 30-day notice of major arms sales.
A few days ago, Senator Patrick Leahy, a Vermont Democrat, wrote to Secretary of State Warren Christopher opposing the sale now because of violations of human and political rights. Administration officials concede that Congressional opposition will grow when legislators return to Washington from the current recess, and though the sale could be pushed through, it would require a considerable expense of political capital.
Other officials, including some at the National Security Council, want to go ahead with the sale, estimated to be worth $200 million. They say they fear that to delay the sale would be to kill it, that Indonesia is likely to buy more of the planes later and that F-16's are not the sort of weapons used to repress dissent.
Maintaining good relations with energy-rich Indonesia is one reason to go ahead with the sale, but the planes' role in relations with Pakistan may be even more important, in large part because of President Clinton's promise to Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto last year to solve an embarrassing quandary.
The nine planes had orginally been part of a package of weaponry promised to Pakistan, which bought and paid for more than $1 billion worth of military equipment -- including $650 million for a total of 28 F-16's. But the transaction was put on hold in 1990, when Senator Larry Pressler of South Dakota put through an amendment that bars direct economic aid and sales of military equipment so long as the White House cannot certify that Pakistan does not possess nuclear weapons.
Mrs. Bhutto demanded that Washington either deliver the equipment or refund the money. Last April, President Clinton decided to deliver some equipment and repay some of the money. But Congress insisted that the F-16's could not be delivered, and the Administration has been trying to sell them to another country, and then give Pakistan the proceeds.
The Administration finally succeeded in finding a buyer in Indonesia, whose Southeast Asian neighbors, including Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore, all have F-16's or equivalent planes. Indonesia, which has eight F-16's, wants the nine more with modernized avionics and some spare engines, parts and technical support, according to the U.S. Naval Institute Military Database. Indonesian officials say they are considering buying even more of the planes.
The sale was essentially finalized last month during the meetings of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Jakarta, which Mr. Christopher attended, though there have been some final negotiations about price, American officials say.
The United States has formally criticized the Indonesian crackdown and urged Jakarta to allow access to arrested individuals by independent human rights monitors and to account for those people who have been reported missing and presumed arrested. The Indonesian Government maneuvered last month to oust Megawati Sukarnoputri, daughter of the country's first President, Sukarno, as head of a political party, which sparked rioting on July 27.
The police have since questioned her, and have arrested Budiman Sudjatmiko, 27, the leader of a small radical workers' party, for subversion, a capital crime. On Friday, Mr. Suharto linked the new unrest to the revival of Communism, evoking memories of a blood bath in 1965, when at least 500,000 people were killed and the powerful Indonesian Communist Party was crushed.
Opposition leaders say the unrest expresses dissatisfaction with poverty, corruption, nepotism and lack of political freedom, and that Mr. Suharto is nervous about succession. Elections are expected in mid-1997.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICAL PRISONERS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); US LABOR DAY (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); 

PERSON: LEAHY, PATRICK J (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (90%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



479 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 3; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Tuition Prepayment Gains Favor as College Costs Skyrocket

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Their 1-year-old granddaughter was in diapers when Marilyn McKinney and her husband paid $7,000 under Michigan's pioneering prepaid college tuition program.
The state-run program let the couple pay tuition and fees for their daughter's entire college education at 1980's prices. The amount -- which was discounted depending on a child's age -- was their hedge against inflation and the rising cost of tuition. In the past school year, tuition and fees at a Michigan public state college would have cost an average of $3,789. 
 "She's 9 now. We've had it eight years," said Mrs. McKinney, assistant admissions director at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.
Prepaid tuition plans, an option for nearly 10 years, are continuing to grow in popularity among parents and grandparents seeking relief from skyrocketing college costs. In 1995, only seven states -- Alabama, Alaska, Florida, Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wyoming -- offered the service. Now two more, Texas and Massachusetts, do, too. In addition, because of recent action by Congress and the Internal Revenue Service, a dozen other states are considering joining them.
At the same time, individual colleges and universities like the University of Virginia and Michigan State University are offering parents guarantees that tuition will not rise faster than inflation. Still other institutions, like the State University of New York, offer three-year accelerated degree programs so students can finish college early and save money.
States began to set up prepaid tuition programs in the 1980's as a result of parents' anxiety about tuition, said David Longanecker, assistant secretary for postsecondary education in the Education Department.
According to the College Board, tuition has risen 6 percent to 8 percent over the last three years at four-year public colleges.
"I'm glad we have the plans," Mr. Longanecker said. "I'm sorry we need them."
Although it is difficult to determine how many people are taking advantage of these plans, one expert last summer estimated that more than 400,000 American families were already enrolled in such plans. Florida has one of the largest programs in the nation with more than 300,000 participants this year.
Among the key components of the plans:
*In some state-run programs, parents can prepay tuition in a lump sum, or in installments. Some cover just tuition and fees while others include room and board. Prepayment, however, does not guarantee admission.
*If a child does not go to college, the money often can be transferred to a sibling, or refunded.
*Some state programs require that students attend public colleges and universities within the state. In others, students can use the tuition money at any public or private school in the nation.
*Prepayments made to the programs are invested, and the money is used to cover future tuition hikes. So far, the plans have been able to earn enough investment income to cover rises in inflation and tuition and fees on American campuses, said Bill Montjoy, executive director of Florida's prepaid tuition program.The states, Mr. Montjoy said, typically charge application fees, but generally do not charge annual administrative fees.
In 1986, Michigan became the first state to pass a law setting up a prepaid tuition program. But the program landed in litigation when the I.R.S. ruled that the investment income could be taxed.
A Federal judge sided with the I.R.S., but the state appealed. An appellate court ruled in 1994 that Michigan's program was not required to pay Federal income tax.
Other states, however, continued to worry. Their misgivings were fueled by I.R.S. discussion of rules that would have forced participating parents to pay taxes on their investment income. The I.R.S. recently decided to exempt them.
And in Congress, Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, pushed legislation to allow state prepaid programs to qualify for tax-exempt status. The provision was in the minimum-wage law that Congress passed this month.
In most states, students have to pay state taxes on the interest when they begin to use the money for college. Students, however, typically are in lower tax brackets than their parents, so the family still saves on taxes.
Of course, a lot can happen between the years of tricycles and the time of caps and gowns that can alter the potential usefulness of such investments.
James Connelly 3d and his wife, who live in Port Charlotte, Fla., enrolled their 4-year-old son, Jamie, in Florida's program when he was 6 months old.
The Connellys recently learned that their son is severely deaf, and they are no longer certain he will go to college. Even so, for now, they said, they will continue to tuck away $50 a month.

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (72%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (72%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (72%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (72%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; TUITION TUITION FEES (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); GRANDPARENTS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (66%); 

PERSON: MARILYN MCKINNEY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



480 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Blue Chips Up; Broader Stock Indexes Ebb

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks ended higher yesterday as the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged.
But the widely anticipated decision -- already cited as a catalyst for several recent rallies -- left other stock markets mixed in another sluggish summer session. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 21.82, to 5,721.26. It was the third consecutive gain for the blue-chip indicator, which has crept back within striking distance of its record high of 5,778.00, set on May 22.
The Dow was led by heavy-industry components like the chemical maker Du Pont and the Aluminum Company of America, which suffer the most when borrowing becomes more expensive, slowing spending on big purchases like housing and cars.
"The Fed's not going to raise interest rates," said Richard A. Dickson, a technical analyst at Scott & Stringfellow in Richmond, "so the economy can continue to cook along. All the cyclical stocks that got sold off can be bought again."
Broader market measures were lower. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 0.89 point, to 665.69. The Nasdaq composite index fell 6.24, to 1,124.67, its third straightloss. Trading volume was moderate.
A recent stream of tame economic readings had made yesterday's decision by the Federal Reserve a foregone conclusion for many investors, whose recovering confidence had already spurred a quick rebound from the bruising selloff last month. At that time, inflation jitters plagued the markets, making an interest-rate increase by the Fed seem likely.
Yesterday, advancing issues outnumbered decliners by nearly a 7-to-6 margin on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume totaled 334.96 million shares. That was up from Monday's pace, the second slowest all year, but it was the ninth consecutive session in which volume was below 350 million shares.
The Nasdaq market was again the weakest, weighed down by technology shares, which have struggled to rebound as fully as the rest of the market from July's drop. "Investors remain skittish about the more volatile stocks," said Robert Streed, senior investment adviser at Northern Trust in Chicago. "I'm worried about tough earnings comparisons for technology stocks. There might be some disappointments out there."
Among its leading technology issues, Cisco Systems fell 1, to 55, and Intel lost 1 1/4, closing at 79 1/2.
HBO & Company, a maker of medical-industry software, tumbled 5 1/4, to 56 1/2, after Morgan Keegan began coverage of the stock with a rating of "underperform." Cheyenne Software fell 1 1/4, to 19, even after issuing a strong earnings report.
Griffin Gaming and Entertainment jumped 7 1/8, to 19 3/8, on news of its merger with Sun International Hotels. Sun International fell 3 5/8, to 48 1/8.
Tylan General rose 2 7/8, to 13 1/8. The company said it was putting itself up for sale, adding that it had received some inquiries from potential buyers.
First Data fell 3 1/2, to 77 3/8. Morgan Stanley trimmed its 1996 and 1997 earnings estimates for the company.
Tobacco stocks were mostly higher. Philip Morris rose 1 5/8, to 91 1/2, and RJR Nabisco Holdings slipped1/8, to 26 5/8.
In Mexico City, stocks soared to a new record after the Government's announcement of resumed economic growth last quarter. The main market index rose 77.12 points, or 2.32 percent, to close at 3,401.79.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (71%); AA (NYSE) (71%); MCK (NYSE) (62%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (52%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (71%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (71%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (62%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (62%); NAICS423450 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (62%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (50%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (71%); MCKESSON CORP (62%); INTEL CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (52%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (52%); KERZNER INTERNATIONAL LTD (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



481 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Signs a Bill Raising Minimum Wage by 90 Cents

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20

 BODY:
Ending a political battle Democrats had played to their advantage for months, President Clinton signed legislation today raising the minimum wage by 90 cents an hour over the next year, saying the measure would give 10 million workers "a chance to raise stronger families and build better futures."
The increase will raise the minimum wage to $5.15 an hour, from $4.25, in two steps, the first being an increase of 50 cents an hour in paychecks effective Oct. 1, a month before Election Day. 
 Sounding a theme that will be central to his re-election campaign, Mr. Clinton said the increase was part of his Administration's record of improving conditions for working Americans.
"These 10 million Americans will become part of America's economic success story," Mr. Clinton declared at a ceremony on the South Lawn attended by labor leaders, Vice President Gore and a group of children of minimum-wage workers.
For a full-time worker earning the current minimum, the new law, when fully phased in with a 40-cents-an-hour increase on Sept. 1, 1997, will mean an annual raise of $1,800 before taxes, to $10,300.
Mr. Clinton used the occasion to credit his Administration with the creation of 10 million new jobs, a steep reduction in the Federal budget deficit and signs that a long period of wage stagnation is ending. The signing is the first of a series of events this week that he hopes will both burnish his Presidential image and emphasize his campaign message that he is the best protector of the economic interests of average Americans.
Mr. Clinton was also clearly seeking to give himself some political momentum in the days leading up to the Democratic National Convention in Chicago next week. He is scheduled to sign legislation on Wednesday to improve access to health insurance, and he will sign the bill overhauling the welfare system later in the week, probably on Thursday.
Although the minimum-wage increase was largely the work of Democrats in Congress, the legislation also contained many provisions demanded by Republicans to help small businesses. Several Republican legislators were present at the ceremony. Mr. Clinton did not once mention his Republican challenger, Bob Dole, who as Senate majority leader opposed raising the minimum wage.
But he alluded to his campaign's strident criticisms of Mr. Dole's plan to slash taxes as fiscally irresponsible and a threat to Medicare and other politically sensitive programs.
"A minimum-wage increase, portable health care, pension security, welfare-to-work opportunities -- that's a plan that's putting America on the right track," Mr. Clinton said.
"Now we have to press forward," he said, "giving tax cuts for education and child rearing and child care, buying a first home, finishing that job of balancing the budget without violating our obligations to our parents and our children and the disabled and health care, to education and the environment and to our future."
The Dole campaign issued a statement calling the minimum-wage bill a "helpful, but small, step toward addressing the economic anxiety of American workers."
"Remember, a tax cut is a raise, and that is exactly what Bob Dole will give Americans," said Christina Martin, a spokeswoman for the Dole campaign. "Fair tax cuts, a balanced budget and spurred job growth will be the mainstays of a Dole Administration."
The minimum-wage legislation was among the most hotly debated bills of the current Congress, and one that for months seemed doomed by strong opposition from the Republican majority. Many Republicans argued that raising the minimum wage would destroy jobs by making it too expensive for employers, especially small-business owners, to keep on as many workers.
But the wage increase won overwhelming public support in opinion polls, and Republicans largely gave in after it was tied to a measure offsetting some of the costs to small business owners, partly through tax breaks valued at $21 billion over 10 years.
The breaks include more generous provisions for writing off the cost of investments. The measure also simplifies requirements for small-business pension programs. In addition, it contains an unrelated provision establishing a $5,000 tax credit for couples who adopt a child.
Kathy Wilkinson, a lab assistant and student from Wheeling, W.Va., who is a single parent of two daughters and earns the minimum wage, said at today's signing ceremony that the law would have a "phenomenal" effect on her life.
"It's going to be such a relief to be able to pay the gas and the electric all within one month because I've got that little bit extra in my paycheck," Ms. Wilkinson said. "And for my children, both of whom want to be in the school band, I can now afford to put some money away to get them the instruments."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Before President Clinton signed legislation raising the minimum wage during a ceremony at the White House yesterday, he spoke with Kathy Wilkinson, a minimum-wage worker from Wheeling, W.Va. Her daughters, Lisa and Deborah, sat at right. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WHEELING, WV, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); DOLE ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DOLE ADMINISTRATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WHEELING, WV, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WAGES AND SALARIES; MINIMUM WAGE MINIMUM WAGE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CHILDREN (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); FAMILY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); MEDICARE (70%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



482 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
A victory may be near in efforts to end the liability limit for international airline passengers.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell 

 BODY:
VICTORY finally appears in sight after a decades-long battle by United States airlines to raise or eliminate the $75,000 liability limit for passengers killed or injured on international flights to and from this country.
If the Department of Transportation approves, as expected, beginning Nov. 1 plaintiffs will be able to recover the full amount of their provable damages, without any applicable limit, and carriers would be liable up to about $146,000 a passenger, even if they were not negligent. 
 "Both carriers and their passengers will benefit from the new system," said Carol Hallett, the chief executive of the United States Air Transport Association. Led by AMR's American Airlines and Delta Air Lines, the association has long sought to raise the 30-year-old liability limit -- set in 1966 under the auspices of the Warsaw Convention -- or abolish it altogether.
Yet the limit endured, because of what the department recently described as "the major divergence of views of interested parties." Those parties include carriers from poorer nations and airplane manufacturers from developed nations.
But last year the Air Transport Association teamed up with the International Air Transport Association to develop a consensus among the world's major airlines on waiving the limit.
Under current regulations, plaintiffs can collect more than $75,000 only if they can prove that a carrier has been guilty of "willful misconduct," but many airlines have been paying more than $75,000 rather than be branded negligent. In 1992, Japanese airlines agreed to waive all limits, and a dozen other international carriers followed suit last year.
Both air transport associations have filed documents seeking Transportation Department approval. But while the international agreements will require additional approvals before becoming law, the agreement among American carriers requires only the one approval to become effective.
 
The Chain Gang
Hotel chains for business travelers are springing up all over the landscape. HFS's Wingate Inns, which caters to business travelers on a budget, recently opened sites in Sevierville, Tenn., Alpharetta, Ga., and Madison, Wis. Marriott International's economy Fairfield Suites, aimed at both business and leisure travelers, broke ground last week in Eagan, Minn., a suburb of Minneapolis-St. Paul. And the first Club Hotel by Doubletree, midscale properties with 24-hour business centers, opened a hotel with appropriate fanfare last week in Jacksonville, Fla.
 
Frequent-Flier Update
If it is not getting any easier to swap frequent-flier miles for flights to popular destinations, it is easier than ever to earn those miles. American Airlines, the originator of frequent-flier miles, not only awards a mile for every $10 invested in its family of mutual funds, it awards one mile for every dollar of mortgage interest spent financing or refinancing a home. Those who sell their current home, or buy a new one, through the airline's AAdvantage Program for Mortgages can earn 15,000 miles per $100,000, pro-rated, based on the purchase price at the time of purchase or sale.
Those who are are skittish about mixing frequent-flier miles with high finance or real estate can still earn miles the traditional way.
Ladbroke Group's Hilton International is offering 1,000 miles a stay (double the usual award) to frequent fliers of UAL's United Airlines who pay corporate rates or higher at any of 59 participating hotels worldwide, and to American Airlines' frequent fliers at 72 hotels. Twenty-one Hilton International hotels will award 1,000 miles on Delta Air Lines to guests who buy a special three-night package rate that includes breakfast for two. All three offers are good through Aug. 31.
To celebrate its recent frequent-flier partnership with British Airways, Inter-Continental Hotels -- a unit of the Saison Group of Japan -- is offering British Airways Executive Club members double miles, or 1,000 miles a stay, at any of its properties through the end of the year. That airline partnership, incidentally, is Inter-Continental's 25th, which it says is a record. If so, it somehow seems fitting for the hotel chain founded 50 years ago by Pan American World Airways.
 
Hotel Habits
In an age when ordinary folks are eager to tell their most intimate secrets to nationwide television audiences, it is hardly surprising that many travelers have no inhibitions discussing their hotel-room sleeping habits. In a national survey conducted for Manor Care's Sleep Inn, 32 percent of travelers said they brought their own pillows, 9 percent brought a night-light, 7 percent their own blanket and 4 percent a sleep mask. And 79 percent sleep on the same side of a hotel bed as they do in their beds at home; 14 percent leave the bathroom light on all night.
In a recent survey conducted by Fodor's Travel Publications, 59 percent of hotel guests said they checked the bed sheets for cleanliness, and 33 percent of men and 19 percent of women used the mini-bar. Twenty-three percent of travelers say they read the Gideon Bibles, while 4 percent admit to stealing the towels. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (90%); MAR (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (82%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (82%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES AIR TRANSPORT ASSN DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (82%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (58%); INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES AIR TRANSPORT ASSN US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (58%); INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS AIRLINES (94%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); NEGLIGENCE (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); HOTEL CHAINS (86%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); MISCONDUCT (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); AIRCRAFT MFG (67%); LEISURE TRAVEL (67%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



483 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE LANGUAGE;
Metaphor! Hut, Hut ... Go, Team, Go!

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky., Aug. 20

 BODY:
His vocabulary is often cribbed straight from a play book. His frame of reference is frequently bounded by the gridiron, with football serving as a metaphor for everything from race relations to economic policy. An imaginary football forever in his hand, he throws not air kisses but air passes to the crowds.
It may have been more than a quarter of a century since Jack Kemp played professional football, but as he scrambles across the country in the hopes of an electoral touchdown, it sometimes seems as if he never left the field. 
 "It's nice to be introduced as a former quarterback," Mr. Kemp said in his opening remarks to an audience of veterans here today, mentioning the athletic element of his resume before the legislative one.
In other cities, Mr. Kemp, who played for the San Diego Chargers and the Buffalo Bills, has bragged about having two sons who went into professional football, cited football right alongside 18 years in Congress as a prime educational force in his life, and, time and again, invoked football positions to define the role he would play for Mr. Dole.
"Can Kemp play second string?" Mr. Kemp said on Sunday at a rally in a football stadium near Buffalo. "I can do better than that. I'm going to be Bob Dole's blocking back for the next four to eight years."
Caught up in the football fever, Mr. Dole has joined the scrimmage with his own athletic bravado. "Jack was never in a Super Bowl," he told the crowd near Buffalo. "But we're going to be in a Super Bowl on Nov. 5."
Whether it is a tactic or just a tic, the pigskin politics of the Dole-Kemp campaign clearly works to showcase the candidates as unaffected champions of unassuming folk, as rough-and-tumble contrasts to the cerebral elitists that they accuse the Democrats in Washington of being.
But some political analysts wonder how well it's playing.
"It's probably heavier on the male jock talk than strategy would dictate for them," said Paul Begala, a political consultant who was a senior adviser in Bill Clinton's 1992 Presidential campaign. "I hear it, and I like it, but my wife hears it and rolls her eyes. And the key swing voters in this election are more women than men."
Representative J. C. Watts of Oklahoma, whose rousing oratory marked a high point of the Republican National Convention, said that in his 1994 campaign for Congress, he studiously avoided mention of his days as a star quarterback at the University of Oklahoma, then with the Canadian Football League.
"I wanted people to know that I was more than just a guy who went out and bumped heads with other guys on a Saturday afternoon," Mr. Watts said.
Aides and advisers to the Dole-Kemp campaign said that Mr. Kemp's blitz of football references, while unrehearsed, would die off as the campaign proceeded, particularly when Mr. Kemp ventures out on his own and has more time at the podium to discuss issues at length.
But the voters who have attended Mr. Kemp's campaign appearances so far hardly seem concerned. "It's great that he talks about being a quarterback," said Cathy Willinger, who stood in a small crowd at the airport here today so that she could get Mr. Kemp to sign a football.
"It says that he's a team player," said Ms. Willinger, 37.
When Mr. Kemp crouched down to greet Ms. Willinger's 4-year-old daughter, Emma, he said, "I have a grandson about your age -- good-looking, great football player."
Football has been a visual as well as verbal motif. In the stadium outside Buffalo, the stage sat astride the 50-yard line, and former and current Bills players climbed onto it at the climax of the rally.
In a park in Pittsburgh later that day, a football as big as a small house flanked the right side of the platform on which Mr. Dole and Mr. Kemp stood.
The sport has been prominent in this campaign from the moment that Mr. Dole announced his selection of Mr. Kemp as a running mate, saying that he had wanted a person who rated a 10 and got a 15, the number on Mr. Kemp's jersey during his days with the Bills.
With that kickoff, the ball kept right on rolling.
Mr. Kemp managed to fit football into an articulation of economic policy, alluding to the career of his son, Jimmy, a professional quarterback in Canada. "We believe so much in free trade," Mr. Kemp said of himself and his wife, Joanne, "we exported our youngest son."
Mr. Dole framed his proposed tax cut in sports terms. After he and Mr. Kemp take office, he said, "One of the first things we're going to do is send the I.R.S. to the showers."
George Stephanopoulos, a senior adviser to President Clinton, said that he smelled a whiff of strategy in the sweaty verbiage.
"I think they're trying to say youth, vigor," Mr. Stephanopoulos said. "You go with what you've got."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Using his favorite prop, Jack Kemp campaigned with Bob Dole yesterday in Louisville, Ky. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 
Chart of quotes from Jack Kemp: "Quarterbacks are always ready." Jack Kemp, Aug. 9, Orlando, Fla. "Quaterbacks don't get butterflies." Aug. 25, San Diego. "You cannot walk in a huddle of men from different backgrounds and ethnic groups and religions and colors, and not realize that this nation is one team." Aug. 18, Amherst, N.Y. "Bob Dole left something out of my introduction ... He forgot to mention (that after) two broken ankles, the broken knee, the broken hand, the broken finger, the broken shoulders and the 11 concussions, there was nothing left to do but run for Congress." Aug. 18, Amherst, N.Y. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (76%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: BUFFALO BILLS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (76%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BONE FRACTURES (90%); ATHLETES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ELECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RACE & RACISM (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: KEMP, JACK F; DOLE, BOB; BRUNI, FRANK BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



484 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Sprint to Offer Internet Service to Residential Customers

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS 

 BODY:
The Sprint Corporation said yesterday that it would gradually begin offering low-cost Internet service to its residential customers later this year, becoming the third and last of the country's large long-distance telephone companies to expand into what has been a treacherous consumer Internet market.
Executives of the company said the belated and cautious entry into the consumer Internet market was part of a deliberate strategy to avoid the initial Internet missteps of its rivals, the MCI Communications Corporation and the AT&T Corporation. 
 Although widely expected to push scores of smaller local and regional Internet service providers out of the market, the large phone companies have so far won the business of only a few hundred thousand of the millions of residential customers who currently tap into the global computer network.
Jim Dodd, vice president of Internet access services at Sprint's Multimedia Group, said that to make sure its customer support and technical capacities were able to meet demand, no more than 200,000 Sprint customers would be invited to test the new Internet Passport service without charge before it is offered to the general public.
When the system is proven and the Internet Passport service is formally introduced later this year in more than 200 cities, Mr. Dodd said, unlimited access to the Internet would cost $19.95 a month, while more casual users would be able to pay $1.50 an hour with no minimum. The monthly fee matches the rates of AT&T Worldnet, but the $1.50 hourly rate is substantially less expensive than the $2.50 an hour charged by AT&T Worldnet and Internet MCI.
Mr. Dodd said yesterday that he believed that even with lower rates, Sprint's consumer Internet venture would be more profitable than AT&T Worldnet and Internet MCI because Sprint already has an extensive network infrastructure in place. Other Sprint executives have said they expect Sprint to capture quickly as much as 20 percent of the total consumer market for Internet access. Sprint's plans were reported by The Wall Street Journal yesterday.
Sprint's late entrance into the consumer market was seen as surprising by some analysts, because Sprint has long been the primary carrier of Internet data traffic in the United States. Scores of smaller Internet service providers (or I.S.P.'s), as well as larger companies like America Online Inc., buy excess network capacity from Sprint and resell it to their own customers.
Thus, Sprint's entry into the consumer market would seem to put it in direct competition with many of its own customers.
"My observation of the I.S.P. landscape is that they are not afraid," said Gordon Cook, editor and publisher of The Cook Report on the Internet, a monthly publication that focuses on the Internet's technical infrastructure. "The economies of scale at the lower end of the market still favor the I.S.P.'s. I have yet to see that AT&T Worldnet has caused any problems for them, and I wouldn't consider MCI to be a major player at this point. Their service has been a belly flop."
Ullas Naik, a vice president at First Albany Technology Research in Boston, said he was surprised that Sprint took the risky approach of building a customer service and technical system from scratch rather than acquire one of the larger regional Internet service providers.
"Well, better late than never, I suppose," Mr. Naik said. "They say the reason they held off was to see what mistakes the other guys made, but I'm not sure I buy that. For a company looking to enter the consumer Internet market, the safest and fastest course of action is to acquire an established company." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: S (NYSE) (97%); T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (93%); VZ (NYSE) (93%); AOL (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (97%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (62%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SPRINT CORP SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (97%); AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (93%); AOL INC (62%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPRINT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (91%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS RESELLERS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); PUBLISHING (61%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H ANN LIVERMORE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



485 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Lions Plan a New Den In Downtown Detroit

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 20

 BODY:
The Detroit Lions football team announced today that after more than 20 years in the suburbs, it planned to move back into its namesake city.
The plans unveiled today call for the city and the team to build a $245 million domed stadium next to a $240 million open-air baseball stadium that the Detroit Tigers recently said they would build in the inner city. The adjacent stadiums, which would be one of the largest entertainment complexes in the United States, are the latest of several large investments in a city that has recently been showing signs of an economic revival. 
 The domed stadium would hold 65,000 to 75,000 for football. Officials of the Lions said they planned to build it and move in after completing the 2004 season in suburban Pontiac, and earlier if they can break their lease. The new stadium could also be used for concerts and possibly national political conventions, Mayor Dennis Archer said.
Charles R. Schmidt, the Lions' chief operating officer, said the team's owners, a branch of the Ford family, would reconsider the plan in November if several conditions were not met, including the acquisition of land for the stadium. But Mr. Schmidt and local officials expressed strong confidence that the conditions could be met.
The Ford family and local corporate sponsors will pay nearly half the bill for the new stadium, which the Lions are expected to occupy free of rent while receiving revenue from other events like conventions. State, county and local government agencies will pay the other half of the stadium's cost and own it.
Sports industry analysts said that today's deal could signal a new restraint by local governments, after several years when Baltimore, Cleveland, Cincinnati and St. Louis have agreed to pay virtually all the cost of new stadiums.
"It's not as sweetheart a lease as most of the recent football stadiums' have been," said Michael K. Ozanian, the editor of Sportsvalue, a bimonthly newsletter on professional athletic franchises.
Marc S. Ganis, the president of Sportscorp Ltd., a consulting firm in Chicago, said the participation of corporate sponsors in the initial construction of a stadium could be copied elsewhere as a way to reduce the cost to local governments.
Government agencies are also carrying slightly less than half the expense of building the new Tiger stadium, with the team's owners, the Ilitch family, bearing the rest. And in another deal this year, the San Francisco Giants committed itself to build a new baseball stadium entirely with private money.
But sports industry analysts cautioned that these three deals had special details that might not be duplicated elsewhere. The Giants agreed to rely on private money only after the defeat of several referendums that would have used tax money for a new stadium.
The Tigers and Lions are owned by families who are very wealthy even by professional sports standards and who have unusually strong personal ties to the Detroit area. The Ilitch family, which founded Little Caesar Enterprises and its pizza chain. and has since moved into real estate development, owns the Detroit Tigers.
The Detroit Lions are owned by a branch of the Ford family, which still controls a significant portion of the Ford Motor Company, the nation's second largest corporation. William C. Ford Jr., the Lions' vice chairman and a great-grandson of Henry Ford, made clear in an interview this afternoon that family issues played a large role in the decision to bring the team into Detroit without even seeking possibly more generous stadium bids from sports-hungry cities elsewhere.
"My children and my grandchildren are going to live in this area. and without a vital city center, this area is greatly diminished," Mr. Ford said. "Our family has had a long history with this city whether it's the Model T, Ford Hospital, Ford Auditorium or the Renaissance Center," the city's biggest office complex.
The announcement today angered officials in Pontiac, who have been feuding with the Ford family for years over a lease that allows the Lions to keep revenues only from football games at the city's Silverdome. But Mr. Ganis said the Pontiac dome was "economically obsolete" because it did not have enough suites for corporations and because the stadium's roof is held up by air pressure, slowing rock bands and convention organizers in moving equipment in because air locks must be used.
Mr. Ford said his family was completely committed to moving the team into Detroit and was not trying to negotiate a better deal with Pontiac.
The family had moved the Lions from Detroit to the Silverdome in 1975, a move that Mr. Ford described at a press conference this morning as a sign that the family had lost confidence then in the city's future and leadership. Detroit had been badly scarred by race riots in 1967, and its politics became acrimonious when Coleman A. Young became Mayor in 1974 and pursued a confrontational approach to racial and economic issues.
Mr. Young retired in early 1994 and was succeeded by Mr. Archer, a Democrat who has strong support from business leaders. The city's health has since improved, with the General Motors Corporation announcing earlier this summer that it had bought the Renaissance Center and would move its headquarters there from midtown Detroit. The Chrysler Corporation has also recently expanded a Jeep factory here, and a Germany steel company, Thyssen A.G., is building a $100 million steel processing center here.
The Detroit Lions left themselves with three loopholes today that might yet result in their staying in Pontiac.
One condition is that voters approve on Nov. 6 a referendum setting a 1 percent tax on hotels and a 2 percent tax on rental cars to raise $80 million locally for the stadium. Michael Duggan, the deputy executive of Wayne County, which includes Detroit, predicted little difficulty with acceptance of the referendum.,
Another condition is that local corporations agree to contribute $50 million to the project. Mr. Schmidt said that local companies had already informally expressed their willingness to contribute.
Mr. Ford, who is also the chairman of the powerful finance committee on Ford's board, said the Ford Motor Company had not yet been asked for any contribution because of the potential for a conflict of interest involving the family. The company will be asked later to contribute, but Mr. Ford said he would not take part in that process.
The last condition, and potentially the trickiest, lies in persuading local landowners not to raise prices too much before selling their land on the proposed site, which lies to the east of the city's main artery, Woodward Avenue, and just south of Interstate 75. While the county already owns part of the land and will donate it to the stadium project, the rest of the open-air parking lots and mostly deserted buildings in the area are in private hands.
"I am really sick of the way development in this city has been thwarted by a few people trying to get rich quick" on previous deals, Mr. Duggan said. He promised that local government leaders and the city's close-knit business community would put pressure on any holdouts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Drawing of a football stadium, left, in downtown Detroit, plans for which were announced yesterday, and the previously planned baseball stadium. (Associated Press)
 
Map of the Detroit area showing the locations of the current Pontiac stadium and the proposed downtown site. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DETROIT LIONS; DETROIT TIGERS DETROIT TIGERS INC (62%); DETROIT LIONS (96%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT LIONS; DETROIT TIGERS DETROIT LIONS (96%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); DETROIT TIGERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT (MICH); PONTIAC (MICH); UNITED STATES (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (96%); OHIO, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (96%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; STADIUMS; SILVERDOME (PONTIAC, MICH); BASEBALL STADIUMS & ARENAS (95%); SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS BUSINESS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); FAMILY (75%); COUNTIES (74%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); WILD CATS (58%); REFERENDUMS (50%); 

PERSON: FORD, WILLIAM C JR; BRADSHER, KEITH DENNIS ARCHER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



486 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Officials Say Mafia Infiltrated Health-Care Industry

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB 

 BODY:
In what authorities described as evidence that the Mafia had infiltrated the health-care industry, New Jersey officials said yesterday that they had smashed a ring that siphoned money from group health-care programs serving a million patients.
Law-enforcement officials say that mob families have for decades been secret partners or controlled companies in many lawful industries, including food distribution, trucking, garbage removal, garment manufacturing, construction and the entertainment industry. But they said the mob's entry into the nation's rapidly expanding field of group care poses an ominous threat. 
 "We are alleging for the first time the involvement of organized crime in the health-care industry," Peter G. Verniero, the Attorney General of New Jersey, said in an interview. "We hope it's not a national trend, but we cannot dismiss that possibility."
Investigators in Mr. Verniero's office warned that the medical industry was a potential treasure-trove for mobsters who could use sensitive and personal information gleaned from group-care programs to blackmail and exploit patients and health-care providers.
Though he said there was no evidence of such misuse of records in this case, Robert T. Buccino, the deputy chief of the State Organized Crime Bureau, said, "They did have access to medical records, and it could be used for extortion and other criminal purposes."
The assertion from the officials came as 12 men were arrested on state charges that they were linked to a Genovese crime family gang that defrauded medical programs and engaged in the more common mob crimes of illegal gambling, loansharking and labor racketeering.
One defendant, Dr. Angelo A. Caprio, a physician in Jersey City, was accused of submitting fraudulent medical claims for a union official who prosecutors said was a member of the gang.
New Jersey State investigators said that in 1994, the mobsters gained control of Tri-Con Associates, a New Jersey company that arranged and managed group medical, dental and optical programs for employers and unions with networks of health-care providers. The companies and unions normally paid a fixed annual fee for each patient in the program and Tri-Con's fees came from the health-care providers.
Health-care experts said Tri-Con entered a comparatively new but growing practice in which health-care brokers create networks of doctors and hospitals who provide services to employers and unions at reduced rates.
According to investigators, Tri-Con inflated fees that providers paid for its managerial services and threatened some plan administrators to approve the costs. The extra money was passed on to the Mafia. The investigators refused to identify the administrators or the plans.
Mr. Verniero declined to estimate the amount of money siphoned by the mobsters.
"But we think it was substantial because of the number of clients and customers," he said.
"Ultimately, all honest consumers of medical care have to bear the cost of these inflated and unneeded charges placed on health programs."
Investigators said the Genovese gang -- known as a crew -- used Tri-Con in Hasbrouck Heights, N.J., and two hangouts in Hoboken, N.J., the Monroe Buddies Club and the Fifth and Madison Avenue Club, to plan their operations.
A central figure in the gang's health-care infiltration, investigators said, was Stefano Mazzola, a former Passaic, N.J., police officer who served 10 years in prison for armed robbery extortion and racketeering. Shortly after Mr. Mazzola was paroled in 1993, he became the chief economic officer of Tri-Con.
In addition to allegations of skimming profits for the mob, he is accused of surreptitiously allowing Genovese gangsters to get free medical care from some plans.
State officials said they had no information about Tri-Con's ownership or any other official in the company except Mr. Mazzola. Mr. Mazzola, 52, who lives in a $275,000 condominium apartment in Rockaway, N.J., was identified in the charges as an associate and enforcer in the Genovese family who worked for Michael A. Borelli Jr., 59, of Fort Lee, N.J., a soldier in the family who ran a powerful crew based in Hoboken.
In a brochure published last year, "Taking Health Care into the Next Century," a Tri-Con subsidiary, Medical Integrated Systems, said that its client list covered more than one million patients, including public employees in Florida and Oklahoma and 11 unions in New Jersey and New York, mainly on Long Island. Investigators said that some Oklahoma state police officers were covered by plans arranged by Medical Integrated Systems.
Two unions covered by Tri-Con, Local 1298 and Local 66, are affiliated with the Laborers International Union of North America, which is being monitored by the United States Department of Justice because of possible organized-crime ties. New Jersey investigators said there was no evidence of wrongdoing by union officials who were solicited by Tri-Con.
Mr. Verniero said he notified law-enforcement officials yesterday in New York, Florida and Oklahoma about the investigation and the possible implications for their states.
Mr. Verniero said no state regulatory laws covered Tri-Con and its subsidiaries since they were not health-care providers or insurers. The offices of Tri-Con were raided yesterday and its records seized by the state police, but no other employees were accused of wrongdoing.
Tri-Con shared a fourth-floor office on Route 17 and the same telephone number with another company, Medical Imaging Systems Inc. James J. Guida, a lawyer for Medical Imaging, said that it provided radiology services and that it used Tri-Con only for "marketing purposes" and had no other business relationship with it.
Terrence P. Farley, director of New Jersey's Division of Criminal Justice, said that the investigation began two years ago and that a cooperating witness had secretly recorded conversations with several defendants. Other officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the witness was an associate in Mr. Borelli's crew who "flipped" -- volunteered to work undercover -- and the authorities were not aware of Tri-Con when the inquiry into the crew's activities began.
The officials said that in a taped conversation, Mr. Mazzola mentioned that he got up to $100 from providers for each patient he brought into a plan and 28 percent of the fees paid by the employer or union for each participant. Mr. Mazzola and Mr. Borelli were overheard talking about plans to threaten a top official of a Hudson County hospital whom they wanted to join one of their health-care networks.
The officials declined to identify the hospital or the hospital administrator.
Investigators said it was unclear how Mr. Mazzola, who had no background in health care, got involved in the business.
In criminal complaints filed yesterday, prosecutors said that the Genovese crew influenced two unions in Northern New Jersey, Local 560 of the United Brotherhood of Teamsters in Union City and Local 69 of the Hotel, Restaurant and Bartenders Employees in Secaucus. Michael C. Sciarra, of Pompton Plains, N.J., a former Local 560 president, was accused of accepting bribes to obtain memberships in the local.
Dr. Caprio, the Jersey City physician, was identified by prosecutors as a Genovese associate, or someone who works for the family. He was accused of accepting kickbacks from another defendant, John R. Agathos, a local 69 official, in exchange for submitting false medical claims.
The 12 defendants each pleaded not guilty to racketeering and conspiracy charges and were released on bail pending hearings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers entered the Monroe Buddies Club in Hoboken, N.J., after the arrests of suspected Genovese crime family members yesterday. The authorities contend that mob figures used the club to plan operations. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: GENOVESE CRIME FAMILY; TRI-CON ASSOCIATES TRI-CON ASSOCIATES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENOVESE CRIME FAMILY; TRI-CON ASSOCIATES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ORGANIZED CRIME; RACKETEERING AND RACKETEERS; EXTORTION AND BLACKMAIL ; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING ORGANIZED CRIME (94%); HEALTH CARE (93%); EXTORTION (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); APPROVALS (78%); FAMILY (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (76%); TRENDS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); ARRESTS (73%); MEDICAL RECORDS (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); APPAREL MFG (56%); 

PERSON: VERNIERO, PETER G (ATTY GEN); CAPRIO, ANGELO A (DR); MAZZOLA, STEFANO; RAAB, SELWYN STEFANO MAZZOLA (66%); PETER G VERNIERO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



487 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
Dole Attacks Foe on Military And Defends Own Tax Plan

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky., Aug. 20

 BODY:
With Gen. Colin L. Powell at his side, Bob Dole today went before the Veterans of Foreign Wars to assail President Clinton as being weak on defense and to pledge that veterans would not be hurt by his own plan to cut taxes while still balancing the budget by 2002.
Mr. Dole's remarks to an audience of fellow veterans, which he delivered in strong and emotional language, seemed to add another Government program to those he has said are off limits for budget cuts. 
 Mr. Dole has already said he will "not touch" Social Security, Medicare and military spending to obtain the savings to help pay for a $548 billion tax cut he has proposed. Even before Mr. Dole's statements today, the White House and some independent budget analysts had suggested that Mr. Dole had set parameters that would greatly complicate his effort to meet his tax and deficit goals if he is elected President.
A V.F.W. cap from Post 6240 in Kansas was perched on his head and Mr. Dole's voice quavered with emotion as he gazed over an audience that included many men who, like him, had fought in World War II and who, like him, had been injured in battle. Mr. Powell's surprise appearance with the candidate added drama and emotion to the moment, particularly as he introduced Mr. Dole to the veterans.
Mr. Dole spoke clearly and passionately, comfortable with an audience that included many friends who knew him from past conventions, as he assured them they had nothing to worry about if he became President.
"Do you think for one minute -- and a lot of you here are in the same category -- that someone who spent three years of his life in an Army hospital, someone who owes his education to the G.I. Bill, would stand by and allow the budget to be balanced on the back of America's veterans?" Mr. Dole asked. "No way. No way will that happen when Bob Dole is President of the United States."
Mr. Dole's aides seemed taken aback by the candidate's remarks, and there was confusion among his senior aides at first over whether an exemption for veterans programs was included in his original tax cutting plan. It was not.
Later, a spokesman said Mr. Dole had not intended to suggest to his audience here that veterans' programs would be spared budget cuts, but only that the cuts would not fall disproportionately on them. "Vets will be treated with the utmost fairness, so that even if these programs aren't completely off the table, they're certainly on the edge of the table," said Mr. Dole's spokesman, Nelson Warfield.
It was a distinction that Mr. Dole did not make for his audience.
"All my life I've remembered veterans," Mr. Dole said, recalling his lifelong membership in the organization. He went on to suggest that veterans' programs would, in fact, be dramatically improved if he is elected. "My goal is a veterans' health-care delivery system that reflects 21st century health care advances, not the old stuff, but the new stuff."
And Mr. Dole bristled at the recent charges by President Clinton that the Republican's economic plan would, his assurances to the contrary, force cuts in programs that are popular with middle-class voters.
"There are those who believe we can't do it -- that we can't cut taxes, that we can't balance the budget," Mr. Dole said. "They also want you to believe -- and this is the point I want to make -- that our plan will mean drastic cuts in programs like Medicare and Social Security and veterans' benefits."
"Well, let me respond to this because I want to offer my official response to this outstanding audience," he continued. He went on to quote Brig. Gen. Anthony McAuliffe, who was commanding the 101st Airborne in Bastogne when the Germans demanded he surrender the important crossroads during the Battle of the Bulge.
"The general said, and I quote, 'Nuts,' " Mr. Dole said. "That was his response, and that is my response."
In the scope of the entire budget, spending on veterans is comparatively quite small: About $18.6 billion this year, mostly covering the costs of 174 veterans hospitals and clinics, which serve about 3 million veterans a year. Another $20 billion goes to veterans' entitlements, including veterans pensions.
But his remarks suggest the difficulty he faces in trying to adhere to his twin economic goals of cutting taxes and balancing the budget, without offending groups of voters.
"Oh, my God -- the noose tightens," said Martha Phillips, executive director of the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan organization which advocates fiscal restraint. "Where is he going to get the money?"
Mr. Dole's aides said today it was highly unlikely that the campaign would provide a detailed list of the $217 billion in spending cuts needed to finance the tax cut, which includes a 15-percent across-the-board cut in personal income tax rates and halving the capital gains tax. "Dole is not submitting an F.Y. '98 plan in a stump speech," his communications director, John Buckley, said, referring to a budget for the fiscal year beginning in Septermber 1998.
Mr. Dole made his remarks on a day intended to contrast once again his military service with President Clinton's avoidance of service during in the war in Vietnam. To do that, Mr. Dole invited Mr. Powell, the Republican whom Mr. Dole had sought energetically, and without success, to recruit as a running mate, to join him on this trip.
The joint appearance by the two men was also noteworthy because it came at a time when Mr. Dole's aides are debating whether Mr. Dole should, in the next few weeks, announce that Mr. Powell would serve as his Secretary of State, as a way of recruiting a particularly energetic campaigner with a moderate appeal. "We haven't had any discussion about it," Mr. Dole said today. Mr. Powell said: "Anything's open. But right now, the more important thing is to get the team elected."
One result of Mr. Powell's appearance was that Jack Kemp, Mr. Dole's running mate, was overshadowed for the first time since the convention. Mr. Kemp obtained a medical exemption from Army doctors in 1961 for a shoulder injury that did not prevent his playing professional football for several more years, and he also appeared on stage today but did not wear a V.F.W. cap.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Colin L. Powell lent his general's luster to the Republican ticket yesterday as he joined Bob Dole on the campaign trail. Mr. Dole spoke at a convention of the Veterans of Foreign Wars in Louisville, Ky. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Delegates to the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in Louisville, Ky., listening to the speech there by Bob Dole, who vowed that his program to cut taxes while balancing the budget posed them no harm. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS MEDICARE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (89%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; VETERANS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); BUDGETS (91%); VETERANS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); MEDICARE (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; POWELL, COLIN L (GEN) (RET); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); NAGOURNEY, ADAM BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



488 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Debating Workfare: Mayor's Effort Raises Questions Over Impact on Poor

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
When a State Supreme Court justice interfered on Monday with the Giuliani administration's plans to put homeless mothers to work for their welfare benefits, the resulting brushfire quickly illuminated some of the issues raised by workfare's swift expansion through New York.
The arguments in the bitter legal quarrel between Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Justice Helen E. Freedman go to the very nature of workfare and the reasons that both local and national officials have been so quick to embrace it. Those reasons will only become more intense as the new Federal welfare bill produces even larger workfare programs in New York City and the nation. 
 For Justice Freedman, workfare disrupts the already disordered lives of homeless people, taking children away from parents who are required to report to jobs at a time they cannot even find shelter. Until the city can find a better place for families to sleep than the tables and floors of a city office, she ruled, it cannot use that office to begin the process of putting mothers to work cleaning the city's streets and parks or performing clerical tasks.
Advocates for the poor, whose position Justice Freedman has thus far championed, go even further, saying the city is deliberately using workfare to deter homeless families from seeking welfare and housing. When the city is under increasing legal pressure to find shelter for more homeless families, they say, it is no coincidence that the city has begun rapidly expanding its workfare program to include the homeless.
"The idea is to make seeking assistance so miserable that families won't seek it anymore," said Steven Banks, the Legal Aid lawyer who successfully persuaded Justice Freedman to issue her ruling. "It's out-and-out deterrence."
The Mayor, however, said yesterday that workfare has a very different purpose, one intended to elevate the lives of those on public assistance and eventually move them back into the economic mainstream.
"Work is an important part, an integral part of moving someone off welfare," he said. "I believe this will help them in a very deep and profound sense. It will help them have some control over their lives. It'll help them stay in the work force. It'll help them maintain work discipline. It'll maintain self-respect. And it's precisely the thing that's been missing from this system for 20 or 30 years, which are concepts that seem to be unknown to Judge Freedman."
The idea that work somehow interferes with families is "astounding" and "perverse," he said, going against the country's basic philosophy and prevailing political winds as embodied in the new welfare bill and the electorate's increasingly skeptical view of public assistance.
Nonetheless, Mr. Giuliani has previously acknowledged that workfare and other changes he has made in welfare procedures, like finger-imaging, have acted as a deterrent, reducing the welfare rolls by 155,000. Last year, shortly after the programs began, he said that welfare in New York City had always been too "user friendly," and that workfare and the new screening procedures would cut down the rolls to those who absolutely required welfare. He even said it could prompt many welfare recipients to move out of New York State.
Pleased with how workfare has reduced the welfare rolls and put 34,000 people to work over the last two years, city administration officials last week tried to portray the sudden expansion of the program to the homeless as a natural extension. But several city employees who were present at internal planning meetings last week said the orders from City Hall were rushed, intended to begin quickly moving those who arrived at the city's Emergency Assistance Unit in the Bronx into the workfare program.
The unit is an office of the city's Department of Homeless Services, where adults and children in dire need of shelter often sleep for days at a time on tables, chairs and the floor. The city has been repeatedly cited for contempt by Justice Freedman for continuing the practice, and faces mounting fines if it does not either find a better way to house the people in the office or find a way to keep them from coming in.
The city is also under pressure to stop sending homeless people to live in hotel rooms without kitchens, where families are sometimes sent after leaving the emergency unit. Under a law that the Mayor signed last year, the City Council can close down the Department of Homeless Services in October if the practice does not end. Currently, there are about 300 families in the hotel rooms at 5 different hotels around the city.
The Mayor's critics suggested that it was these pressures that forced the city to threaten homelesss families with workfare in the hope they would not seek housing.
"They have to come up with a solution quickly, and this is what they used," said Julie Levine, director of social services for the city's Public Advocate, Mark Green. "The idea was to dissuade people from even coming in."
But the Mayor said the intent was nothing of the kind. New York City provides more benefits to the homeless than any other city in the country, Mr. Giuliani asserted last night, and those who partake of those benefits should be asked to work part time in exchange.
"The city has the right and the taxpayers of the city have the right to ask that they do something in return for that, and that is to work part time," the Mayor said. "That's all they're being asked to do."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF HOMELESS SERVICES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF HOMELESS SERVICES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); HOMELESS PERSONS; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF HOMELESSNESS (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (90%); FAMILY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGAL AID (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LAWYERS (75%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; FREEDMAN, HELEN (JUSTICE); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



489 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: CHINA HAS BECOME CHIEF CONTRIBUTOR TO U.S. TRADE GAP

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20

 BODY:
For the first time on record, China has surpassed Japan as the largest source of the American trade deficit, a development that could further strain relations with Beijing over what the Clinton Administration contends are unfair limits on products made in the United States.
Economists have seen this milestone coming for some time as a consequence of China's expanding role as a major Asian launching pad for exports combined with Japan's increased imports and a gradual shift of certain industrial operations to other nations. 
 Its arrival came as the Commerce Department reported a surprisingly large shrinkage in the nation's overall trade gap for June, down to $8.1 billion from $10.5 billion in May. The United States trade deficit for the first six months of the year was 14.2 percent lower than in the corresponding 1995 period.
The Clinton Administration pounced on the overall results to boast of its efforts to open foreign markets and enhance the competitiveness of American industry. The figures, declared Joseph E. Stiglitz, chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, "show the continuing pattern of improved international performance of the U.S. economy."
The deficit with China climbed in June to $3.3 billion, or 40 percent of the total American imbalance, driven mainly by American imports of toys, apparel, footwear and household goods. While the long-term trend has been clear, the Administration and other analysts said that the trade gap with China was quite volatile. It could retreat in future months, in part because China's export boom may be slackening. Moreover, much of the reason for the sharp rise in the deficit with China recently is a result of production shifts from other countries in Asia.
At the same time, the American deficit with Japan has diminished rapidly, to $3.2 billion in June from $5.3 billion a year earlier, as that country has emerged from a lengthy recession and stepped up its demand for foreign goods.
Analysts said the smaller trade deficit would add about a half of a percentage point to the 4.2 percent United States growth rate that the Commerce Department has estimated for the April-June period. This potential upward revision, however, could be mostly offset by downward revisions for other items, particularly inventories.
The narrowing of the deficit in June was almost entirely caused by a $2.6 billion drop in imports, with the greatest reductions evident in motor vehicles and parts and industrial supplies and materials.
But Mr. Stiglitz and private specialists resisted suggestions that the lower import total reflected a slowing of the economy. They noted that trade figures are unreliable guidesmonth to month, citing the fact that June's import drop followed a $1.8 billion surge in May.
Exports, meanwhile, edged down $200 million. This followed a very brisk pace in May, and left sales of goods and services to foreigners 8 percent higher for the first six months of the year than in the corresponding 1995 period.
"Our exports just keep growing," commented H. Erich Heinemann, an economist affiliated with Brimberg & Company, a New York investment house. He said this was particularly impressive at a time when many of America's major trading partners were economically weak and thus less likely to demand foreign goods. In addition, the price of exports has been falling, meaning that it takes a greater quantity of shipments to sustain the totals reported in dollars.
The deficit with China was up 8 percent in the first half but this was substantially less rapid growth than in recent years, Mickey Kantor, the Commerce Secretary, said.
China and the United States have repeatedly been at odds over a variety of trade issues. Most recently, Washington threatened to impose sanctions against Beijing for pirating computer software, movies and music but retreated at the last moment when China promised to crack down on illegal counterfeiting. Despite the continuing tensions, the Clinton Administration pushed hard to renew China's preferential trade status, arguing that cutting off the trade benefits would irreparably harm the relationship between the two nations.
Analysts were divided today as to whether China would remain the country running the largest trade surplus with the United States, or whether Japan would retake its long-held No. 1 position, at least over the next few months.
Among other factors, the Chinese are trying hard to rein in their surging economy, which is driven to a large degree by exports. American imports of Chinese goods also tend to be concentrated seasonally in the first half of the year. In addition, figures for individual pairs of trading partners swing erratically in the short run and are not adjusted for seasonal variations.
The accuracy of the figures is somewhat suspect as well, analysts noted, because a lot of Chinese trade goes through Hong Kong and may be mislabeled.
The rise of the Chinese deficit, to some extent, also reflects a structural readjustment of the American trade deficit because of the transfer to China of production formerly conducted in more advanced Asian economies, along with Japan's own efforts to remain competitive by shifting plants elsewhere.
Indeed, today's report showed that the United States is now running hefty surpluses, totaling $1.1 billion in June, with South Korea and Hong Kong and that its deficit with Singapore shrank to $48 million.
The deficit with Mexico narrowed about $100 million in June, to about $1.5 billion, with first-half exports to that country 19 percent higher than in 1995 and 27 percent higher than in 1993, the year before the North American Free Trade Agreement took effect. Imports from Mexico have soared for more than a year, reflecting the collapse of the peso that makes those goods particularly inexpensive in the United States. The deficit with Canada, the largest United States trading partner, also eased, to $2.4 billion.
Today's report also showed that the trade deficit was $9.4 billion on a three-month moving average in June, the same as in May, and that the United States had a $2.6 billion surplus in trade in advanced-technology products, up from $2.4 billion in May and in sharp contrast to last October and November when this account fell into negative territory.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "U.S. Trade Deficit" shows the U.S. trade deficits with Japan and China from 1990 to 1996. (Source: Haver Analytics)(pg. A1); "Balance of Trade" shows total U.S. imports, exports and the excess in imports over exports for goods and services from Jan. 1995 to June 1996. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. D4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; MEXICO; JAPAN; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); TRENDS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (59%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



490 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Officials Across Europe Watch Bundesbank Talks

BYLINE: International Herald Tribune 

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 20

 BODY:
The meeting Thursday of Germany's Bundesbank central council is being watched by politicians, government officials and bankers across Europe with the hope that a rate cut could spur the Continent's economies.
Meetings of the Bundesbank council are always closely watched by financial markets, but this time the stakes are sharply higher, officials said today. 
 A German rate cut would give European economies some breathing room in their efforts to cut budget deficits and trim unemployment. The Bundesbank, because of the size of the German economy and the bank's reputation as a bulwark against inflation, has great influence in European economics.
By keeping rates high, the bank forces other countries to adopt tight money policies, choking off economic recovery, to prevent their currencies from falling versus the mark.
In France, the Government faces "an ominous autumn because nothing really positive has turned up to change expectations since the social turmoil last year," an official in Paris said.
Anticipation that the Bundesbank can brighten the overall outlook centers on expectations that "a small cut could be the first of a series that could add up to a dramatic change" in the overall climate, according to Fred Irwin, an executive at Citibank in Frankfurt.
The Bundesbank has often disappointed expectations, so European officials were loath today to discuss their governments' hopes in detail. But several pointed out that there are new German domestic pressures favoring a rate cut -- notably from industrialists anxious to see the German mark continue dropping against the United States dollar, a benefit for Germany's exports.
A move by Germany to start shaving interest rates would be a political gift to leaders straining to cut spending without setting off social unrest in most European countries. Lower German rates would help Rome by strengthening the Italian currency and thus helping hold down inflation. Spain and France might be able to lower their own rates in tandem, bankers said.
Falling interest rates reduce government borrowing costs, making debt lower than it would otherwise be. In the private sector, companies are encouraged to borrow and invest in modernizing equipment, expanding businesses and creating jobs.
The possibility of reductions -- even a single percentage point over several months, which is thought to be a maximum cut since German rates are already at historic lows -- could significantly improve the prospects for Bonn and Paris to reach the targets next year qualifying them for the European Monetary Union.
"We're running out of time for governments to meet the Maastricht criteria, so people are watching the Bundesbank with particular interest this week," said Paul Horne, chief international economist at Smith Barney in Paris.
If German rates start to drop, he said, it should embolden France's central bank to cut rates, perhaps even slightly faster than Germany. That should stabilize the French franc.
A strong speculative threat looms for the franc next month, when Prime Minister Alain Juppe is due to announce an austere budget as the Government tries to catch up in its deficit-cutting program despite the failure of predicted growth to materialize so far this year. The Government already faces a threat of protest actions by public-sector unions when workers return from their summer holidays.
For markets and voters to get a sense of an improving European outlook, according to Paul Donovan, chief international economist at UBS in London, the Bundesbank needs to "engineer a cut in interest rates that keeps expectations that more cuts are coming."
Too sharp a drop, he said, "would suggest a one-time adjustment, but a small cut would send a powerful signal about a new trend." Other bankers agreed that the Bundesbank was likely to want to see the German economy digest an initial cut before lowering rates further.
Rate-cut expectations were fueled today when the German central bank reported that money-supply growth slowed last month, a sign of low inflationary pressure. The Bundesbank said that annualized growth in the M-3 money supply, its main policy guide, fell to 8.6 percent from 9.3 percent in June.
Unlike the Federal Reserve, which sets monetary policy partly with an eye to the overall health of the American economy, the Bundesbank has a narrow mandate to fight inflation and safeguard the value of the mark. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (55%); C (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE; GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



491 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
Under the Hood With Perot's Data

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20

 BODY:
Ross Perot's statistics are generally accurate. But their relevance is sometimes less than clear.
"Before our nation was formed," he declared in his speech to the Reform Party in Valley Forge, Pa., on Sunday night, "the total cost to run our government was 67 cents per person a year. Then after our nation was formed, it went up to a dollar a year. Then 120 years later, in 1910, it was up to $6.75 per person a year." 
 Mr. Perot continued: "Then we passed the income tax law amendment in 1913, and 16 years later it had gone from $6.75 to $29 per person a year. Now, strap in your seat belt and don't eject, because you can't -- today it's $5,700 a year per person."
The numbers are indisputable. What Mr. Perot has apparently done is to take the Federal budget at various points in history and divide that figure by the population. (Rounded off, the Government is spending $1.5 trillion this year, and the population is 265 million, for a per-person expenditure of $5,660.)
The question, said Charles L. Schultze, an economist at the Brookings Institution who was President Lyndon B. Johnson's budget director and President Jimmy Carter's chief economic adviser, is, "So what?"
Yes, the Government has grown since the Revolutionary War. The United States now has Social Security and Medicare and veterans benefits. There are aircraft carriers and fighter planes and the Green Berets. The country has a national highway system and national parks and a National Aeronautics and Space Administration. It has an F.B.I., a C.I.A. and a Border Patrol. It even has special prosecutors, five of them active at last count.
Which of these activities would Mr. Perot eliminate? Would he really like to return to a Government whose main activities were subduing Indians and taxing rum? He never says.
"The first step in solving any problem is to define the problem," Mr. Perot told the Reform Party delegates. But comparing the per-person cost of the Government with the cost more than 200 years ago is hardly defining the problem.
Few economists take issue with Mr. Perot's main point, which is that Government programs, and what they imply about future levels of spending and taxation, must eventually be changed if the economy is to remain healthy. "If he wants to say we have a serious long-term problem, I completely agree," said Mr. Schultze.
The Federal budget deficit this year (the difference between the Government's expenditures and its revenue) is less than half of what it was four years ago, when Mr. Perot began calling attention to the Government's fiscal mess. President Clinton and his Republican opponents now say they are dedicated to balancing the budget by 2002.
Still, Mr. Perot is right when he says the two major parties are not addressing the crisis that lies ahead. By the second or third decade of the next century, when the baby boomers begin to retire, the Government will no longer be able to afford Social Security and Medicare payments unless big changes are made in the retirement programs or onerous taxes are levied on workers.
But after describing the crisis in anecdotal terms, Mr. Perot goes no further than Bill Clinton or Bob Dole in saying how he would solve it. In an interview last month with The New York Times, President Clinton said that what was needed was "a bipartisan group that really tries outside the heat of the election to look at what the long-term demographic trends are and make sure we can finance what we're doing and take care of the real fundamental needs of the American people." That is pretty close to Mr. Perot's getting the best minds together to look under the hood.
Mr. Perot likes to describe the Government's finances in terms of assets and liabilities. In his speech in Valley Forge, he pointed to a page in the Clinton Administration's budget for the 1997 fiscal year. It shows that the Government's assets are $2.3 trillion and its liabilities $5.2 trillion. "We have a negative net worth in the Federal Government of $2.9 trillion," Mr. Perot said.
So if the Government were a business, it would be bankrupt. But the Government is not a business. "This is an absolutely ridiculous calculation," said Robert D. Reischauer, another Brookings economist, who was director of the Congressional Budget Office for eight years. "Unlike a business, the Government has the sovereign authority to meet its liabilities with its power to tax."
Moreover, as the budget explicitly makes clear, the value of many Government assets is incalculable. What, for instance, is the Grand Canyon worth? Or Lake Michigan? Or the continental shelf? How does one measure the economic value of the education of American citizens?
Here is still another way Mr. Perot made his point in Valley Forge: If Government programs are not changed, he said, people born today will have to pay taxes at rates higher than 80 percent over their working lifetimes to meet the Government's obligations.
This calculation is based on the theory of generational accounting developed by the economist Laurence J. Kotlikoff. It is valuable as a tool of analysis, said Mr. Reischauer, "but it's nothing you would want to base policy on."
Government policies, Mr. Reischauer said, would certainly be changed long before the tax rate was allowed to exceed 80 percent. Herbert Stein, who was President Richard M. Nixon's chief economic adviser and is now at the American Enterprise Institute, postulated a law that seems to apply: "If something cannot go on forever, it will stop."
Sometimes Mr. Perot's statistics do not quite prove what he says they prove. A case in point is his statement on Sunday that "since 1980, the standard of living is down for four out of five working Americans."
Officials at the Census Bureau and the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis said they had no official measurement of the standard of living.
Sharon Holman, a spokeswoman for Mr. Perot, said the data came from a Census study this summer of the share of aggregate income received by each fifth of the population. The study showed that the share of income received by the top fifth (46.9 percent) had grown since 1980 and that the share of each of the remaining four fifths had fallen.
But standard of living and income are not the same thing. For instance, families' standard of living is improved if technology brings them more conveniences at home (microwave ovens and computers, for instance), if they get more benefits from their employers (better health coverage and longer vacations) and if their necessities are acquired at less expense (lower long-distance telephone rates and gasoline prices), even if their incomes do not rise.
Moreover, some families' actual incomes may have grown since 1980 even if their share of the total national income has fallen, if others' incomes have grown even more.
To buttress his position in favor of trade restrictions, Mr. Perot said that 90 percent of the goods sold in the United States in 1950 were made here and that the figure was now below 50 percent. He also said two million manufacturing jobs had gone to Asia and 500,000 to Mexico.
Administration officials said they did not know where Mr. Perot got those figures. But they insisted that many more jobs had been created in export industries than had been lost to free trade and that the new jobs paid an average of 15 percent more than the ones lost.
One set of Mr. Perot's statistics is used on the stump by Mr. Dole as well. It is that Americans pay more in taxes than they spend for food, clothing and shelter combined.
According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis, whether this is precisely correct depends on whether one counts as a shelter expense the amount spent by investors in residential real estate.
In any event, the total amount of Federal, state and local taxes collected each year and the total amount Americans spend on food, clothing and shelter is about the same, roughly $2.2 trillion.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); ELECTIONS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); VETERANS (64%); BORDER CONTROL (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: PEROT, ROSS; ROSENBAUM, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



492 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Trade Deficit Shrinks, But Gap With China Surges
China passed Japan in June as the largest single source of the United States trade deficit, a development that could further strain relations with Beijing over what the Clinton Administration says are unfair limits by the Chinese on the sale of American products.
The deficit with China -- $3.3 billion, or 40 percent of the total American deficit -- came as the Commerce Department reported a surprisingly large decrease in the nation's overall trade gap for June, down to $8.1 billion from $10.5 billion in May. [Page A1.]
 
CBS to Enter Cable
CBS announced a new cable channel, called Eye on People, about three years after the other networks began establishing cable programming channels. [D5.]
 
Retailers Report Profit Gains
Ann Taylor reported a small second-quarter profit, in contrast to a loss in the second quarter of last year, as sales improved. Other retailers also had strong gains aided by higher sales, including Dayton Hudson and the Limited. But Talbots had a loss of 20 percent for the quarter. [D4.]
 
Blue Chips Rise, as Others Fall
Blue-chip stocks rose as the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged, as expected. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 21.82 points to 5,721.26, within striking distance of its record of 5,778.00, set May 22. But the S.& P. 500 stock index fell 0.89 point, to 665.69, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 6.24 points, to 1,124.67. [D8.]
 
Clinton Signs Minimum-Wage Bill
President Clinton signed legislation raising the minimum wage by 90 cents an hour, to $5.15, over the next year. [B6.]
 
Sprint Joins the Fray on the Internet
Sprint said it would begin offering Internet services to its customers later this year, becoming the last large long-distance company to enter the Internet market. [D4.]
 
Agreement Stalls on Open Skies
British Airways shares slipped after a report that London was taking a tough line in open-skies talks with the United States. [D6.]
 
Waiting on the Bundesbank
A meeting on Thursday of the German central bank is being watched by Government officials and bankers across Europe in the hope that an interest-rate cut in Germany could help lift other economies, as well. [D2.]
 
Tasting a Fine Pinot Across Cyberspace
Wine experts in New York and California got together on Sunday to taste pinot noir -- on the Internet. It was, they said, the first such tasting. The linkage allowed tasters at both sites to discuss the wines and compare notes. The tasting was billed as a serious inquiry into the importance of growing conditions for wines, but in New York, it was the Internet technology that caught the group's interest. [C7.]
 
British Agency Expands in New York
More O'Ferrall, one of the world's largest outdoor-advertising companies, is opening its first American office as it prepares to compete for "street furniture" accounts. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]
 
Two Sport Utility Vehicles May Roll
Consumers Union said that two sport utility vehicles, an Isuzu Trooper and an Acura SLX, could roll over during quick turns at low speed, and it demanded a recall. [A13.]
 
The Mob Infiltrates Managed Care
Law-enforcement authorities in New Jersey said they had smashed an organized-crime ring that siphoned money from group health care programs. [A1.]


GRAPHIC: Dow Industrials -- 5,721.26, up 21.82
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.79%, Unchanged
The Dollar -- 108.35 yen, up 0.54

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (55%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (55%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (52%); MORE O'FERRALL PLC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (86%); WINE (84%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RETAILERS (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



493 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS TO SELL CHECK PRINTING UNIT

BYLINE: Dow Jones 

 BODY:
Rogers Communications Inc. said yesterday that it had reached an agreement to sell its Davis & Henderson unit, a check-printing business, to the MDC Communications Corporation. Terms were not disclosed. Rogers, a diversified communications company based in Toronto, acquired Davis & Henderson as part of the purchase of Maclean Hunter Ltd. in 1994. Davis & Henderson has a nearly 50 percent share of the Canadian check market, and it is expected to generate revenue in excess of $80 million (Canadian) in the current fiscal year. It employs more than 750 people at seven plants in Canada and one in the United States. Through its United States subsidiary, Check Gallery Inc., Davis & Henderson is also involved in the check business in the United States. MDC is also based in Toronto.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RCI.A (TSX) (96%); RCI (NYSE) (96%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (70%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (87%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (87%); 

COMPANY: DAVIS & HENDERSON; ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC; MDC COMMUNICATIONS CORP ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC (96%); MACLEAN HUNTER LTD (72%); CHECK GALLERY INC (70%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAVIS & HENDERSON; ROGERS COMMUNICATIONS INC; MDC COMMUNICATIONS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (87%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (87%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MANIFOLD BUSINESS FORMS PRINTING (90%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



494 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Dole, Kemp and Their Tax Plan Make First Commercial Foray

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 20

 BODY:
Armed with a straightforward theme, a Vice-Presidential candidate and Federal financing, the Dole campaign today began broadcasting a new commercial featuring the Republican ticket and its tax plan, while attacking President Clinton on the state of the economy.
Aides to Mr. Dole said the commercial, to be broadcast in 15 states, was the first in a planned $2 million campaign through the November election. 
 With fleeting images and staccato statements reminiscent of Mr. Dole's speaking style, the advertisement distills the message he has made the center of his campaign. "Bob Dole," the narrator says. "Cut taxes. Balance the budget. Raise take-home pay. Tell the truth."
The Dole campaign, which reached Federal spending limits before the Republican convention last week, has not paid for a commercial since March 18. But the Republican National Committee has been advertising on Mr. Dole's behalf.
Broadening the attack on Mr. Clinton, a newly formed coalition of conservative groups plans to unveil an advertising campaign on Wednesday featuring women complaining about their taxes. That campaign is scheduled to begin during the Democratic National Convention in Chicago next week.
The Dole campaign said it would also have a "heavy buy" for its new advertisement in Chicago during the Democrats' convention.
The Dole advertisement tries to capitalize on the energy that Jack Kemp, the Vice-Presidential nominee, brought to the Republican convention in San Diego. Mr. Kemp is shown once in close-up -- as the terse narrator says "Jack Kemp" -- and again at the end of the advertisement, standing in a shower of confetti with Mr. Dole at the convention.
Elizabeth Dole also appears in the commercial, standing beside Mr. Dole in one image.
The Clinton campaign pointed out that Mr. Dole had not detailed how he would "balance the budget." It also challenged two other assertions in the commercial.
First, the commercial opens with the statement "Today, taxes are the highest in American history." To back that up, the Dole campaign supplied figures from the Department of Commerce listing tax receipts as a percentage of gross domestic product.
But the numbers included state and local taxes. The Federal burden was higher in 1981, according to a breakdown of the Commerce Department figures supplied by the Dole campaign itself. Further, the Clinton campaign argued, the Federal tax rate for a typical family is lower now than when Mr. Clinton took office.
The commercial continues: "Bill Clinton says we have the healthiest economy in 'three decades.' Believe that?"
The Clinton campaign pointed to a speech Mr. Dole gave before the New Hampshire Legislature on Feb. 13. In his prepared remarks for that speech, Mr. Dole said, "Our economy is the strongest it's been in 30 years."
The Clinton campaign said it had a videotape of the actual speech, in which Mr. Dole changed the words but not the thrust of the comment. Tonight the campaign was considering including that footage in a new commercial.
But in his speech, Mr. Dole went on to argue that despite record corporate profits, "middle-class families feel less and less secure about the future." He called for "a balanced budget with real tax relief."
In its advertisement, the Dole campaign, which has been trying to appeal to female voters, uses a male narrator with a slightly gravelly, older-sounding voice. By contrast, a newly formed group, Women for Tax Reform, plans to feature a woman criticizing Mr. Clinton in its new advertisement, to be broadcast next week. "I'm scared he's going to raise my taxes -- again," the woman says.
Lisa Kruska, a spokeswoman for the group, said it would spend $50,000 broadcasting the commercial in Chicago and nationally next week. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 23, 1996, FridayAugust 23, 1996, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about political advertising misstated the amount that the Dole campaign expects to spend on commercials through the Presidential election. It is $25 million, not $2 million.
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about political advertising misstated the amount that the Dole campaign expects to spend on commercials through the Presidential election. It is $25 million, not $2 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; KEMP, JACK F; BENNET, JAMES BILL CLINTON (93%); ELIZABETH DOLE (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



495 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 21, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: The Vision Thing

BYLINE: By Fareed Zakaria; Fareed Zakaria is managing editor of Foreign Affairs.

 BODY:
The Republican Party has been bush-whacked on foreign policy. Still scarred by the fate of George Bush, whom the public faulted for his focus on crises abroad at the expense of problems at home, the G.O.P. has been inarticulate about one of its cardinal strengths.
The San Diego convention mimicked the silence of the primaries. The few short speeches devoted to foreign policy seemed more an effort to build a case against President Clinton than to present a Republican agenda for America's role in the world. Foreign policy may not be a vote-getter, but if Mr. Dole continues to ignore it, his candidacy, his party and the country will be hurt. 
 There is nothing wrong with an unabashedly partisan attack on the Administration's foreign policy, as James Baker's spirited convention speech demonstrated. That's what democratic politics is all about. And there is much to criticize -- the focus on peripheral countries like Haiti, the casual use of threats and promises in Bosnia and the I-love-you, I-love-you-not flip-flops on China.
But the Republican Party must put forth its own ideas -- sensible, hardheaded ideas, not mere bluster about American hegemony. As his speech at the convention showed, Bob Dole has good instincts on foreign policy -- his vow to follow through on commitments or not make them at all, for example. Still, they are no more than instincts.
Without a set of principles, Republicans are already floundering. Their foreign policy is becoming a collection of knee-jerk reactions to Mr. Clinton. If the President imposes a ban on trade with Cuba, Republicans clamor that they want an even bigger ban. If he orders sanctions against Libya and Iran, Republicans call for more sanctions. If he is in favor of NATO expansion, Republicans want NATO expansion, now!
Some of these policies are wise, some silly. But all are born of a reflexive desire to outflank the President. In the 1950's, a similar inability to construct a foreign policy caused Congressional Republicans to advocate extreme positions intended to outflank Harry Truman. They accused Secretary of State Dean Acheson of appeasing the Soviet Union. And Senator Joseph McCarthy launched his hunt for Communists at home.
The danger of a vacuum is that it will be filled. If Bob Dole and Jack Kemp do not define Republican principles of foreign policy, Patrick Buchanan and Pat Robertson will. Brimming with phony solutions to imaginary problems, Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Robertson will use their persistence and eloquence to shift the terms of debate, even if party leaders keep them out of the limelight. Then, mainstream internationalist Republicans will have to spend their time explaining why they do not believe that the North American Free Trade Agreement is a fiendish Wall Street plot to impoverish the American worker or that the United States has ceded its sovereignty to an international cartel headed by David Rockefeller.
If such a transformation seems far-fetched, remember that it has happened before. In 1910, the Republican Party was the party of internationalism and resolve. Its leading lights were men like Theodore Roosevelt, Henry Cabot Lodge, John Hay and Elihu Root, all of them passionate about America's rising place in the world. Yet some 15 years later, the Republican Party had become the party of isolationism and neutrality. G.O.P. luminaries like Col. Robert McCormick, publisher of The Chicago Tribune, and Senators Gerald Nye and William E. Borah passionately called for America to withdraw from the world.
These two competing traditions -- not so much isolationism versus internationalism as paranoid nativism versus responsible internationalism -- have always vied for primacy within the G.O.P. The party of Henry Stimson, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Henry Kissinger, Ronald Reagan and George Bush is also the party of Robert Taft, Joseph McCarthy and Patrick Buchanan. The cold war insured that common sense usually triumphed, but that is not guaranteed in a world without a threat like the Soviet Union. It will certainly not happen without leadership.
What should the Republican Party stand for in foreign affairs? It should, of course, emphasize consistency, credibility and realism, as Mr. Dole promises to do. But it must also embrace a larger conception of America's role in the world.
Some Republicans, most notably William Kristol, editor of the Weekly Standard, and Robert Kagan, a former policy analyst for the Bush Administration, urge a return to Ronald Reagan's idea of that broader role. In a recent article in Foreign Affairs, they advocated a "neo-Reaganite" policy that combines a huge military buildup with the worldwide export of American democracy.
They are right to advocate a larger vision, but to make the goal "American hegemony," as they do, is self-defeating. The surest way to invite challenges to our leadership is to gloat about American dominance. Our allies -- not to mention China -- are now wealthier, more confident and no longer threatened by an "evil empire." Their response to American "leadership" on sanctions on Cuba, Libya and Iran has been to reject our calls for unity and busily trade with all these countries.
So to ask for a Reaganite foreign policy today is to forget that Ronald Reagan operated in a world with a Soviet threat that is now history. What's more, an agenda that puts international social engineering (the promotion of democracy) at the top of the list would seem to embrace the fanciful dreams of Woodrow Wilson (and Anthony Lake, President Clinton's national security adviser) rather than the hardheaded Republican realism of Theodore Roosevelt.
A more reasonable, if no less ambitious, foreign policy goal is to place the post-1945 world that America shaped on a firm footing. The United States must renew the institutions, alliances and policies that can maintain or even strengthen the global economy and peace among the great powers.
Relations with the great powers must be a priority. (If this seems obvious, consider that Secretary of State Warren Christopher has traveled to Damascus more often than he has to Tokyo or Bonn.) As the second and third largest economies in the world, Germany and Japan must be enlisted in the enormous task of reforming the Bretton Woods system, which sustains the open world economy.
The two countries must also be given permanent seats on the United Nations Security Council. Or perhaps some other organization, such as an expanded Group of Seven, should be used as a vehicle for big-power decision-making. Russia and China must be deterred from external aggression, but we cannot respond to every action they take along their borders. Unless we intend to be the world's policeman, our goal must be the creation of regional powers.
Finally, a sound Republican foreign policy would maintain not only America's military might but also its economic vitality. Domestic measures to raise national productivity, for example, would help shrink the trade deficit, easing the pressure for self-defeating protectionism.
This is an ambitious agenda, but one rooted in the realities of power. As Jack Kemp said, quoting Abraham Lincoln, Republicans can serve their party best by serving their country.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 1996, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Aug. 21 by Fareed Zakaria incorrectly identified Robert Kagan. He was a State Department policy planner in the Reagan Administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HAITI (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: ZAKARIA, FAREED; DOLE, BOB; KEMP, JACK F; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 1996



496 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S., Now Meet the Reasonable Man

 BODY:
To the Editor:
J. D. Foster, in "Tax Man Blues" (Op-Ed, Aug. 19), paints a sympathetic portrait of Internal Revenue Service examiners as helpless agents forced by Congress and the President to rigidly administer a cumbersome and anachronistic tax code, thereby engendering undeserved animosity from the public. 
 What Mr. Foster fails to mention, however, is that I.R.S. caseworkers actually have a great deal of de facto discretion in administering the code. Unfortunately, they all too often fail to adopt the flexible, "reasonable man" approach necessary to reach constructive solutions for small and midsize businesses, which have increasingly become the engine of American economic growth.
I.R.S. officials should remember that they are civil servants whose job is to keep America in business. Bankrupting viable concerns through mechanistic imposition of onerous penalties is a Pyrrhic victory achieved at taxpayer expense. So drop the Nuremberg defense, Mr. Foster. It went out with World War II.
 
TERESA H. WYSZOMIERSKI
Maspeth, Queens, Aug. 19, 1996
 
The writer is a lawyer.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (53%); 

STATE: NUREMBERG, GERMANY (53%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (53%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (53%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (95%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INCOME TAX (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: FOSTER, J D; WYSZOMIERSKI, TERESA H

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



497 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Still Leads Field in Arms Trade

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Russia Outstrips U.S. as Chief Arms Seller to Developing Nations" (news article, Aug. 20) needs to be put in context. 
 While Russia took the lead in new arms sales agreements to the third world during 1995, roughly two-thirds of its $6 billion in sales represented just one large deal with China to buy Russian fighter aircraft and related equipment. By other measures of the world arms trade, the United States remains the leader.
While Russia led in new sales agreements, the United States delivered more weaponry to the third world than any other nation in 1995. Over the last four years, the United States has concluded roughly half of all arms sales worldwide, more than all other major suppliers combined.
The real news from this report is that selling arms to the third world is a dead-end market economically; at $15 billion for 1995, the developing world's arms imports dropped to just one-quarter of their peak in 1988. Before the Clinton Administration and Congress listen to the cries of arms makers for more subsidies to help them "catch up with the Russians" in the arms trade, we should consider that the shrinking demand for high-tech armaments represents an unprecedented opportunity for controlling the arms trade.
To do so, governments should cut subsidies for arms sales ($7.6 billion in the United States last year) and adhere to a strict code of conduct on weapons exports modeled on legislation sponsored by Senator Mark Hatfield and Representative Cynthia McKinney. The code would curtail the President's ability to send weaponry to governments that engage in aggression against their neighbors, violate the human rights of their own citizenry or come to power through undemocratic means.
Rather than view Russia's modest success in a depressed market as a call to promote American weaponry more aggressively, the Clinton Administration or its successor should face up to the economic and political realities of the post-cold-war arms market and press for controls that will serve the long-term economic and security interests of all nations.
 
WILLIAM D. HARTUNG
New York, Aug. 21, 1996
 
The writer is a senior research fellow at the World Policy Institute of the New School for Social Research.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: WORLD POLICY INSTITUTE

ORGANIZATION: WORLD POLICY INSTITUTE

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ARMS SALES ABROAD; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); ARMS TRADE (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (71%); ETHICS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: HARTUNG, WILLIAM D HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (83%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



498 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off Against the Mark As Rate-Cut Hopes Diminish

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell against the mark and most other currencies yesterday after a German research group reported a sharp rise in business confidence, dimming expectations for lower interest rates in Germany.
The unexpectedly strong data from the Ifo Economic Research Institute came one day before the Bundesbank's policy-making council was to meet for the first time since a monthlong summer break. There has been widespread expectation that the central bank will lower rates to stimulate the economy. 
 "The Ifo survey definitely had an impact," said Charles Spence, director of Treasury sales at the New York branch of Standard Chartered Bank of Britain. "Everyone has been looking for the Bundesbank to ease rates, and this number has created a bit of concern."
The mark strengthened broadly on the report, particularly against the Japanese yen. The weakness in the yen partly helped the dollar advance for the third straight day against the Japanese currency but the dollar was generally lower otherwise.
As of 4 P.M. in New York, the dollar traded at 108.46 yen, up from 108.35 yen Tuesday. The dollar traded at 1.4825 marks, down from 1.4885. The British pound cost $1.5500, up from $1.5475.
The foreign-exchange market had anticipated only a slight rise in the German indicator, consistent with other evidence that Germany is recovering slowly from a prolonged slump. But the size of the increase may have convinced Bundesbank policy makers that a decrease in interest rates is not needed.
"We sort of keep swinging back and forth on this question: Are they going to cut or not cut?" said Roger Chapin, foreign-exchange manager at Bank One in Columbus, Ohio.
The prevailing view had been that the Bundesbank would cut 10 to 15 basis points from its securities repurchase rate, an important short-term rate that has remained at 3.30 percent since February. Lower rates would make mark-denominated holdings worth less. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
"A 10-to-15-basis-point cut is already built into the market," said Ronald Simpson, vice president-foreign exchange at the New York Branch of the Industrial Bank of Japan. "If for whatever reason the Bundesbank doesn't cut, the dollar could get trashed." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (57%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (57%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (57%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN LTD (52%); IFO ECONOMIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: IFO ECONOMIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (95%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); BANK BRANCHES (76%); BRITISH POUND (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



499 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 709 words

HEADLINE: Tobacco Shares Lead Drop As Dow Falls 31.44 Points

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Stocks were generally lower yesterday for the first time in nearly a week, hurt by rising interest rates and a slump in tobacco shares.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 31.44 points, to 5,689.82, led by Philip Morris, which accounted for more than a third of the Dow's decline. 
 Philip Morris, the nation's biggest cigarette company, fell 3 7/8, to 87 5/8, after Michigan, Kansas and Arizona joined 11 other states suing tobacco companies for the cost of caring for ailing smokers.
As the stock market closed, White House officials said President Clinton would announce Food and Drug Administration rules governing tobacco on Friday. The rules might regulate tobacco as a drug and further limit advertising.
Other tobacco shares slid, too. RJR Nabisco Holding, maker of Camel cigarettes, dropped 1 3/8, to 25 1/4; Loews, which owns Lorillard, the maker of Kent cigarettes, dropped 1 1/4, to 76 5/8; the Universal Corporation, a tobacco processor, fell 3/4, to 26 1/8, and UST Inc., a snuff maker, fell 7/8, to 30 7/8.
"I don't think it's over yet" for tobacco stocks, said Cummins Catherwood, manager of $350 million in assets at Rutherford, Brown & Catherwood in Philadelphia. "This is ugly; let's face it. It's a pile-on."
Broader indexes were mostly lower, though the Nasdaq index eked out a small gain. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.33 points, then rallied to 665.07, a 0.62-point loss for the day. The Nasdaq also rebounded late in the day to 1,126.84, up 2.17, from a 5.86-point loss.
Software stocks skidded for a second day, after Goldman, Sachs & Company removed the Oracle Corporation from its list of recommended stocks. Oracle, the second-most-active stock, with 7.4 million shares traded, dropped 1 1/8, to 37 7/8. Goldman cited weaker-than-expected sales of Oracle's data base management software in Europe for its lower rating.
Stocks were hurt by a reversal in the bond market, as prices fell on concern that the Federal Reserve would still need to raise short-term interest rates, even after leaving rates unchanged on Tuesday. The yield on the 30-year bond -- a benchmark for corporate and consumer interest rates -- rose to 6.83 percent from 6.79 percent on Tuesday. Bond prices and their yields move in opposite directions.
Without the fuel provided by lower or at least steady interest rates, investors may find little reason to send share prices higher, money managers said.
"If we should see any pronounced weakness in the bond market, then I think the stock market would have a very hard time," said George Mairs, president of Mairs & Power in Minneapolis, with $500 million under management. "It would be very difficult for the market to make new highs."
Among the biggest gainers today, Newbridge Networks soared 9 3/8, to 59 3/8. First-quarter earnings at Newbridge, a Canadian maker of telephone equipment, jumped 64 percent because of surging sales of switching devices. Analysts at Cowen & Company and J. P. Morgan raised their investment recommendations on Newbridge.
Wet Seal surged 4 5/8, to an all-time high of 34 3/8. The company, a retailer of casual clothing, earned 25 cents a share in its second quarter, in contrast to a loss of 6 cents a share a year earlier. Analysts had expected earnings of 12 cents a share.
Jenny Craig Inc. fell 5 5/8, to 11 1/2. The company, a franchiser of weight-loss centers, said publicity about new diet drugs had hurt its business this summer.
Compuserve tumbled 1 5/8, to 11 7/8. The company, which provides computer on-line services, reported a fiscal first-quarter loss and warned of another loss in its second quarter. H& R Block Inc., which plans to spin off to shareholders its 80.1 percent stake in Compuserve in early November, fell 3/4, to 27 5/8.
Players International slid 13/16, to 6 1/16, after Salomon Brothers lowered its rating on the company to "hold" from "buy" because of weaker revenues at its casinos in Louisiana and Illinois.
TSX Corp. sank 2 3/16 to 11 13/16. The company said earnings in its fiscal first quarter rose to 22 cents a share from 20 cents a year earlier, matching analysts' expectations. Still, sales and earnings at the company's advertisement insertion business dropped from a year earlier.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (83%); UVV (NYSE) (69%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (83%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (83%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (83%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (83%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (69%); NAICS423310 LUMBER, PLYWOOD, MILLWORK & WOOD PANEL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (56%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (83%); UST INC (69%); UNIVERSAL CORP (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); KRAFT NABISCO (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (72%); KANSAS, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE TOBACCO INDUSTRY (92%); TOBACCO MFG (91%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



500 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
Many Women On Workfare Express Hope

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
IT seems that everybody has an opinion on whether welfare mothers should work. The Mayor and Congress do. So do social workers, welfare advocates and an occasional judge.
But what of welfare recipients themselves? What do they think about local -- and now national -- requirements that they work in exchange for their benefits? It depends. The welfare population is no more monolithic than any other. 
 Many of the people crammed into the city's Emergency Assistance Unit in the Bronx expressed rage when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said this week that they had to work even though they were homeless. The Mayor quickly reversed himself, which was a wise move because many in the Bronx office are deeply troubled and burdened, unlikely to hold a job no matter what their accommodations.
But welfare mothers from more stable circumstances have started to join the childless adults now in the city's expanding workfare program, and in interviews this week, several women voiced a notable level of support for the idea of working. They said that they want to work, that most welfare recipients should work, and they even suggested that their lives might have taken a different course had welfare rules been made stricter sooner.
There was certainly nothing scientific about the interviews, but they were unrehearsed, and the women seemed to be speaking from the heart.
THEY should've done this a long time ago," said Elizabeth Elder, who works in Pelham Bay Park in the Bronx, picking up trash. "If they had, there wouldn't be children having children. Maybe if they knew they had to come to work every morning, it would make them more ambitious." Ms. Elder, 29, has four children, ages 12, 8, 7 and 5. Had rules been stricter when she was younger, she said, she might have "thought twice" about some of the choices she made.
Ms. Elder, on welfare since the mid-1980's, works four hours a day in the workfare program while an aunt looks after the children. But women without a relative to help, or the money for child care, may face serious problems, since the new Federal welfare legislation does not provide enough money to guarantee child care.
Wanda Baez could have a child care problem soon. The unemployed father of her three young children cares for them when she works in the park, but he is so impatient with them, she said, that the arrangement may not last. Still, Ms. Baez, like Ms. Elder, approves of the new approach to welfare. "A lot of people, knowing they have to work for welfare, they'll stay in school," she explained. Had she been required to work earlier, said Ms. Baez, 21, she might have had just one child.
Gloria L., a shy woman of 39 who asked that her last name not appear in print, has two children, 14 and 5. A friend takes care of them while she works. Gloria hasn't been able to find a job since coming to New York in 1992 from Florida, where she worked in a clothing factory. "If only welfare gave training," she said. But she calls the new work policy the "right" one: "Welfare is abused. I know many people who have part-time jobs and they still get the welfare. It is a problem."
LIKE Gloria, Martha Carter wants a real job. Ms. Carter, 33, works in the kitchen at the Pelham-Fritz Recreation Center in Harlem for the Department of the Aging. "I really want to be on the payroll," she said. Ms. Carter works four hours a day; her son, 8, is in a summer program and in the fall, her work schedule will coincide with his school hours.
Elizabeth Washington expects to have a similar set-up in the fall, when her two youngest children go back to elementary school and she continues at her new workfare job in Mt. Morris Park. Not that Ms. Washington intends to be doing that for very long. The 45-year-old mother of six, on welfare for 10 years -- "too long," she said yesterday -- has been studying at Touro College, and wants to work with the elderly or the disabled. She would prefer to earn a regular salary, but in the meantime, cleaning the park 20 hours a week -- for a "salary" of her benefits and carfare -- is all right with her. "I don't have a problem," she said. "If people can work they should, and not just rely on free money."
The city began assigning welfare mothers -- and some fathers -- to jobs only last month. Many may become disillusioned if, as expected, workfare does not lead to permanent employment. But for now, among some welfare recipients, at least, the stricter policies of states, cities and Washington seem to have engendered something oddly resembling optimism.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (72%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



501 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: $100 Million Fund Will Finance Java-Based Ventures

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 21

 BODY:
A leading venture capital firm has formed a $100 million fund to invest in companies that will create software and related products based on the Java programming language developed by Sun Microsystems Inc.
Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the Menlo Park, Calif., firm that was the primary backer of the Netscape Communications Corporation, as well as an early investor in Sun, has attracted a parade of high-technology giants to the fund. Along with Sun Microsystems, other investors are Cisco Systems, Comcast, Compaq Computer, I.B.M., Itochu, Netscape, Oracle, Tele-Communications Inc.,Technology Ventures and the U S West Media Group. 
 But most of the capital in the KPCB Java Fund will come from Kleiner Perkins' usual limited partners, which are primarily endowments and institutions.
Shares of Sun rose 50 cents, to $53.75, in Nasdaq trading. Plans for the fund were reported in an article in The Wall Street Journal today.
"This fund is about investing in companies that are going to build applications," John Doerr, a general partner in Kleiner Perkins, said today in a phone interview. Those applications need not be written entirely in Java, and the companies are free to use rival products as well, like the Microsoft Corporation's Activex.
"This is not some kind of anti-Microsoft coalition," Mr. Doerr said. "Some of Microsoft's strongest partners as well as some of their strongest foes are in the fund." He noted that Microsoft was already a co-investor with Kleiner Perkins in four start-up companies.
Still, other venture capitalists said the fund was likely to run up against Microsoft. "If you're talking about Java with a capital 'J' as the structure for a new operating system, that's a challenge," said John Hummer, general partner in Hummer Winblad Venture Partners, a venture capital firm in Emeryville, Calif.
Pam Edstrom, a spokeswoman for Microsoft, declined to address the question of the Java fund directly, saying that "Microsoft believes the Internet will spawn a whole host of venture funds and companies."
 Part of Java's appeal is that programs created with it can run on a multitude of operating systems, thus weakening, at least in theory, Microsoft's stranglehold on that part of the software market. Java also allows the distribution across the Internet of tiny "applets," small programs that customers could pay for as used or as needed, with the potential to change the economic model of the software industry.
But to date, most programs created with Java have been whimsical bits of animation and other demonstration projects. For Sun, the fund is a way to promote the production of industrial-strength applications using its tools.
"When Java was really taking off, the question was how do you get applications going," Eric Schmidt, Sun's chief technical officer, said in a phone interview. "We could have funded companies ourselves, but we don't have that kind of expertise."
While Sun expects a positive return on its investment, "the real goal is to continue the Java momentum," he said.
The fund has already invested in three companies: Active Software, Calico Technology and Marimba. Active's software allows dissimilar programs like applications, data bases and Java-enabled browsers to exchange data across corporate intranets and the Internet. Calico's products automate the configuration and quotation of build-to-order products and services. Marimba is producing technologies for deploying network-aware Java applications.
Mr. Doerr said that the fund would ultimately invest in 20 to 30 companies in the next three to four years, and that it would be a minority investor in each company.
Though Kleiner Perkins has already experienced a deluge of Java-based business models from would-be entrepreneurs, Mr. Doerr said he believed the creation of the fund would lead to more investment in the most viable companies.
"In our judgment, the best opportunity right now is in making intranet enterprise applications" for corporate computing, Mr. Doerr said. "I think this has moved well beyond the hype-and-fad phase." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); AOL (NYSE) (84%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (83%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (83%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; KPCB JAVA FUND; MICROSOFT CORP KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (93%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (92%); MICROSOFT CORP (92%); AOL INC (84%); HUMMER WINBLAD VENTURE PARTNERS (83%); U S WEST MEDIA GROUP (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; KPCB JAVA FUND; MICROSOFT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (90%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (90%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (78%); STARTUPS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (73%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: DOERR, JOHN; SCHMIDT, ERIC; FISHER, LAWRENCE M L JOHN DOERR (89%); ERIC E SCHMIDT (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



502 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Economists' anti-regulatory rationale is facing a change.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
IT is hardly news that mainstream economists think regulation often does more harm than good. After all, liberals joined conservatives in efforts to deregulate the airline, trucking and rail industries. And economists have been the most constant allies of trade liberalization. What may come as a surprise, though, is how their rationale is changing.
The argument that regulators too often become servants to those they are supposed to control is being displaced by an older objection to regulation. A new book by Peter Pitsch, an economist and lawyer who cut his own regulatory teeth on the staff of the Federal Communications Commission, draws on the ideas of the economists Joseph Schumpeter and Friedrich von Hayek to argue that the likely benefits in taming corporate power pale beside the costs in delaying and distorting innovation. 
 While not everyone will swallow it, Mr. Pitsch's analysis of telecommunications regulation in "The Innovation Age" (Hudson Institute) offers an easy introduction to what is becoming the new orthodoxy.
The classic defense of regulation in free markets is straightforward: regulators are like sports referees, making sure no one cheats and adjudicating the close calls. So, too, is the explanation for why the best intentions of the New Dealers who put most of the regulation in place have gone awry. Interests ranging from truckers to power utilities to local building contractors have managed to co-opt regulation, using it to feather their own nests at the expense of consumers and potential competitors.
Regulated airline travel, for example, was a delight, if you happened to be an airline pilot or had a generous expense account. The scramble that followed deregulation may have reduced the standard airline meal to a bag of pretzels, but it also transformed air travel from a luxury to a right of middle-class life.
The new critique of regulation is quite different. At its very best, the argument goes, regulation works by preventing monopolists from pushing prices above costs and reasonable profits. But the "static" gains in curbing monopolistic practices are likely to be small compared with the "dynamic" losses from slowing technological change and distorting its direction.
Mr. Pitsch cites the case of cable television, where local systems are often monopolies because it rarely pays to string a second set of wires. Not surprisingly, rates rose after cable was deregulated in 1986. But research by Thomas Hazlett of the University of California at Davis suggests that consumers were still better off because the dynamic efficiency gains exceeded static losses: deregulation stimulated investment in programming that more than offset the price increases. By the same token, Mr. Pitsch argues that re-regulation in 1992 stopped the proliferation of new cable channels.
Or consider allocation of the airwaves. Until last year, Washington assigned specific uses to the radio spectrum -- television, radio, cellular phones -- and gave away the right to use it to companies deemed most worthy. The F.C.C. is now authorized to recoup windfalls for the taxpayers by auctioning the spectrum to the highest bidders. But Mr. Pitsch notes that reformers have thus far neglected the more important issue of insuring highest and best use by letting markets rather than bureaucrats determine how the spectrum will be employed.
The resulting losses, he argues, have been enormous. In the 1950's and 1960's a shortage of spectrum for VHF television limited programming diversity by preventing the creation of a fourth network. In the 1970's, delays in spectrum allocation slowed cellular phone development and inhibited competition once the systems were in place -- at a cost of $86 billion, according to an analysis by the National Economic Research Associates.
Mr. Pitsch does not counsel abandonment of Government oversight of free enterprise. But he persuasively argues that regulators should stay far above the fray -- for example, capping average prices for phone service, but allowing flexibility in the pricing of individual services.
The weak link here is in the setting of technical standards -- for example, the rules that allow tens of thousands of separately designed types of telephone equipment to interconnect. Mr. Pitsch is rightly critical of Japan's premature commitment to a standard for high-definition television that was obsolete before the first sets were sold. But his insistence on the superiority of letting markets set their own standards seems glib when the very biggest players in the technology game -- the Microsofts, Intels and Motorolas -- may have both the incentives and the muscle to impose inferior standards.
But this is a small blemish to the case that less is more. "The Innovation Age" is a handy guide to the frontier of telecommunications policy. More important, it is a painless introduction to the way economists are now rethinking regulation.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (56%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (56%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY DEREGULATION (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (84%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (84%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); MONOPOLIZATION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; PITSCH, PETER FRIEDRICH AUGUST VON HAYEK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



503 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Yields At Highest In 3 Weeks

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The prices of government securities fell yesterday, sending the yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond up to its highest point in three weeks, as concern persisted that the Federal Reserve might still raise interest rates this year.
The decision not to raise rates on Tuesday at a meeting of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee left many bond analysts and traders worried that the Fed might have missed an opportunity to stay ahead of inflationary pressures. Inflation is not seen as a problem right now, but the market trades on expectations. 
 Bill Gamba, senior vice president and head of government bond trading at Cowen & Company, said, "The market should have done better on Tuesday, after the Fed passed on changing its monetary policy, and the fact that we didn't is a negative."
So, he said, yesterday's selling reflected a general concern that there was no rally and on anticipation of future Fed action, either before or after the election on Nov. 5.
The Fed last adjusted interest rates in January when it lowered the Federal funds rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans, by 25 basis points, to its current level of 5.25 percent.
By the close of the New York cash market yesterday, the 30-year bond was down 14/32 to a price of 99 to yield 6.83 percent, up from 6.79 percent on Tuesday. The yield is at its highest point since Aug. 1, when it was also 6.83 percent.
Traders said another reason bond prices were under pressure was the Treasury's announcement yesterday that it planned to sell $31.25 billion in two- and five-year notes next week. With many prospective buyers away on vacation, there is some worry that the market may have a difficult time absorbing this fresh supply of debt.
Moreover, investors are reluctant to take positions for fear that crucial August economic data still to be reported, including nonfarm payrolls and the National Association of Purchasing Management index, could be stronger than expected, increasing the risk of inflationary pressure.
In when-issued trading ahead of next week's auctions, the new two-year note was being offered to prospective buyers at a price to yield 6 percent, while the five-year notes were offered at a price to yield 6.36 percent.
Today's report on weekly jobless claims could be a potential market mover, if the claims continue to decline substantially, convincing traders that recent declines -- which have evoked little response -- were not a fluke.
Hamilton Davis, a vice president for government trading at Everen Securities in Chicago, said volume yesterday was quite low with shorter-maturity issues holding steady, while longer issues gave up ground.
"One explanation is that there is some investor nervousness over the perception that both political parties are advocating pro-growth agendas," he said. "In that environment, they believe inflation has a better chance of picking up."
"We did hear of some people taking profits, with some hedge funds selling in the 10-year sector," Mr. Davis said. "Our customers have been better buyers of paper with maturities of five years and shorter." He added that the Fed could still act to push up rates this year, despite the political fallout in doing so before an election.
Looking ahead, Mr. Davis said that given the poor performance at the recent refunding, particularly the 10-year notes, buyers would try to get a bigger concession for the two- and five-year debt.
Yesterday, without the benefit of important economic data to give it direction, the cash market took its cue from the technical side of trading. Robin Mesch, chief fixed-income analyst with Thomson Research of Boston, said that since Aug. 13, the bulk of trading in the September bond futures contract had been contained between prices of 110 24/32 and 111 4/32. "Today, market activity was successful in moving beyond these constraints," she said, "but given that volume was light, the bearish tone of today's trading may be ephemeral and would evaporate with a rally to as little as 110 31/32."
"We see more range trading for Thursday, and doubt if the market can break further than 110 4/32-to-110 8/32," Ms. Mesch said. Yesterday, the September contact closed at 110 21/32, after opening to the downside -- below the buyers' and sellers' consensus point of fair-market value at 110 31/32.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since May. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) (pg. D13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (70%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT COWEN GROUP INC (70%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (63%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (66%); INTERBANK LENDING (66%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT HAMILTON DAVIS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



504 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: IOWA -- The Race for Congress;
Surprise Winner in '94 Becomes a Target in '96

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: DES MOINES

 BODY:
Decked out in cowboy boots and blue jeans and carrying a pitcher in each hand, Dr. Greg Ganske, the Representative of Iowa's Fourth Congressional District, was looking to harvest a few votes recently by playing waiter at the pork tent at the Iowa State Fair.
Dr. Ganske, a 47-year-old plastic surgeon turned freshman Republican Congressman, was going from table to table, pouring water and iced tea, shaking hands and swapping stories about crop prices and greased pigs. It was back in 1994, while on his way to an upset victory over Neil Smith, the Democrat who had represented the district since the Eisenhower Administration, that Dr. Ganske pulled a hamstring chasing greased pigs in a campaign stop at a county fair, somewhere else in the state. 
 "But I didn't quit," Dr. Ganske said in a recent interview. "I saw it as being emblematic of my promise to fight pork in Washington."
Not far away, Connie McBurney, a former Des Moines television weathercaster who is Dr. Ganske's Democratic challenger, was working the fairgrounds, too. At one point, the candidates passed each another inside an exhibition building full of shiny tractors, although they did not exchange a glance.
But these days Dr. Ganske is in the cross-hairs of Iowa Democrats, who have spent the last two years stewing over their loss of a district that had been on their side of the House for 36 years. Among party strategists in Washington, Dr. Ganske is near the top of the list of freshmen Republicans marked for defeat in November, marked as a loyal foot soldier in the Republican revolution led by Speaker Newt Gingrich.
To that end, party allies in the labor movement have unrolled a series of radio and television advertisements in the district attacking Dr. Ganske's voting record on everything from the environment to pensions. As in other districts, the advertisements, financed by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., also accuse Dr. Ganske of trying to cripple Medicare, fighting words in a state where 15.2 percent of the population is over age 65, one of the highest percentages in the nation.
The Fourth District stretches from central Iowa to the Missouri River on the west and includes farm towns and the city of Des Moines in Polk County -- the state capital and the district's heart and soul. Nearly 60 percent of the district's voters live in Polk County.
Since 1991, when the district's lines were redrawn, the Fourth has included Council Bluffs on its western edge, where the politics are more conservative.
The district also has 11 mostly rural counties, where it pays for a candidate to know a thing or two about life on the farm. Both Dr. Ganske and Ms. McBurney do: He owns a 160-acre farm outside Des Moines, while she is quick to point out that she comes from four generations of farmers.
Polk County supported Bill Clinton in 1992 and Michael S. Dukakis before him. Still, the state's Republican Governor, Terry E. Branstad, carried the county in 1994, although not as handily as elsewhere in the state. Dr. Ganske also did well in Polk County in 1994, losing it by less than 5,000 votes. His stronghold was Council Bluffs.
"Des Moines tends to lean towards the Democrats," said Peverill Squire, a professor of political science at the University of Iowa in Iowa City. "The suburbs went heavily for Ganske last time. It's going to be interesting around here this year. It's going to be a very close race."
No one around here thought Dr. Ganske had a chance two years ago against Mr. Smith, who had represented the district for 36 years.
Mr. Smith, a liberal and the third-ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Committee, apparently did not think Dr. Ganske had much of a chance either. He ran an indifferent campaign, experts say, opening the door for Dr. Ganske, who spent $500,000 of his own money on the race. The doctor also drove throughout the district in a DeSoto, vintage 1958, the year that Mr. Smith first went to Washington.
"Ganske promised his own money for what seemed like a suicide mission and then lightning struck," said Dennis Goldfold, professor of political science at Drake University in Des Moines. "Ganske was at the right place at the right time."
Since going to Washington, Dr. Ganske has signed the Contract With America and, until recently, was a loyal Gingrich follower. But along with other Gingrich Republicans running for re-election, he has tried to distance himself from the Speaker on some issues, including Medicaid financing for rural hospitals, with yet-to-be-determined success.
"The reason I got into this race," Ms. McBurney said in an interview, "was because I felt very strongly that the direction this particular Congress was going was wrong. And Mr. Ganske has supported the Gingrich agenda right down the line."
Ms. McBurney, 56, has never run for political office before. After 24 years as a weathercaster for a CBS-TV affiliate in Des Moines, she has spent the last two years as a children's advocate in the lone children's hospital in the state, lecturing citizens groups and politicians on children's health and welfare issues. Her expertise has become a bulwark of her campaign. But her television career has provided her with her strongest asset in the race, instant name recognition.
" 'Here's Connie with the weather,' was kind of a household phrase around here," said Ron Eckles, a Ganske supporter who was renting parking spaces in his backyard across from the fairgrounds. "But I think Ganske is sincere. He's a doctor. He could make a lot more money with a shingle than a title."
The air smelled like rain, and that reminded Mr. Eckles of one more reason he planned to vote for Dr. Ganske. "Connie couldn't get the weather right," he said. "And you have a 50-50 chance."
But Dr. Ganske knows that name recognition is almost as good as money in the bank. "It's going to be a vigorous campaign," he said.
Dr. Ganske so far has the advantage in fund raising. The latest figures provided by the two campaigns show him with $300,000 on hand and his opponent with $70,000.
In its 150-year history, Iowa has never sent a woman to Congress. Marti Rivers, 44, who was eating at the pork tent, said she thought that Dr. Ganske was a nice man, but that it was time to give the seat to a woman.
"I'd like to see more women in Congress," Ms. Rivers said. "But I think it will be a very, very close race. I think either one of them could do the job just as well."
Ms. McBurney intends to prove that she can do it better. But first she had to hurry over to the celebrity cow-milking contest. As she weaved and waved her way through the crowd, it was clear why the race is so close. People repeatedly called out, "Hi, Connie!" as though she were an old friend.
"Ganske has the money," she said. "But I have the popular support."
At the milking contest, Ms. McBurney and her teammate placed fourth.
"I came in second in a goat-milking contest once," Ms. McBurney said. "But I'm not very good with cows. I don't know why. I think it's all in the wrist."
Still, she did better than the Dairy Princess. The cow knocked over her bucket, which is precisely what Ms. McBurney and Dr. Ganske are trying to do to each other's campaign.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Greg Ganske worked with other volunteers as he painted a house, sponsored by a variety of Des Moines agencies and businesses. (Bill Neibergall/Des Moines Register); Connie McBurney campaigned for Congress on the steps of the Iowa Capitol in Des Moines on Tuesday morning, addressing a youth group. (Steve Pope for The New York Times)
 
Charts/Graphs: "AT A GALNCE: Iowa's Fourth District"
More than half of the voters live in an around Des Moines, the state capital. Much less dependent on agriculture than the rest of the district, the city's economy has been growing steadily. Graph shows results for the 1992 Presidential election and the 1994 Congressional election for Iowa's Fourth District. Chart lists demographical statistics for Iowa's Fourth District. (Sources: Congressional Quarterley's Congressional Districts in the 1990's; The Almanac of American Politics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (99%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (99%); IOWA, USA (99%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS POLITICS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COUNTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); MEDICARE (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); RADIO ADVERTISING (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON; GANSKE, GREG (REPR); MCBURNEY, CONNIE NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



505 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Official Says Man Told Mob To 'Get a Jew'

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER 

 BODY:
Shouting "Let's go get a Jew" and "I'm going to get a Jew; who's with me?" Charles Price whipped a group of blacks in Crown Heights into a murderous frenzy five years ago, a prosecutor charged yesterday, also suggesting for the first time in court that Mr. Price directed the mob to kill a Hasidic scholar.
Speaking at a bail hearing, the prosecutor gave the most detailed account yet of the Government's case against Mr. Price, the new suspect in the 1991 violence that led to the death of Yankel Rosenbaum. Mr. Rosenbaum's death came on the first of four nights of racial violence in the streets of Brooklyn. 
 The prosecutor, Valerie Caproni, chief of the criminal division in the United States Attorney's office in Brooklyn, said a man, who investigators believe was Mr. Price, shouted, "There's one; let's go get him," in urging the crowd to attack Mr. Rosenbaum.
But the judge at the hearing expressed skepticism about Government attempts to link Mr. Price to the killing, questioning whether prosecutors had more specific evidence to support their assertions. The indictment charging Mr. Price with violating Mr. Rosenbaum's civil rights was unsealed just one week ago, days before the five-year statute of limitations on most Federal crimes runs out. Along with Lemrick Nelson Jr., he became the second person charged with a Federal crime in the case. Mr. Nelson, who was also accused of a civil rights violation in the inflicting of one of the stab wounds that killed Mr. Rosenbaum, was acquitted of murder charges in a state court in 1992.
For years, investigators had been searching for a central figure in the events that night who was identified by witnesses as a "bald black man" and who incited the crowd to kill Mr. Rosenbaum. Prosecutors now say Mr. Price, 43, was that man. Said to have been sweating and "agitated" with his clothes stained with blood by night's end, Mr. Price was depicted by Ms. Caproni yesterday as the galvanizing figure in the attack on Mr. Rosenbaum.
"The crowd went from milling about, to violence," the prosecutor said, asserting that Mr. Price, with shouts and exhortations, was responsible for Mr. Rosenbaum's death. "It was Mr. Price who walked through the crowd, inciting and exhorting the crowd to violence," Ms. Caproni said. In addition, she said Mr. Price had been observed attacking another Hasidic man, not Mr. Rosenbaum, along with other crowd members.
Ms. Caproni argued yesterday that Mr. Price should not be released on bail. The judge, Federal Magistrate John L. Caden, ordered Mr. Price kept in jail, but agreed to hear a defense lawyer, Darrell L. Paster, again on the matter on Friday.
Mr. Price, tall and bald-headed, and, Mr. Paster said, still in pain from an old gunshot wound, walked stiffly into the courtroom yesterday. He scowled as Ms. Caproni described what the judge referred to as a "very substantial criminal record," including 10 misdemeanor convictions and a felony. The prosecutor said Mr. Price was chronically unemployed, "nomadic" and a heroin addict.
Despite what appeared to be a considerable accumulation of witness testimony placing Mr. Price near the center of events in 1991, there were hints yesterday that prosecutors may face some obstacles trying to prosecute Mr. Price. That would follow the pattern in this difficult case, which has already seen two acquittals -- one of a man described as bald and black -- and the abandonment of the prosecution against another thought to have stabbed Mr. Rosenbaum.
At one point yesterday, the magistrate, referring to Mr. Price, interjected, "I'm very, very unclear as to what specifically he did in terms of causing the death of Mr. Rosenbaum." Later, the magistrate said there were "very serious questions of fact" in the new case.
But Ms. Caproni contended flatly that "he incited the crowd specifically to go after a Jew." She described two categories of witnesses: one that remembered Mr. Price as the man making the inflammatory statements to go after Jews, and a second that recalled a "bald black man" as making the statements.
The witnesses who knew Mr. Price identified him as "the bald black man" in a videotape made shortly after the traffic accident that touched off the violence.
Three witnesses who have known Mr. Price for 10 years identified him as the man inciting the crowd, Ms. Caproni said.
Several of the witnesses, she said, identified the bald black man as the one who kept the crowd stirred up near the scene of the accident, saying, "No, not that way, we're going to a Jewish neighborhood."
Legal experts have said that the more closely prosecutors can connect Mr. Price's words to the actual stabbing, the easier it will be for them to obtain a conviction. Here, the Government may run into some difficulty, at least based on what was revealed in court yesterday.
The witness who heard the statement, "There's one; let's go get him" -- words referring specifically to Mr. Rosenbaum -- falls into the second category, those who identified the speaker but not by name. Still, Ms. Caproni took pains to say that "all the witnesses, collectively" identified the inciter as bald and black.
Magistrate Caden, perhaps questioning the weight of the Government's evidence, asked, "Who exactly caused the death of Yankel Rosenbaum?"
To which, Ms. Caproni replied that it was "not necessary for the Government to put a knife in Mr. Price's hand."
"It doesn't have to be a specific intent to kill," she said.
The magistrate then asked: "This defendant precipitated harm to a Jewish person, and someone under his direction did so?"
The prosecutor replied in the affirmative.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LET'S GO PUBLICATIONS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; CROWN HEIGHTS (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; BLACKS; JEWS JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MAGISTRATES (89%); RELIGION (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); MURDER (77%); BAIL (77%); INDICTMENTS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); RACE & RACISM (72%); ACQUITTAL (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); 

PERSON: NOSSITER, ADAM; CAPRONI, VALERIE; PRICE, CHARLES; ROSENBAUM, YANKEL; CADEN, JOHN L (MAGISTRATE) CHARLES H PRICE II (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



506 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Child Rapist Stuns Belgium: What Punishment?

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS 

DATELINE: PARIS, Aug. 21

 BODY:
It is a horror story told many times in many places. A convicted child kidnapper and rapist serves time in prison. He is let off early for good behavior. The pedophile, unable or unwilling to control his demons, strikes again.
Marc Dutroux, 39, an unemployed electrician in Belgium who was previously convicted of abusing children, has followed the pattern to the letter, and now he is back in police custody after having confessed to another series of crimes. 
 He was charged on Friday after the police descended on a house in Charleroi, one of several he owns. Locked in a hidden dungeon were two pallid girls, aged 12 and 14, who the police said had been sexually abused.
Then he led the police to the secret backyard graves of two 8-year-old girls who he said had starved to death while in his home, but not under his care.
After pornographic films and photographs were found in another house he owns, the police said he confessed to a third crime, his role in the kidnapping of two teen-age friends, who were 17 and 19 at the time. They are still missing, exactly a year later, but the authorities say it is possible that they are alive.
As the story unfolded in ever more gruesome detail this week, the case has commanded front-page attention across Europe, where it has revived the debate over how to punish or control known offenders, and what degree of freedom they should have after serving sentences.
In Belgium, where the faces of the victims are familiar from the ubiquitous "missing" posters, people have begun circulating petitions about measures for dealing with sex offenders and calling for restoring the death penalty.
And in the United States the issue of whether to notify a community that a sex offender released from prison is living in the area has been the subject of legislation.
The fate of the six girls has engendered a sense of national mourning in Belgium, with television images from across the country today showing cars driving around with black ribbons and demonstrators carrying signs saying, "To death."
In Sars-la-Buissiere, a small village near Charleroi, in the south of the country, the home of the two dead girls and the site of one of Mr. Dutroux's houses, thousands have already filed past the girls' white coffins. Their bodies were exhumed from their clandestine grave but are to be formally buried on Thursday.
In the grave in the Dutroux backyard, the police also found the body of Bernard Weinstein, an associate of Mr. Dutroux. He told the police that he killed Mr. Weinstein in a rage because he had given him money to feed the two 8-year-olds while he served a brief jail sentence. He blamed Mr. Weinstein for their deaths.
The parents of the dead girls are also demanding access to police files and explanations of how the police could overlook important leads, like the fact that Mr. Dutroux, his wife and three children were apparently living on unemployment checks, yet he owned at least six houses and as many cars. The police now suspect that Mr. Dutroux may have profited from selling both children and child pornography.
Some human rights groups argue that the industry of sexually exploiting children is expanding, made easier through videos, computer links and cheap travel to countries where poor children can be bought with relative impunity.
Several European countries, including France and Germany, have hardened their sentences for child abusers in recent years, while some, including the Netherlands, insist on supervision and counseling after a convict's release and in some cases resort to chemical "castration," administering hormones to inhibit the abuser's libido.
In Belgium, however, laws are more lenient. Mr. Dutroux was sentenced in 1989 to 13 years in prison on multiple counts of rape and child abuse. But he was released after three years for good behavior, even though his own mother warned of the risks of recidivism.
Belgians are also venting their anger against what they see as police bungling. Belgian newspapers today published leaked police documents showing that the police had been receiving tip-offs from an informer since 1993, warning that Mr. Dutroux was "building cells" to hold kidnapped children.
The police this year made two visits to the house where the two girls were held captive and said they believed Mr. Dutroux when he said the voices they heard were those of his own children, the documents said.
Three other adults, including Mr. Dutroux's second wife, Michelle Martin, have been arrested as accomplices in the abduction and illegal imprisonment of children.
The police are now hunting for the two teen-agers, whom Mr. Dutroux said he and an associate kidnapped in Ostend, a coastal resort. Belgium's Attorney General said today that there was reason to believe that they might be alive and in the hands of a prostitution ring elsewhere in Europe.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A poster in both Flemish and French appeals for information about two Belgian teen-agers who disappeared exactly a year ago. A man accused in a growing Belgian sex scandal told the police he abducted the girls. (Reuters); A banner urging "Death to Child Rapists" hung from a bridge over the Liege-Brussels highway alongside the portraits of two young girls who were abducted. Their bodies were found buried in the garden of a Belgian man, freed on parole for rape, who has been arrested in the child sex case. (Agence France-Presse); Marc Dutroux, freed from prison, was charged in a child sex case. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: BELGIUM (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (59%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGIUM; BELGIUM (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (59%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; SENTENCES (CRIMINAL) SEX OFFENSES (91%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (91%); PRISONS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SENTENCING (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); CHILD ABUSE (78%); PORNOGRAPHY (77%); STARVATION (76%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); PETITIONS (64%); 

PERSON: SIMONS, MARLISE; DUTROUX, MARC MARC DUTROUX (93%); BERNARD WEINSTEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



507 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
Dole's Capital-Gains Tax Plan Aims to Woo the Middle Class

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21

 BODY:
As the self-proclaimed candidate of a financially squeezed middle class, Bob Dole is proposing a drastic cut in a tax that he says hits hard at the very core of the American work force -- the small, growing businesses that create most of the nation's new jobs.
That, at least, is how Mr. Dole describes his proposal. Many Democrats call it a sop to the wealthy. And if history is any gauge, the debate over its merits will probably surface in the two parties' battle this fall for the hearts of middle-class voters. 
 The tax Mr. Dole seeks to cut most deeply is the tax on capital gains, the profits that investors realize when they sell stocks, bonds, real estate and most other staples of American finance. Since 1986, when a Democratic Congress raised it over President Reagan's objections, the rate has stood at a maximum of 28 percent.
Mr. Dole wants to cut income-tax rates by 15 percent. But he wants to cut the capital gains tax in half, or by even more for people of more modest means. Starting in 2001, he also would tie it to the inflation rate, meaning that the tax would apply only to profits that did not stem from inflation.
Wall Street, small-business groups and real estate executives in particular have pressed passionately, and for years, for a rate cut. Republicans need little prodding; the provision is a party axiom and has been for decades. President Bush made a capital-gains cut a centerpiece of his domestic agenda. A provision similar to Mr. Dole's was at the heart of the Republican Congress's Contract With America.
Republicans argue that a capital-gains cut would pump up the economy, unleashing a burst of entrepreneurial energy by businesses willing to take greater risks for the prospect of a greater payoff should they succeed. Mr. Dole feels so strongly about it that he briefly threatened in 1994 to hold up approval of a global trade agreement unless Congress and the White House tacked the provision onto it.
The Clinton White House, perhaps noting the ballooning number of average Americans with a toe in the stock market, has been mostly mum on the subject. But traditional Democrats say the provision is nothing more than trickle-down economics, in which the vast bulk of benefits flow to the wealthy who own and sell the vast bulk of assets subject to the tax.
They agree only on this much: the cut that Mr. Dole proposes would initially make the Government a lot of money, as investors sell off long-held assets to take advantage of the new, lower tax rate. After that, it would be a consistent money-loser.
Under existing law, taxes on capital gains are capped at 28 percent. The tax rate on ordinary income ranges from 15 percent for low-income households to almost 40 percent for the wealthiest.
There are some loopholes. The biggest involves homeowners, who generally pay the tax on home sales only if they fail to buy another house within two years, or if they still have profits after buying a new home. Even then, many taxpayers can exclude the first $125,000 in profit from taxation.
Mr. Dole would immediately cut the maximum tax rate on capital gains from 28 to 14 percent and the minimum tax from 15 to 7.5 percent. And he would increase the $125,000 exclusion for homeowners to a minimum of $250,000, rising to $500,000 for taxpayers who have lived in their homes for 20 years or more.
The tax rate would be indexed to inflation beginning in 2001 for assets that have been held for more than three years.
Mr. Dole's advisers estimate that those provisions would cost the Government $13 billion in forgone revenues from 1997 to 2002, a relative pittance in a campaign that proposes to cut $535 billion in other taxes.
Republicans on the House Ways and Means Committee are more specific. They predicted this month that the changes would increase capital-gains tax revenues by a total of $3 billion in the 1997 and 1998 fiscal years, as the tax income from the increased sale of assets overwhelmed the losses from rate cuts.
From 1999 forward, the provisions would lose money -- $17.2 billion over four years, the panel estimated.
Moreover, the $3 billion gain in the first two years is an illusion because it represents the early sale of assets that eventually would have been sold off anyway. In effect, the Government takes an early tax profit at the expense of revenues that it would have picked up later.
That most of those billions would go to the well-heeled is indisputable. A 1994 report by the Senate Budget Committee estimated that 55 percent of capital-gains taxes are paid by people with incomes exceeding $200,000 a year, or roughly 1 percent of households. The share rises to 75 percent if households with earnings over $100,000 are included.
But the root of the debate over a capital-gains tax cut is not over who would get the money but what they would do with it.
Critics argue that the money would mostly go into the pockets of the wealthy, perhaps to be passed on as a lightly taxed inheritance, but not to any good economic purpose. "It mainly goes to rich people," said Robert S. McIntyre, the director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a labor-supported advocacy group in Washington. "It's serendipity, maybe, but they're the ones who are making the case that a cut will help the economy."
Republicans take the opposite view. Indeed, many of them argue that any tax losses from a rate cut would be made up elsewhere in the economy, as businesses use their savings to invest in new equipment, increase productivity and generate new, taxable profits.
In an October 1995 monograph on the capital-gains proposal in the Contract With America, the Cato Institute, a Washington research group with strong free-market leanings, argued that the proposal would "unlock" hundreds of billions of dollars that have been sunk into stocks, property and other assets that investors have held onto, not wanting to pay a high tax on their profits. That money then could be used for more productive purposes.
Mr. Dole makes many of the same arguments in describing the rate reduction as a tonic for the middle class.
"The capital gains tax hits smaller and growing businesses hardest, and they're the ones who will create most of the new jobs in the decade ahead," he said in a Chicago speech earlier this month. "I want those businesses to use their growing value to give people better jobs, better opportunities and better incomes, not just to pay more taxes."
In the end, the argument may be impossible to settle. The multi-trillion-dollar economy is such a hulking creature, moved by so many currents, that economists have not definitively sorted out the true impact of a tax cut.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (92%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); INCOME TAX (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); BONDS (74%); APPROVALS (71%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; DOLE, BOB RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



508 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Japan's New Latin Look

 BODY:
Japanese leaders do not often visit Latin America, a region historically more attuned to the United States. But Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto is now on a 10-day trip to Mexico, Peru, Chile, Brazil and Costa Rica.
The prospect of heightened Japanese competition may not delight American businesses operating in these countries. But those companies should recognize that it is healthy for Latin America to broaden its international economic partnerships. Welcoming Japanese involvement in this region also sets a good precedent for insisting that Japanese companies not try to lock American businesses out of Japan's booming East Asian neighborhood. 
 For the past decade or so, Japan has been modestly increasing its exports, direct investment and development aid to Latin America. Meanwhile other economic powers, notably the United States, have moved in faster as the region's main countries have liberalized their economies. Japan accounts for a smaller share of Latin America's trade and investment today than it did in the 1980's.
Prime Minister Hashimoto's trip is meant to change this, using generous offers of government loans and grants to spur new trade and investment. Japanese producers would like to sell more of their wares to the expanding middle classes of fast-growing countries like Peru and Chile and the huge potential markets of Brazil and Mexico. The region also appeals to Japanese manufacturers, including auto makers, as a source of relatively cheap labor.
Japanese companies are especially eager to establish manufacturing plants in Mexico to avail themselves of the benefits of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Latin America also has abundant supplies of oil, minerals and timber that are attractive to resource-poor Japan.
Several of the countries Mr. Hashimoto is visiting have significant Japanese immigrant populations, notably Brazil, which has 1.3 million citizens of Japanese descent, and Peru, whose President, Alberto Fujimori, is the child of Japanese immigrants. Prime Minister Hashimoto also hopes to line up support throughout the region for Japan's effort to win a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council.
Until recently, most of the countries Mr. Hashimoto is visiting followed protectionist policies intended to favor local businesses and keep United States-based corporations at a distance. Those policies mainly resulted in stagnation, poverty and underdevelopment. Now economic liberalization has begun to revitalize the region. But it has also revived historical fears of American economic domination, a particularly appealing theme to those who have so far failed to benefit from economic change.
Japan's new interest in Latin America could provide a symbolic and practical answer to these anxieties, accelerating economic growth as businesses from all parts of the developed world compete more vigorously for the services of the region's workers and the buying power of its consumers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); PERU (94%); BRAZIL (94%); MEXICO (94%); CHILE (93%); COSTA RICA (92%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: JAPANESE COS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); PERU (94%); BRAZIL (94%); MEXICO (94%); CHILE (93%); COSTA RICA (92%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (73%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%); AUTOMAKERS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (PRIME MIN) RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



509 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
New Jersey Script for Dole's Tax Cut

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
The Republican challenger, far behind in the polls, promised to slash taxes and reinvigorate the economy, then stormed back to defeat an incumbent Democrat who had raised taxes.
That was how it worked for Christine Todd Whitman in defeating Jim Florio nearly three years ago to become Governor of New Jersey, and it is the script that Bob Dole is trying to impose on this year's Presidential campaign. 
 Both Mr. Dole and Mrs. Whitman are sure to emphasize the parallels when the Republican Presidential nominee campaigns in New Jersey today to showcase his tax-cutting plan and argue that it will generate more jobs and income for hard-pressed families.
"The people of New Jersey responded favorably to my tax cut and spending reduction proposals, and I am confident that the American people will respond in a similar fashion to the Dole proposal," Mrs. Whitman told reporters at the Republican convention in San Diego last week.
But if New Jersey has become a template for Republican strategy, the state has so far yielded a mixed record as a laboratory for the tax-cutting, deregulatory policies that Mrs. Whitman ran on and that are now being offered as a national economic prescription by Mr. Dole.
Mrs. Whitman made good on her pledge to cut personal income taxes by 30 percent, reduce environmental regulation of business and begin limiting lawsuits against companies, and since January 1994, when she took office, her policies have given New Jersey a modest boost relative to New York, Pennsylvania and other nearby states, economists said.
"It takes time to put these kinds of changes in place," said New Jersey's Commerce Commissioner, Gil Medina. "We're already seeing the effects in terms of pretty dramatic job growth. The best is yet to come."
But New Jersey remains an economic laggard compared with the nation as a whole, and it is still in shock from a wave of corporate layoffs that struck many of its biggest employers, including AT&T. And analysts said there is little prospect that the Governor's policies can reverse long-term national trends that have hurt New Jersey, including a decline in manufacturing and a migration of jobs toward lower-cost areas of the nation, and the world.
"New Jersey is still going to be a below-average economy," said Mark Zandi, an economist at Regional Financial Associates, a consulting firm that tracks state economies. "That's not to say that what Governor Whitman has done has not resulted in some benefit to the business community and economic development. But while New Jersey may be a low-cost state in a high-cost region, the state is in no way competitive, even after tax cutting, with the South or parts of the West."
Moreover, in paying for tax cuts in part through changes to the state's pension system and capping aid to municipalities, the Governor has drawn criticism for potentially pushing more financial burden onto future generations and local governments. And her effort to lift some of the regulatory burden from businesses has drawn fire for weakening the state's commitment to cleaning up its air and water.
"The income tax cuts did not work politically and they did not work economically," said State Senator Bernard Kenny, a Hoboken Democrat who has been a leading critic of Mrs. Whitman's policies. "We're lagging behind the nation, and that wasn't supposed to happen."
Mrs. Whitman's approach has been strongly supported by the business community, and many business owners and executives say the economic environment is slowly improving in ways that should help speed job creation.
At Atlantic Industrial Hardware, a construction-supply company in Atlantic City, the owner, Carole Iannelli, said sales this year could reach $2 million, up from $1.2 million last year, and that she is thinking about an expansion plan that would involve adding more employees to her current work force of eight.
Much of the gain, she said, has come from a general economic rebound in the state, and specifically from a construction boom in Atlantic City. But she said Mrs. Whitman's economic approach is playing an important role. Her employees, she said, have noticed the added take-home pay resulting from the income tax cuts.
"I have single parents here, and they're very aware of every penny in their paychecks," she said.
The effort to reduce and streamline regulations on building and manufacturing activities has meant more construction projects and faster approval times, Ms. Iannelli said, generating more business for her company. And by making a commitment to solve problems faced by small business, the Governor has helped create more optimism among entrepreneurs, she said.
"When you feel that somebody at the top has thought about you and put policies in place to help, it makes you more willing to take a risk," Ms. Iannelli continued. "There's an energy now, a feeling that there's a larger pie to split up. We have a shot at doing more than surviving."
The best gauge of economic activity in states is job creation. While the rate of employment growth in the nation as a whole has been running at slightly more than 2 percent annually in recent months, job creation in New Jersey has been hovering at about 1 percent.
But job growth in New Jersey is still stronger than in its most direct competitors, New York, Pennsylvania and Connecticut. In June, for example, employment in New Jersey was nearly 1.2 percent higher than in June 1995, while the comparable figure for New York and Connecticut was nine-tenths of 1 percent, and for Pennsylvania six-tenths of 1 percent.
An analysis in May by Salomon Brothers, the investment firm, found that New Jersey ranked 38th among the states over the previous 12 months in job creation, with Connecticut ranking 42d, New York 44th and Pennsylvania 48th.
It is unclear how much of New Jersey's advantage relative to its neighbors derives from Mrs. Whitman's policies and how much from the fact that the state was hit harder than the others by the last recession, and then rebounded more sharply.
Indeed, the most recent peak in job growth in New Jersey came in 1994, when the number of jobs increased 2.2 percent as the economy continued a long climb out of the recession.
Mrs. Whitman's defenders and business leaders in New Jersey said her policies were having a profound effect on the state's economic environment, but that the benefits would take time to appear.
They said that by accelerating a process begun under Mr. Florio of reducing New Jersey's regulatory requirements on businesses -- widely seen as among the nation's costliest and most restrictive -- she was making New Jersey a far more attractive place for companies to locate and expand.
And they said the combination of income- and business-tax reductions was freeing more money for private investment without forcing wholesale cuts in state spending.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL ASSOCIATES (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); TRENDS (69%); INCOME TAX (69%); DEREGULATION (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (52%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; DOLE, BOB; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



510 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 22, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Signs Bill to Give Portability In Insurance

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 21

 BODY:
In a South Lawn ceremony filled with both celebration and the ghosts of unmet goals, President Clinton signed a bill today to expand access to health insurance. And though the bill falls far short of his hope of insuring all Americans, he called it "a long step toward the kind of health care reform our nation needs."
Mr. Clinton used the occasion to declare a partial vindication for his and Hillary Rodham Clinton's own failed efforts to overhaul the health insurance system, saying the bill shows what can happen "when we cross party lines and put the interests of the American people first." 
 Mrs. Clinton, who retreated to the background after the effort she led turned into the Administration's biggest policy debacle, had a front-row seat for the signing ceremony, but not a seat on the platform with the President.
Asking the guests to "forgive me a personal note," Mr. Clinton looked toward his wife and said: "I believe, Hillary, that this justifies all those days on the road and all those nights you stayed up reading the incomprehensibly complex issues of health care. Thank you."
The audience responded with a standing ovation as Mrs. Clinton nodded silent thanks in reply. It was the first time in many months that "health care" had been uttered at the White House with such happiness. Left unsaid today were the Administration's dire warnings of two years ago that such incremental changes in the system could do more harm than good, and Mr. Clinton's repeated threats to veto any bill that did not provide health insurance for all Americans.
But Mr. Clinton's Republican opponent, Bob Dole, issued a statement harking back to those days, saying the new law "should end once and for all the Clinton prescription of big Government health care."
Mr. Dole added, "The American people should ask why it took President Clinton more than three years to support these common sense reforms which he previously threatened to veto."
The new law, which passed the Senate unanimously and drew only two dissenting votes in the House, allows workers to maintain health insurance coverage if they change or lose their jobs.
It effectively bars insurance companies from denying coverage to people who have pre-existing medical conditions.
The legislation was co-sponsored by Senators Nancy Landon Kassebaum, Republican of Kansas, and Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and both today praised Mr. Clinton for helping jump start support for the bill by pressing for its passage in his State of the Union address in January.
Mr. Kennedy said, "Every valuable part of this legislation -- from insurance reform, to help with long-term care, to assistance for the self-employed -- was originally conceived and contained in the broad-based health reform proposal that you submitted to Congress in 1993."
Today's ceremony was part of a trio of bill-signings this week -- including an increase in the minimum wage on Tuesday and welfare overhaul on Thursday -- intended to showcase both the powers of incumbency and Mr. Clinton's ability to get things done, all on the eve of the Democratic Convention next week.
But health care holds a bittersweet place in the politics of the Administration. Top advisers to the President have long acknowledged that the failure of his original bill in 1994 came to be seen as the failure of his overall domestic policy on the eve of the midterm elections, in which Republicans won control of Congress.
Today's flag-draped ceremony was the culmination of a months-long effort to redress that perception. Among those in the audience was Ira Magaziner, who was seated in the second row, and who was the main architect of the failed effort.
Besides assuring expanded access to insurance, the new law makes it easier for self-employed workers to afford their own insurance, by increasing the share of its cost they can deduct from their income taxes to 80 percent, from 30.
It toughens penalties for Medicare and Medicaid fraud, reduces paperwork and offers tax breaks for long-term care.
"It seals the cracks that swallow as many as 25 million Americans who can't get insurance or fear they will lose it," Mr. Clinton said of the bill, most of which takes effect next July. "Now, they will be protected."
But Mr. Clinton made it clear he believed that much work remained to be done, including expanding coverage for the unemployed and treating mental health coverage the same way physical ailments are treated, a provision that was dropped from the final bill.
While the legislation requires companies to offer the same access to coverage to people with pre-existing conditions that they offer to the general public, it does not set price limits on individual policies or guarantee that premiums will be affordable.
Perhaps the most contentious provision of the law also allows people who work in small businesses or who are self-employed to buy a high deductible health insurance policy for catastrophic illness and set aside other money, pre-tax, in a "medical savings account" for routine or long-term care.
Mr. Clinton and many Democrats opposed such a provision on the ground that the accounts would be most attractive to healthy, well-off people, leaving the traditional insurance pool to the sick and poor. In a compromise, the law allows 750,000 such accounts to be established in a nationwide pilot program.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The National Alliance for the Mentally Ill protested outside the White House against a health care bill that does not give them equal coverage. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ALLIANCE FOR THE MENTALLY ILL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ALLIANCE FOR THE MENTALLY ILL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INSURANCE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); LAYOFFS (60%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); KASSEBAUM, NANCY LANDON (SEN) BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TED KENNEDY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996



511 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Ellsworth Raymond Dies at 84; Kremlin Watcher of Stalin Era

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Ellsworth Lester Raymond, a Soviet-era Kremlinologist who served at the United States Embassy in Moscow during World War II and taught for 29 years at New York University, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 84 and lived in Greenwich Village.
The cause was a pulmonary embolism, his family said. 
 Mr. Raymond served as a research analyst, political and economic adviser as well as chief translator in the embassy from 1938 to 1943. The experience left him highly critical of the Stalin Government.
Born in Fort Ann, N.Y., he received his Ph.D. from the University of Michigan. He entered the Foreign Service and was sent to Moscow in 1938. After the German invasion in 1941 he was one of the embassy staff who accompanied the American Ambassador at the time, Adm. William H. Standley, to the provincial town of Kuybyshev once the Soviet capital came under siege.
While in the provinces, he met and married a Russian ballet dancer, Anna Palasova. Over Soviet objections, he took her and their infant son back to the United States on a Navy vessel through submarine-infested waters in 1943.
He then went to work as a civilian for the Army, heading the Soviet economic section in military intelligence at the Army General Staff in Washington. But he was given to understand by his superiors that marrying a Soviet citizen had not been a wise career move; so he quit Goverment service and turned to academic life.
Mr. Raymond joined the faculty of the department of politics at N.Y.U. in 1949 and eventually became a full professor and head of the Russian area studies. He retired in 1978, having been chosen for three years in a row as one of the "Golden Dozen," an accolade bestowed by graduating seniors upon favorite teachers.
He wrote "The Soviet State" (N.Y.U. Press; 2d ed., 1977), edited scholarly books and contributed articles to various publications and sections on Soviet affairs in the Americana and Colliers enyclopedias.
Dr. Raymond's wife died in 1994 after 52 years of marriage. He is survived by a son, Alan G., of Manhattan; a daughter, Cathy Ann Raymond of Topanga, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); ARMIES (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); NAVIES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); BALLET (53%); 

PERSON: ELLSWORTH LESTER RAYMOND (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



512 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Biggest Rally in 3 Weeks Lifts Dow 43.65

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The stock market staged its biggest rally in three weeks as an unexpectedly large cut in German interest rates promised faster economic growth in Europe and a jump in orders for American exporters.
Shares of the General Electric Company, the Hewlett-Packard Company, Caterpillar Inc. and Intel Corporation led the advance, as investors speculated that those companies would benefit from enhanced growth abroad. 
 "We're living in a global economy, so if you get a revival somewhere else it helps us," said Mark Stumpp, chief investment officer at PDI Strategies in Short Hills, N.J., which manages assets of $22 billion. "Look at the U.S. economy. Roughly 20 percent of G.D.P. is related in some way to exports, and a fair chunk of that obviously is related to Europe." Mr. Stumpp's reference was to the gross domestic product.
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 43.65, to 5,733.47, its highest since May 24, when it closed at 5,762.86. The average is less than 45 points from its all-time high.
The Philip Morris Companies was one of only three Dow stocks that fell, as concern spread that the pace of litigation against cigarette makers would pick up. The Standard & Poor's 500 index jumped 5.61, or 0.84 percent, to 670.68, bolstered mostly by oil, beverage and regional bank stocks. As with the Dow, yesterday's jump was the biggest in the index since Aug. 2. Hewlett-Packard rose 1 1/8, to 43, Wells Fargo added 1 1/2, to 255 1/2, and Cabletron Systems rose 2 3/4, to 62 1/2.
The Nasdaq composite index extended Wednesday's late rally, rising 17.15, to 1,143.96, as Intel, Amgen, Cisco Systems Inc. and Microsoft all advanced. The index is up 1.7 percent in the last two days.
Oil stocks soared as the price of Texas crude oil surged 58 cents, to $22.30 a barrel. Mobil gained 2 3/8, to 115 1/4; Texaco climbed 1 1/8, to 91 1/8, and Exxon rose 3/4, to 83 5/8.
About 1,482 stocks advanced and 865 issues fell on the New York Stock Exchange, where some 354.5 million shares traded, below the three-month daily average of 382 million shares for an 11th consecutive day.
Germany lowered its target money rate to 3 percent from 3.3 percent. The move will help stimulate European economies and demand for United States goods, analysts said. France, the Netherlands, Belgium and Austria lowered their own interest rates after Germany's move. China and the Bank of Canada also cut key lending rates yesterday.
General Electric rose 5/8, to 84 5/8, Caterpillar climbed1/2, to 71 7/8, and Deere rose 3/4, to 40 3/4. Coca-Cola, which derives about 79 percent of its operating profit from outside the United States, climbed 1 1/8, to 52.
Tobacco issues fell further yesterday in anticipation of new regulations governing tobacco that are expected to be released by the White House today. Philip Morris fell 7/8, to 86 3/4, after falling 3 7/8 Wednesday; the Universal Corporation, a tobacco processor, fell 7/8, to 25 1/4, extending Wednesday's 3/4-point slide; Loews which makes Newport and Kent cigarettes, dropped 1 1/2, to 75 1/8.
"You've got all these lawsuits, and the F.D.A.," said John Maxwell, an analyst at Wheat, First, Butcher Singer, referring to the Food and Drug Administration. "It's just got people confused."
In addition, Kansas, Arizona and Michigan all sued the tobacco industry this week to recover the millions of dollars they spend treating smoking-related illnesses, joining 10 other states that have already sued. Another development unnerving investors is an individual smoker's liability suit in Indiana expected to go to jury deliberation today.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); GNE (PAR) (84%); GEC (LSE) (84%); GE (SWX) (84%); GE (NYSE) (84%); CTA (LSE) (84%); CATR (PAR) (84%); CAT (SWX) (84%); CAT (NYSE) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); MO (NYSE) (82%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (65%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (82%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (65%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (78%); NETHERLANDS (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) INTEL CORP (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (84%); CATERPILLAR INC (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (82%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (65%); AMGEN INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (78%); NETHERLANDS (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); TOBACCO MFG (66%); LITIGATION (51%); 

PERSON: MARK STUMPP (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



513 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Rewarding Indonesian Repression

 BODY:
President Clinton should heed those in his Administration who counsel against the planned sale of F-16 fighter jets at bargain prices to Indonesia. Financial terms for the sale were recently completed and the Administration need only notify Congress now before going ahead with the transfer.
This is no time to be selling high-performance warplanes to Indonesia. President Suharto has jailed hundreds of political opponents this summer in a new wave of repression. Delaying the sale a few months, one option under consideration in Washington, will not help. Selling fighter jets to Indonesia before Mr. Suharto institutes serious political reforms would seem a blanket American endorsement of an autocratic and corrupt Government. It would throw away one of Washington's few clear opportunities to press Indonesia's leaders for democratic change. 
 Indonesia's vibrant economic growth has not yet been accompanied by democratic reforms. The 75-year-old Mr. Suharto has indicated he hopes to pass the presidency to a relative. The press is controlled and political activity is tightly limited by the military.
The recent crackdown began after the Government ousted Megawati Sukarnoputri from the leadership of the authorized opposition party. Ms. Megawati is the daughter of the country's founding President, Sukarno, whom Mr. Suharto overthrew in a 1965 military coup that led to massacres of hundreds of thousands of supposed Communists.
Ms. Megawati has never criticized Mr. Suharto, but has called for democratic reforms. When the Government replaced her with its backers, her followers occupied party headquarters in Jakarta, the capital. On July 27, army-backed vigilantes and police entered the headquarters and threw them out. Riots began that killed four people, injured dozens and destroyed at least 20 buildings.
In words that echo 1965, Government officials have blamed the riots on Communists. Student activists have been arrested and are held incommunicado and without access to lawyers. The 27-year-old leader of an unauthorized leftist party and the head of the country's only independent labor union are charged with subversion, a capital offense. The Government is intimidating Ms. Megawati by summoning her and her family members for questioning. The Minister of Home Affairs announced that all non-governmental organizations must register with the police or be banned.
Washington has been looking for a buyer for 28 F-16's originally sold to Pakistan. They were never delivered, because of Congressional concerns about Pakistan's secret nuclear weapons program. When President Clinton agreed last year to repay Pakistan, the planes, which lack the most advanced electronics, went back on the market. Indonesia offered to buy nine of them at $8 million apiece.
Though the Clinton Administration has sometimes scolded Indonesia for human rights abuses, it has been so intent on expanding economic ties that Mr. Suharto has felt little pressure to change his autocratic ways. This docile American policy seems even more misplaced after the summer's events. If there is to be an F-16 sale, it should be conditioned on a speedy end to the repression and the institution of democratic reforms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (78%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA; INDONESIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (78%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ARMS SALES ABROAD; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; INDONESIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); POLITICS (79%); ARMS TRADE (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); ARRESTS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); COUPS (76%); CORRUPTION (74%); ARMIES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); RIOTS (69%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ARMED FORCES (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (63%); CAPITAL CRIMES (62%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (62%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SUHARTO (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



514 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
It's Not a Real Bull Unless Investors Jump On

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The Dow Jones industrial average is within one good day of setting a record, having wiped out nearly all of the sharp fall in prices that took place in early July. But the stock market is not nearly as healthy as that would indicate.
While the entire market never rises or falls in unison, the current recovery is unusual for its narrowness. It is being led by big, presumably safe companies, with investors nervous about rushing back into the speculative stocks that were so popular earlier this year. 
 That pattern indicates that investors remain much more concerned about recession than about the prospect of higher interest rates. Bank stocks, which benefit from lower interest rates, are the stars. Consumer stocks -- companies that sell to consumers year in and year out -- have done much better than cyclical stocks, which are more dependent on a vibrant economy for good earnings.
In the narrowness of the rebound, this market differs markedly from the pattern that prevailed after the only two other significant downturns of the 1990's -- the 1990 plunge that coincided with the beginning of that year's recession and the 1994 slide that began when the Federal Reserve stunned Wall Street by raising interest rates. In both of those episodes, smaller stocks recovered at close to the same pace as blue chips.
Not this time. Through yesterday's close, the Dow had regained 89.7 percent of what it lost in the plunge, and it stands just eight-tenths of 1 percent from the peak of May. But the Nasdaq composite has regained only 49.1 percent of its loss, and is 8.4 percent below its June peak.
The market on which a stock trades is, of course, less important than the nature of its business or the size and influence of the company. In general, technology companies have made up only a fraction of what they lost. The Pacific Stock Exchange technology index is down 10.3 percent from its high, set in May, and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange index of semiconductor stocks is off 19.8 percent from its 1996 high and a stunning 42.6 percent from its peak, set nearly a year ago. But both Intel and Microsoft have set records this month, having more than recovered from their July dips.
One of the oldest technical indicators for the stock market is the Dow Theory, developed by Charles Dow, a founder of Dow Jones. It originally held that the economy could be deemed to be doing well only if the Dow industrials, which make the goods, were doing well along with the Dow transports, which move the goods. It was later turned into a market indicator, holding that a bull market was in place only if both indexes were moving upward.
The Dow industrials, as noted, look very good. In fact, absent the latest tobacco stock scare, that index could easily have already set a record. Had Philip Morris stayed where it was on Aug. 8, rather than dropping almost $19, the Dow industrials would have closed yesterday at 5,788.22, more than 10 points above the old high.
But the story of the transports is far different. That index has been damaged by weakness in the share prices of trucking and airline companies. The Dow transportation average, which fell almost 6 points yesterday even as most indexes rose, stands 9.8 percent below its peak and has regained only about one-third of the ground it lost in the drop.
But it is in onetime market favorites that the carnage is clearest. Many technology stocks have come down so far that their highs seem hard to believe. Iomega, a disk-drive maker, is down 72 percent from the high it set three months ago. The Chicago Board Options Exchange's index of casino stocks is off 26.4 percent from its June high.
To some extent, this represents a decline in the willingness of investors to take risks. There was a brief period in July when mutual fund investors took cash out of stock funds. That has ended, but conservative funds are now getting the bulk of the incoming cash, in sharp contrast to earlier in the year, when the riskiest funds drew in the most cash. So perhaps it should be no surprise that the kinds of stocks that conservative funds are most likely to buy are doing the best.
It is, of course, possible that the recovery will broaden. Indeed, the Nasdaq market has done better than the Dow has in the last two days. But until it happens, it will be too soon to announce that the bull market is alive and well, no matter how many records the Dow manages to set.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Mixed Recovery"
In the aftermath of July's short but steep plunge in stock prices, a Few indexes have hit new highs . . . shows yesterday's close, change from Jan.-July high and percent of correction drop recovered for S&P financials and Nasdaq financials . . . some are close . . . shows yesterday's close, change from Jan.-July high and percent of correction drop recovered for Dow Jones industrials and S&P 500 . . . But most are not . . . shows yesterday's close, change from Jan.-July high and percent of correction drop recovered for S&P mid cap 400, S&P small cap 600, Russell 2,000, Nasdaq composite, Amex market value and Dow Jones transports. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. D6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (59%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (59%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (59%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (59%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (52%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (59%); NYSE ARCA INC (53%); INTEL CORP (53%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (52%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (52%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD CHARLES DOW (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



515 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
Dole's Plan for Economy Could Be Hard to Fulfill

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22

 BODY:
Many voters say they doubt that Bob Dole can fulfill his pledge to cut taxes while still balancing the budget, but his economic plan makes another promise that could prove even more difficult to keep: to improve the nation's growth capacity to 3.5 percent a year from its current level of less than 2.5 percent.
No other Presidential candidate has ever put so specific a number on his aspirations for growth, never mind one that economists characterize as anything from highly ambitious to totally unrealistic. 
 The political calculus for Mr. Dole is clear. Publicly setting such a lofty goal allows him to portray himself as a can-do optimist intent on restoring the economy to its glory days, breaking a pattern of wage stagnation in the process, while suggesting that President Clinton has passively accepted the lower growth rates and attendant economic insecurity that have prevailed in recent years as the best the nation can do. (The Clinton Administration, of course, has a different story to tell, and is presenting itself as the guardian of steady growth, low unemployment, quiescent inflation and a reduced Federal budget deficit.)
Already, the theme that more growth is the best cure for the nation's social and economic ills, from urban poverty to the budget deficit, has become central to the Republican campaign strategy. In choosing Jack Kemp as his running mate, Mr. Dole selected his party's best-known advocate of the belief that freeing individuals and businesses from disincentives like higher taxes will lead to a boom in growth and increased prosperity for rich and poor alike.
"The President is content with the way things are," Mr. Dole said last week in accepting his party's nomination "I am not. We must commit ourselves to a far more ambitious path that puts growth-expanding opportunities, rising incomes and soaring prosperity at the heart of national policy."
But while everyone would agree that more growth is a good thing, the economic justification for Mr. Dole's target of 3.5 percent a year is less clear.
"The objective is noble," said Lyle E. Gramley, an economist and a former governor of the Federal Reserve Board. "How we get there is more difficult to see. Certainly a claim that we can increase the growth rate to 3.5 percent is not at all likely to come true in my lifetime, almost no matter what."
Most economists agree that the American economy cannot currently grow much faster than 2.5 percent a year over the long run without igniting inflation.
Mr. Dole's target is not just to increase growth for a quarter or two. Indeed, the economy grew 4.2 percent this spring, and it could well grow at a 3 percent rate or higher during the current quarter. In growing at those rates, however, the economy is like a factory that is running flat out, creating strains and bottlenecks that will eventually lead to inflation if output is not throttled back.
Mr. Dole's goal is instead to modernize and expand the factory, allowing it to run at higher rates of output without overheating. To do so, however, would require solving one of the knottiest economic policy dilemmas the United States has faced: how to improve the rate of growth in productivity, which is the measure of how much each worker produces per period of time worked.
Economists have boiled the nation's capacity for economic growth down to a simple equation: the sum of labor force growth and productivity growth. The labor force is growing at just over 1 percent a year, a figure that is unlikely to increase anytime soon given the slow growth of the overall population.
To raise the economy's capacity for sustainable, non-inflationary growth to 3.5 percent, therefore, would require nearly doubling the rate of productivity growth, to more than 2 percent, economists said. Productivity has been stagnant for two decades, through Republican and Democratic Administrations alike, defying not only policy prescriptions but also the efforts of economists to pin down its cause.
While many economists said Mr. Dole's proposals to push up productivity by stimulating more investment and improving the skill and education levels of the work force made sense, and were, at root, little different from the approach taken by the Clinton Administration, they said there was little evidence that those policies could have the profound effect on growth he is promising.
Mr. Dole's plan is based on the idea that slashing taxes, eliminating regulations on many industries, freeing businesses from the threat of frivolous lawsuits and huge jury awards and providing better education and training to workers will make the economy more productive.
His economic advisers said they could not quantify precisely how tax cuts or deregulation, for example, would improve productivity and the growth rate. But they defended the 3.5 percent goal as realistic, especially since the nation's growth rate since World War II has averaged 3.3 percent despite the lower numbers of recent years. (Mr. Dole's plan to balance the budget assumes more conservative growth numbers and does not depend on meeting the 3.5 percent goal.)
Cutting personal income taxes and capital gains taxes will free more capital for investment and increase the incentives for people to work more and take chances on starting new businesses, the advisers said. Rolling back regulations will save industry billions of dollars each year in compliance costs, freeing up even more money for investment.
Overhauling the system of civil lawsuits would remove from business a fear of being sued that distorts decisions on what types of products to develop, produce and sell. Introducing more competition into the educational system through programs like vouchers would improve educational quality and the skill level within the American work force, they said.
"If we address the accumulation of human and physical capital and increased productivity, I do believe we can significantly improve the growth rate," said Gary Becker, the Nobel Prize-winning economist from the University of Chicago who helped draft the Dole plan. "I don't think 3.5 percent is an unattainable goal. Maybe we'll do better, maybe we won't quite make it, but it's a goal we can strive for."
To work, Mr. Dole's plan would have to be enacted in a way that did not cause the financial markets and the Federal Reserve to push interest rates up, choking growth. For starters, the plan would have to avoid being seen as inflationary, which it would be if taxes were cut more than Federal spending. Perhaps more importantly, it would require convincing the Federal Reserve, a tough audience, that the economy had been so fundamentally improved by the Dole plan that a higher speed limit for economic growth was justified.
It is also unclear whether voters will accept Mr. Dole's premise that President Clinton is doing nothing to improve the growth rate.
Indeed, the Administration and its supporters argue that Mr. Clinton has pursued a vigorous pro-growth agenda, even if he has not explicitly labeled it as such. The Administration's early success, they said, is evident in the 10 million new jobs the economy has created since Mr. Clinton took office, the deep reduction in the deficit and the absence of inflation.
By bringing down the budget deficit to an estimated $117 billion this year from $290 billion in 1992, Administration officials said, they have freed capital for private investment, helping to push business investment in new equipment up 37 percent since the beginning of 1993.
By pushing for more and better education and training programs, they said, the Administration has improved the nation's "human capital." Productivity has also been enhanced through the Administration's support for policies like free trade, which promotes more competition, and Federal support for research and development.
"It's certainly fair to have a debate about growth," said Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich. "But you have to understand where the underpinnings of growth come from. We tried supply-side economics in the 1980's. It's been subjected to real live national experimentation, and it utterly failed."
Citing other Administration policies like raising the minimum wage and making health insurance and pension plans more portable, Mr. Reich said Mr. Clinton's team had made a good start both on improving growth and on addressing the insecurities of workers.
"No one has suggested we can turn around a 20-year trend in three and a half years," Mr. Reich said. "Waving a magic wand and calling for a tax cut that cannot be paid for is the last thing we need." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



516 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Local Votes In Brazil Are a Test For Leader

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: BRASILIA

 BODY:
Local races scheduled across the country in October, which will involve more than half a million candidates, are being considered a litmus test for the one issue that has come to absorb President Fernando Henrique Cardoso more than any other: his own re-election in 1998.
The Brazilian Constitution forbids consecutive terms for elected officials, assuring frequent opportunities for ambitious politicians. The President, who made known his interest in running for a second term late last year, has since then subordinated economic and political reforms to his electoral desires, experts here and abroad have said. 
 Mr. Cardoso remains highly popular domestically. His Real Plan -- named for the new Brazilian currency -- shrank the inflation rate from 900 percent to 12 percent in two years. He is seeking a Constitutional amendment to allow for re-election, which is expected to be the first order of business when Congress reconvenes after the final round of local elections takes place on Nov. 15.
But the local campaigns have revealed, too, the limits of President Cardoso's popularity, with Brazilians asking what comes after stabilization and foreign observers wondering when the President will make the serious structural changes, like cutting the public sector work force and reforming Social Security, to back up his tight monetary policy.
"The elections now, and the re-election bid, are really delaying the necessary steps, the tough choices," said Sebastian Edwards, a professor of economics at U.C.L.A. "The question is not whether the current policy stance is sustainable or not, because it's clearly not, the question is when are they going to start adjusting."
Mr. Cardoso and his supporters maintain that becoming eligible for a second term would give him the political weight to push his measures through Congress over the next two years, though outsiders worry that Mr. Cardoso's preoccupation with re-election is, at its most harmless, putting off unpopular measures.
"What makes us think that he will get a second term, and that he would move forward more forcefully if he does?" asked Rudiger Dornbush, an economist at M.I.T. who has criticized the Brazilian President for failing to capitalize on his early success in harnessing inflation. "I think you have in Brasilia a tendency to say if something's very difficult you find a way around it, and in the meantime, have good propaganda in New York so the money keeps coming."
The most important races in the country's eight largest cities are characterized not so much by support for the President's local favorites as by the strong showing of political unknowns who are backed by the current mayors.
"If you compare the support of people for low inflation and for the successful mayor, the mayor does better, because low inflation is considered something that's already been reached, while local conditions are seen as something that still need to be improved," said Walder de Goes, a political consultant here.
Because the mayors, too are forbidden to run for a second term, voter support for their hand-picked candidates is being seen as the closest approximation to re-election, bolstering the intellectual case for continuity, Mr. de Goes added. But they may also weaken the political case for presidential continuity.
The mayors' rising power is turning them into major power brokers in their own right. In Sao Paulo, especially, the current Mayor, Paulo Maluf, opposes the constitutional amendment and plans to run for President himself. Cesar Maia, the Mayor of Rio, has in recent days also emerged as a possible next president.
Under the pressure, Mr. Cardoso's early hesitation to enter the political fray has weakened. He recently unveiled a $54 billion program for public works , health and education projects, which will depend on some $10.3 billion in federal spending over the next two years. While the President insisted the projects were not an electioneering ploy -- indeed, they were largely repackaged from the array of projects prepared by federal planning agencies -- few could find any other reason for his decision to single them out as priorities.
Planning Minister Antonio Kandir said in an interview here that the projects signaled the second phase of the Real Plan -- preparing the infrastructure and educational systems for growth, relying largely on foreign investment.
A few days later, Mr. Cardoso extended the term for unemployment compensation, in an effort to improve the standing of his former Planning Minister, Jose Serra, who is trailing in the race for mayor in Sao Paulo, where the unemployment rate is nearing 16 percent.
"Right now, his popularity is personal," said Alexandre Barros, a political consultant to investors. "He's trying to transfer his popularity from himself to his party."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CONSTITUTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); INFLATION (74%); LABOR FORCE (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); SOCIAL SECURITY (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); MONETARY POLICY (51%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE FERNANDO HENRIQUE CARDOSO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



517 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: About Real Estate;
New Building May Be Last of Its Kind

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
The latest response to Manhattan's hearty rental market is the Strathmore, a slender 43-story apartment tower now nearing completion at 400 East 84th Street and First Avenue.
With 180 one- to three-bedroom apartments and penthouses, the building will open for leasing next month as the city's newest mixed-income rental. And because of more restrictive zoning laws passed in 1994, the $70 million project, developed by the Related Companies of Manhattan, may be the last hurrah for tall slender towers on an Upper East Side avenue. 
 Eighty percent of the apartments, averaging 725 to 2,000 square feet, will be rented at market rates, starting at $2,400 to $5,900 a month. Penthouses cost more. The remaining 20 percent will be made available to tenants whose annual income is $14,000 to $28,400, based on family size. Monthly rents for those apartments will be $426 to $590.
In return for the affordable apartment, the city or state issues tax- exempt bonds to provide permanent financing to builders of these so-called 80-20 projects. They are also eligible for a 20-year property tax abatement from the city. As a result, developer interest in the program has increased as has the competition, underscoring the reliance of new residential construction on public benefits.
The Strathmore received $60 million in bond financing from the New York State Housing Finance Agency.
"Even with rents as high as they are in Manhattan, rental construction still is not economically possible just with conventional financing or the abatement," said Stephen M. Ross, Related's president.
Without this program, rents would have to be 20 percent higher to secure conventional financing, said David J. Wine, president of Related's management arm, the Related Management Company. But funds are limited, keeping production modest.
In the last three years the state agency has issued bonds for 15 projects, including the Strathmore, totaling 2,402 units statewide. The city's Housing Development Corporation, which also issues bonds, has financed two to three projects a year since 1993 for a total of 1,685 apartments.
Under the program developers must also obtain a credit enhancement -- mortgage insurance from the Federal Housing Administration or a letter of credit from a bank or pension fund -- to protect the bondholders against risk in the event of a default. For the Strathmore, Related secured a letter of credit from Fleet Bank and the New York branch of Hypo Bank. The company financed $10 million internally, Mr. Wine said.
Related has built five mixed-income rentals in Manhattan. Beyond 400 East 84th Street, the company plans to close on its tax-exempt financing within 60 days for two others. One is a 240-unit project on land south of Union Square on the block bounded by Broadway, Fourth Avenue and 13th and 14th Streets; the other is a 263-unit building on 89th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Financing for a 512-unit development in Battery Park City is to close by the end of the year.
There are other challenges to development, including zoning, which was a factor at the Strathmore.
In early 1994 while it was under construction, new zoning laws were passed to prohibit such tall slender buildings in an area of the East Side roughly bounded by York and Third Avenues, 57th and 96th Streets. To build under the old rules, which gave a 20 percent bonus for providing a plaza, Related had to have finished excavation and much of the foundation before the new zoning took effect.
The question of whether the company did enough work in time led to a legal fight with the East 84th Street Neighborhood Association. In January 1995 the Appellate Division of the State's Supreme Court found in Related's favor.
The Strathmore, designed by Costas Kondylis of Manhattan, has a light brick facade with rounded bands of tinted glass on five corners. That gives each apartment a sort of enclosed terrace with a floor-to-ceiling glass panel.
Not everyone is pleased with the results. "The building is overpowering for any neighborhood but we have to live with it," said Robert Riggs, president of the East 84th Street Neighborhood Association. "The hope is that an attempt will be made to assimilate it into this neighborhood."
For brokers, it is a welcome addition to the market. "The functional vacancy rate on the Upper East Side is zero," said Nancy Packes, president of Feathered Nest, a large rental brokerage company. For the first half of 1996 rents on the Upper East and West Sides rose by nearly 6 percent for an annualized increase of almost 12 percent, she said, adding that most of the demand was for smaller apartments.
Mr. Wine said a two-bedroom apartment on the 28th floor with river views at the Strathmore would rent for $4,350, which is on par with comparable buildings in the area. Amenities include a concierge and health club, with a children's playroom and squash court. There will also be a 65-car garage. Occupancy will start in November, and the building is to be completed by year-end.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: ABOUT REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RELATED COMPANIES RELATED COS LP (84%); NEW YORK STATE HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: RELATED COMPANIES NEW YORK STATE HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (89%); BONDS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); BOND ISSUES (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); BANK BRANCHES (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (52%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



518 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Says City May Sue Car Insurers

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani attacked insurance companies yesterday, saying that automobile insurance rates for New Yorkers have not kept pace with falling rates of car thefts, which dropped 50 percent in the city from 1990 to 1995. Mr. Giuliani said the city was considering suing the insurers to obtain better rates for residents.
The Mayor said the Consumer Affairs Department would release a report next week showing that insurers had treated residents unfairly by not taking into account recent significant reductions in crime when setting rates. 
 After working on automobile insurance, Mr. Giuliani said, he will push for decreases in homeowners' insurance premiums, because home burglaries also have decreased, by about a third in recent years.
The attack is Mr. Giuliani's first attempt to turn gains in fighting crime into a pocketbook issue, which has particular resonance with residents of Queens and Staten Island, where the Mayor has always enjoyed heavy support. He is expected to run for re-election next year.
Automobile insurers and state insurance officials said that coverage for thefts represented a small segment of the insurance equation and that it would be unrealistic to expect rates to drop 50 percent just because the rates of thefts had declined by that factor. The insurers and officials also said the industry seldom reacted immediately to crime reductions or increases.
New Yorkers are required to buy no-fault insurance to cover physical injuries and lost wages and liability insurance to protect themselves against lawsuits. But residents are not required to obtain comprehensive coverage, which covers the cost of stolen or vandalized automobiles, as well as any collision damages. Many owners of older vehicles do not buy that insurance.
Insurance rates vary by location and by company. In Brooklyn, which has the highest insurance rates in the state, comprehensive coverage would generally double most insurance premiums. State records indicate that a 20-year-old male driver can expect to pay $1,877 a year for required coverage and $2,017 for comprehensive coverage. The rates would drop for a 35-year-old man, to $919 for the required coverage and $909 for comprehensive.
Mr. Giuliani said a possible suit "would deal with both future rates, as well as rebates for the unfair way in which the residents of New York City have been treated at least for two or three years." He said that the lower rate of car thefts in the city translated into considerably lower costs for insurance companies and that the companies should pass on those savings to consumers. "But rates have not gone down anywhere near like that," Mr. Giuliani said.
Sean Mooney, an economist with the Insurance Information Institute, said New York City's overall automobile insurance rates ranked near the top for big cities, but trailed far behind Los Angeles, which has the country's highest rates because its drivers are known for being litigious and it has a high rate of insurance fraud. Rates for the required segment of automobile insurance in New York City are generally comparable with other cities, partly because the costs for bodily injuries tend to be low, as New York City drivers can seldom drive fast, he said. But New York City's comprehensive insurance rates are extremely high, second to Philadelphia's, he added, because of theft and vandalism.
A high-ranking consumer-affairs official said the city's report would show that the number of reported car thefts dropped, to 71,543 last year from 146,925 in 1990, a decrease of more than 51 percent. The report, which Consumer Affairs Commissioner Jose Maldonado will release next week, would also indicate that insurers have seen profit margins from insurance premiums on physical damage to automobiles rise to 12 percent in 1994 from 8 percent in 1990. That makes that category one of the most profitable.
Alexander B. Grannis, Democrat of Manhattan and chairman of the Assembly Insurance Committee, said: "We ought to be demanding the State Insurance Department be at the forefront of investigating this, because they approve the rates for insurance companies. They are charged with protecting consumers, but they often times are more sympathetic to the insurers."
A spokesman for the State Insurance Department, John Calagna, said state and city officials had been working on the issue. "We support the concept that auto insurance rates should be as low as possible," he said. "And we have pledged to take a closer look at the rates."
Mr. Calagna stressed that the rates for comprehensive insurance, which includes problems like storm damage, had dropped 8 to 15 percent in the last three years. "You have to remember that auto theft is not the only category that is considered for comprehensive coverage," he said.
Mary A. Griffin, assistant vice president at the American Insurance Association, which represents 250 insurers in the state, agreed that changing trends did not result in immediate revisions by insurers. "Auto rates are based on a number of years of experience," she said. "So that a year, or even two, of a decrease in theft rates may not be borne out over the long haul."
The city records the highest number of car thefts in the state, and it has the highest insurance rates. Mr. Calagna said that eight or nine other states had higher rates than New York, but he did not compare rates between New York and other cities.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CONSUMER AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NYC) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; AUTOMOBILES; SUITS AND LITIGATION AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (95%); INSURANCE (93%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (91%); LITIGATION (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); VEHICLE THEFT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); BURGLARY (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); VANDALISM (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%); RANKINGS (50%); 

PERSON: TOY, VIVIAN S; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



519 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Rose 6,000 Last Week

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22

 BODY:
First-time claims for jobless benefits increased by 6,000 last week but remained well below the summer peak, in a range that analysts say suggests an improving labor market.
The Labor Department said today that new applications for unemployment insurance totaled a seasonally adjusted 327,000, up from 321,000 in the week that ended on Aug. 10. 
 The total was less than the 330,000 that many analysts had expected.
After sharply increasing to 370,000 in the week that ended on July 6, new jobless claims fell to 294,000 in three weeks as some manufacturers reopened factories from their customary summer shutdowns.
Some analysts, though, say that jobless claims in the lower-300,000 range reflect a tightening employment market.
The four-week moving average of new weekly jobless claims edged up by 1,500, to 314,000 last week. It was the first increase in five weeks. Many analysts prefer to track the less volatile four-week average because it smoothens out the highs and lows in weekly reports.

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (95%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



520 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Germans Cut a Major Rate; Other Europeans Follow

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Germany's central bank reduced a principal short-term interest rate more than expected yesterday, setting off rate cuts elsewhere in Europe and sending the dollar higher.
Analysts said the move would bolster economic recovery in Germany and, in turn, help the rest of Europe, which is showing signs of rebounding. But many of them also said that the German rate cut might be the last for some time. And it may be that the Bundesbank's move is more important to the prospects for a common European currency system at the turn of the century than for its immediate stimulative effects. 
 Though the German bank did not single out the exchange value of the mark in explaining the rate cut, a rise in the dollar against the mark and other European currencies appears to have been one of its goals.
This is because Germany and much of the rest of Europe depend heavily on exports to spur growth. But the recent strength of some European currencies has raised doubts about the sustainability of the rebound, because exports have become more expensive abroad. Just since mid-July, the mark has risen about 3 percent against the dollar.
Bundesbank officials had made their concern about the strength of the mark clear in recent comments that led many analysts to predict that a rate cut was in the offing. But the size of the cut -- a reduction of three-tenths of a percentage point in the 14-day securities-repurchase rate, to 3 percent from 3.3 percent -- was more than had been expected.
"They needed to do it for the currency," said James S. Fralick, director of European Economics at Morgan Stanley and Company in London.
John Lipsky, chief economist at Salomon Brothers, said the size of the reduction also appeared to be a move to encourage Germany and other European nations, especially France, to make the budget cuts and tax increases needed to lower their deficits to the levels required to join in the European single currency in 1999. The repurchase-rate cut yesterday might be expected to offset some of the economic drag from these spending cuts and tax increases.
"Whether by design or by coincidence, the Bundesbank's actions are more congenial for its neighbors that sometimes in the past," Mr. Lipsky said, noting that in the early 1990's, the Bundesbank's refusal to heed the difficulties of Germany's neighbors led to a near-breakup of the European Monetary System.
But a one-day decline in currency values will not be sufficient to revive Europe. Some think that the German mark has to weaken enough to raise the value of the dollar to a range of 1.5 to 1.55 marks, where it was from mid-April to mid-July, before the economy will get a significant lift. Late in New York trading yesterday, the dollar was at 1.4918 marks, up more than one-half of 1 percent.
"The German recovery and continuing European growth seem assured," Mr. Lipsky said. "But if fiscal measures are implemented as planned, there is little reason to believe that growth will exceed trend," which is about 2 percent in Germany. "So there is little reason to expect that Europe's expansion will be sufficient to reduce Europe's high unemployment rates any time soon."
Darren Williams, European economist at UBS Ltd. in London, said that "the rate cut today helps us, but it doesn't insure a recovery."
The lowering of the German securities-repurchase rate, which, like the Federal funds rate in the United States, is an important central-bank instrument in setting monetary and interest-rate policy, brought it to its lowest level since 1979.
The Bundesbank left both German benchmark rates unchanged. The discount rate, now 2.5 percent, is generally the floor for money market rates. The Lombard rate, the ceiling on such rates, is at 4.5 percent. They were last reduced on April 18.
The other nations that followed with cuts yesterday were France, which lowered its "intervention rate" 20 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, and Belgium, Austria and the Netherlands.
In announcing the reduction, the Bundesbank's president, Hans Tietmeyer, indicated that another rate cut was not likely in the near term. "With the decision today," he said, "we have established clarity for the foreseeable future."
In the markets, the yield on the 10-year German bond fell to 6.29 percent from 6.34 percent. In France, where the German rate cut is expected to release some pressure on the franc, the 10-year bond yield fell to 6.34 percent from 6.41 percent. The franc slipped moderately against the dollar. Leading European stock indexes rose.
The immediate impact on the United States from the German rate cut is minimal. It may make it easier for the Federal Reserve to hold off on a rate increase because the dollar has rallied a little as the difference between German and American rates has narrowed, making American investments more attractive. But over the years, the Fed has not paid much attention to the value of the dollar in making its policy decisions.
For the American economy, a rebounding Europe would mean more exports. But many forecasters have already assumed a rebound in Europe in their outlook for the economy here next year, so the German rate cut yesterday may just help confirm expectations rather than raise them.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (99%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); AUSTRIA (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK MORGAN STANLEY (82%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; GERMANY; FRANCE; BELGIUM; AUSTRIA; NETHERLANDS; EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (99%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); NETHERLANDS (58%); AUSTRIA (55%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ; CREDIT CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (64%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN JOHN LIPSKY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



521 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Chase Forms Venture Fund With Softbank

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER 

 BODY:
The Chase Manhattan Corporation and the Softbank Corporation of Japan have agreed to invest $25 million each in a new venture-capital fund focused on Internet companies that are based in New York, an executive close to the deal said yesterday.
So far Chase's venture arm, Chase Capital Partners, and Softbank, which has been spending billions of dollars lately on information technology investments, are the only investors in the fund, called Flatiron Partners. 
 The fund means to nurture promising new companies on the East Coast in general. But the emphasis will be on new-media and Internet-related companies in the so-called Silicon Alley business community that is springing up in Manhattan, centered on the Flatiron and SoHo districts.
For New York City, Flatiron is the second venture-capital fund with at least $50 million that has been formed this summer. In June, the financier Henry R. Kravis and other investors announced a fund they hope will eventually grow to $100 million, which would be used to create a large, privately run economic development authority for lower-income portions of upper Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens.
But unlike that fund, from which investors do not intend to take out any profits, Flatiron would hope to enrich its backers.
Flatiron is managed by Jerry Colonna, a former partner in the CMG @Ventures Fund, which financed the World Wide Web search company Lycos before it went public earlier this year, and Fred Wilson, a former partner in Euclid Partners, a New York venture fund. Chase and Softbank may also invest up to an additional $50 million each in companies financed by Flatiron, the executive said.
Officials at Flatiron, Chase and Softbank declined to comment, but the executive familiar with the deal said that it had been signed and that the fund had already invested $4 million in Yoyodyne Entertainment Inc., a company based in Irvington, N.Y., that is developing sweepstakes and promotional games on the Web.
Venture-capital funds provide money for start-up companies with an eye toward nurturing them into thriving businesses that can eventually yield big payoffs for the investors by issuing publicly traded shares in the stock market. Though only 1 of every 5 or 10 companies backed by venture funds typically can hope to reach that level of success, the availability of tens of millions of dollars of fresh capital could provide at least a short-term stimulus to New York's new-media economy.
And yet, some people involved in the venture-capital business say region-specific funds or narrowly sector-specific funds may be more a marketing gimmick, aimed at attracting capital to a new fund, than a viable strategy for investment.
The Flatiron deal follows the announcement on Wednesday of a fund created by the big Silicon Valley venture firm of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers to create companies that will produce programs using the Java programming language developed at Sun Microsystems Inc. A host of high-profile computer companies, including I.B.M., Compaq Computer and Cisco Systems, joined Sun in putting up somewhat less than half of the $100 million fund, which is called the KPCB Java Fund and expects to finance 20 to 30 companies over the next three to four years.
No one is betting against Kleiner Perkins, which was the primary backer of the Netscape Communications Corporation and an early investor in a score of successful technology companies. But since 1994, at least six multimedia venture funds have been formed, so far without much to show for their efforts.
"With one exception, they have done poorly," said Richard Shaffer, publisher of Venture Finance, an industry newsletter. That exception, he said, is Hummer Winblad Venture Partners, a small fund based in Emeryville, Calif., with a successful track record of backing only software companies. The fund's success stories include Powersoft Inc., the Arbor Software Corporation and Farallon Computing Inc.
Hummer Winblad, with the participation of Neil Weintraut, a former analyst for Hambrecht & Quist, recently started a separate, Internet-only venture fund, which, like Flatiron, is starting out with $50 million in capital.
But the special opportunity that backers of Flatiron see, according to the executive close to the firm, is that the rapid proliferation of Internet start-ups in Manhattan has been largely ignored by traditional venture-capital firms. With many venture-capital firms based either in Menlo Park, Calif., about 30 miles south of San Francisco, or in Boston, those regions over the years have received a disproportionate share of venture financing. And so far that has remained true in the Internet era.
"Half of the seed deals in the most recent round are Internet-related, but it's mostly in California," Mr. Shaffer said.
But while Northern California remains the main locus of Internet technology companies, New York fosters "content" creators -- companies that produce the publications, games, music and video material that finds its way onto CD-ROM's and into cyberspace.
The New York region is home to a sprawling collection of more than 4,200 concerns -- mainly small, entrepreneurial companies that develop and market Internet sites, multimedia software, on-line entertainment and other digital offerings.
The hub of this regional industry is Silicon Alley, which a recent study by the accounting firm of Coopers & Lybrand estimated as having 700 new-media companies.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9984 (TSE) (96%); 4726 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (96%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (60%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (60%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; SOFTBANK CORP; CHASE CAPITAL PARTNERS; FLATIRON PARTNERS SOFTBANK CORP (96%); SOFTBANK TECHNOLOGY CORP (92%); KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (60%); CHASE CAPITAL PARTNERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHASE MANHATTAN CORP; SOFTBANK CORP; CHASE CAPITAL PARTNERS; FLATIRON PARTNERS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; VENTURE CAPITAL; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; CAPITAL INVESTMENT VENTURE CAPITAL (94%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); STARTUPS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (65%); SWEEPSTAKES (62%); SEARCH ENGINES (50%); JAVA PROGRAMMING (50%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M HENRY KRAVIS (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



522 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Steady; Early Rally Proves Brief

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Treasury prices were virtually unchanged yesterday as the market again appeared unprepared to push higher without further evidence of a slower economy.
The price of the 30-year bond ended down 2/32, to 9830/32, leaving its yield unchanged at 6.83 percent. 
 The bond market opened higher after Treasury securities gained in European trading as the Bundesbank cut the German repurchase rate to 3 percent from 3.3 percent.
The unexpectedly large rate cut by the German central bank bolstered the dollar against the mark and made United States securities more attractive to foreign investors, analysts said.
Treasury prices held steady when the Government reported that initial unemployment claims rose 6,000, to 327,000, in the latest week. A slightly greater rise to 331,000 had been forecast. But hedge fund selling, aggressive early in the week, was also in evidence yesterday, although at a slower pace, analysts said.
And prices turned lower after Israel priced a $1 billion debt offering, backed by the United States Agency for International Development, through Lehman Brothers Inc. and Merrill Lynch & Company. The debt offering drew buyers out of the Treasury market.
Patrick Dimick, an analyst with CS First Boston, said there appeared to have been "significant selling" in 10- and 30-year futures against the Israeli debt.
Kevin Flanagan, first vice president and money market economist at Dean Witter Reynolds, said the market had recovered some ground in the afternoon as a few investors bought on dips in prices. Volume looked thin, he noted. Over all, he said, the market's meager performance yesterday after the German rate cut was disappointing.
"What's occurring is that people are expecting that the next economic reports won't support the view of an economy that is slowing that much," he said. "The anecdotal evidence is suggesting that maybe some of these reports will be a little more robust than what the market has priced in."
Samuel Kahan, president of A.S.K. Financial Research, agreed that the credit market was concerned about whether the slowdown in the economy that apparently occurred in July would continue.
'We've seen some signs of deceleration -- but only some," Mr. Kahan said. "The major fly in the ointment has been the decline in initial claims for unemployment. The current level is still well below the the range we've been at for the last two years. The question is whether that is just a statistical aberration or a sign that the labor market is heating up."
Today, the market will turn its attention to data on July durable goods orders. Economists expect an increase of four-tenths of 1 percent in July after a decline of six-tenth of 1 percent in June.
Mr. Kahan said that if the durable- goods data instead showed a decline, it "would go a long way" toward reassuring people that the deceleration process was continuing.
The market also faces a new supply of Treasury notes coming to the market next week. In when-issued trading, the new two-year note to be sold next week was offered at a price to yield 6 percent, and the five-year note at a price to yield 6.37 percent.
In the corporate bond market, prices were also little changed, with the exception of tobacco company debt, which fell further as the industry continued to feel legislative and litigious pressure.
Elsewhere, Citicorp Securities sold $200 million of 12-year notes. The 7.25 percent notes were priced to yield 7.362 percent.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (91%); MER (NYSE) (91%); 8675 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (82%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); FACTORY ORDERS (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%); 

PERSON: SAMUEL KAHAN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



523 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE PLAYERS;
Clinton and the Daleys: Friends Again

BYLINE: By R.W. APPLE Jr. 

 BODY:
There is no better index of the shifting political fortunes of Bill Clinton than his up-and-down relationship with the Daleys of Chicago, his hosts for the Democratic National Convention next week.
In the 1992 campaign, Mr. Clinton counted on their support in the Illinois primary and in the general election and borrowed some of their aides to give his campaign political savvy. But in 1993 and 1994, the President delivered less than the Daleys thought he had promised in terms of jobs and Federal money for urban problems. They complained publicly about his leadership and privately about his politics, grumbling that he had moved too far left, lost his focus and confused his priorities. 
 "They don't know what they're doing at the White House," William M. Daley said one night several weeks before the 1994 elections. "The Democrats are going to lose the House and the Senate."
Now the Chicago pols and the man from Hope are buddies once more.
For Richard M. Daley, the 54-year-old Mayor of Chicago, and his brother William, 48, the Mayor's chief strategist, the return of the Democrats to their city for the first time since the violent, divisive 1968 convention is a heaven-sent opportunity. Their father, Richard J. Daley, was the Mayor then, and he and his city are remembered by much of the nation and the world for the blood that flowed in the streets as the police battled antiwar demonstrators.
"They want to expunge '68 from people's minds," said a longtime family friend, "and show the world this is a cosmopolitan, progressive city."
To that end, the Mayor has used his clout to round up contributions from businessmen, Republicans prominent among them. And Bill Daley, a prominent lawyer, has served as co-chairman of the host committee for the convention. He has worked hard; by early this week, he had lost almost 15 pounds in the process.
Relations between the White House and the Loop, as Chicagoans call the center of the city, started to improve when Chicago was awarded the convention. They turned even warmer when Mr. Clinton, under the tutelage of his new adviser, Richard Morris, began to sound more like the Democratic centrist he had promised to be -- and the Daleys, like their father, have been since the beginning.
"They agree with what Dick Morris is telling Clinton," said Newton N. Minow, a Chicago lawyer who has been deeply involved in Illinois politics since the Stevenson era. "Get off the crazy stuff. Sign welfare reform, even if it's not perfect. Get back into the middle. That's where you win elections."
Bad feelings between the President and the Daleys began when Bill Daley was passed over for Secretary of Transportation in favor of Federico F. Pena, who was chosen as part of Mr. Clinton's diversity program. Mr. Daley was a good soldier. He swallowed his hurt feelings and went to Washington the next autumn to help push the North American free trade bill through Congress. But in Chicago, where such things matter, the episode was seen as an affront to the Mayor.
"He has to come back through Illinois four years from now," a Daley aide told The Chicago Tribune darkly.
Mayor Daley's candidate for United States Attorney for Northern Illinois, Richard Devine, a longtime friend, also lost out. Frank Kruesi, a former Daley policy chief, got a lesser job in the Transportation Department than he had wanted. And when the President's economic stimulus package failed, Chicago's hopes of money for 1,000 new police officers and $66 million in Federal community development block grants went down with it.
"If he keeps backing off, the people will lose confidence in him," the Mayor said of the President in June 1993. "People want a strong leader. You have to stand for something. What I am basically waiting for is money to put people to work, and money for health programs and education programs, which we were promised. We're still waiting."
That same month the Mayor complained about Mr. Clinton's health care proposals, at a time when the President needed all the friends he could get. A staunch ally of Chicago business, Mr. Daley maintained that requiring even small companies to provide health care coverage would only stunt their growth or drive them out of business completely and thereby add to the welfare rolls.
The next summer, just as negotiations for the convention were about to culminate, David Wilhelm, the Mayor's former campaign manager, was forced out as chairman of the Democratic National Committee by Leon E. Panetta, the new White House chief of staff. Mr. Wilhelm, once hailed as a young spark, at the end was derided as too young at 37 to do the job.
Mayor Daley spoke with considerable resentment about Harold M. Ickes, a top White House official who was often seen as a Wilhelm rival. Far more liberal than either Mr. Morris, his rival at the moment for the President's ear, or the Daleys, Mr. Ickes continues to arouse their suspicions.
But the convention made it necessary to smooth such things over. It was a good deal for both Washington and Chicago, the President wanting to court the electorally pivotal Midwest and the Daleys wanting to showcase the city on national and international television.
Richard M. Daley looks a bit like his father and shares his social awkwardness and predisposition for malapropisms, if not his iron-fisted control of city and state political organizations. Bald, measured and well-spoken, William Daley is not so evidently a chip off the old block. But both resent any suggestion that they have anything to apologize for when it comes to 1968.
When State Senator Tom Hayden of California, one of the Chicago Seven who organized the 1968 protests, proposed to plant a commemorative weeping willow in Grant Park, the staging area for the protesters, the Mayor declined to attend. But he accepted an invitation to a concert from Mr. Hayden, who is a delegate to this year's convention.
Still, it seems unlikely the Daleys will ever eradicate, at least for the generation that was involved, memories of the most dramatic confrontation in a year that was full of them.
It happened on the third night of the convention. On the podium, the dapper, silver-haired Abraham Ribicoff, Senator from Connecticut, was denouncing what he termed the "Gestapo tactics" of the police, who that evening had clubbed antiwar protesters and innocent bystanders in downtown Chicago.
Below him, on the floor of the convention, was Mayor Richard J. Daley, beefy and bellicose, the chairman of his state's delegation to the convention. The television cameras picked up his image as he cupped his hands to his mouth and shouted an epithet at his fellow Democrat. The sound of his words was lost in the turbulence of the moment, but it was not hard to read his lips.
Mayor Richard M. Daley, though a delegate this year, has chosen not to head the delegation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard J. Daley at the Democratic convention 28 years ago. Mayor Richard M. Daley of Chicago chatted with Carmen Lomelin, a former member of his staff who is now a Presidential aide, on a visit yesterday to the United Center, site of the Democratic National Convention. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CITIES (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); 

PERSON: DALEY, WILLIAM; DALEY, RICHARD M (MAYOR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); APPLE, R W JR BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



524 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2050 words

HEADLINE: With Welfare Overhaul Now Law, States Grapple With the Consequences

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22

 BODY:
Even as President Clinton signed the welfare bill, the biggest shift in social policy since the Depression, many state officials across the country say they are nowhere near ready to assume the greater control the measure grants them of the nation's vast welfare system.
Many state officials who supported the law now acknowledge, as they read the fine print, that it is in some ways tougher on recipients, and in other ways less flexible for state governments, than some had envisioned. Some provisions did not coalesce until the final hours in negotiations with the White House and Congressional leaders. 
 For one thing, even the 45 states that have already received permission to experiment with their own welfare programs will have to meet a strict standard of having a quarter of their welfare recipients working by next year, or face losing some of their Federal financing. In the first weeks after the bill was passed, officials in some of those states had thought they would be exempt from that provision for several years, until their Federally approved experiments ended.
It is also unclear whether states will be able to keep recipients on the rolls beyond the new law's five-year lifetime limit.
Other officials, in interviews, said they were still confused by the nuts and bolts of the final bill, with its host of riders they are still examining. "I don't think anyone out there has the whole bill figured out yet," said Douglas Howard, administrator of the Iowa Division of Economic Assistance. "I think there's a lot of anxiety."
Marilynn Knipp, an associate director of the Missouri Department of Social Services said, "It's a maze and a tangle." Jack Tweedie, welfare policy specialist at the National Conference of State Legislatures in Denver, said, "The word is confusion."
Typical of the confusion is a part of the legislation that would seem simple -- the definition of "work." The ultimate purpose of the law is to put able-bodied welfare recipients to work. But many states count a broad array of job-training and education programs as work, while the new law's definition is much more restrictive.
 
Turmoil Ahead In States and Cities
As they parse the technicalities, officials are contemplating a new chapter in the welfare debate, one that will be waged outside of Washington.
By all accounts, there will be political battles in capitals across the country, as big cities like New York, Chicago and Detroit compete with suburban and rural communities for resources. Many will have to make tough choices that will certainly provoke debate, particularly whether to extend support to people whom the Federal system will no longer fully protect, like impoverished childless adults, noncitizens, and children whose parents refuse to get jobs or fail to get work by the deadline.
Some states are far along in getting ready for the changes. For example, in Wisconsin and Michigan, whose welfare systems were the prototypes for the new law, officials say they will be ready by this fall to submit plans describing how they will comply, and to start tapping the block grants Washington will allot them. "We will be sending our plan out for comment even as the President signs the bill," said Gerald H. Miller, director of Michigan's Family Independence Agency.
But interviews with welfare officials in more than 20 states, and with groups that track state politics, show that most states are far from drafting plans that all must submit to the Department of Health and Human Services by July 1. "We're going to have to go through months and months of discussions," said Ronald L. Rhodes, spokesman for the Ohio Department of Social Services.
And even though they have most of a year to submit proposals, now that Mr. Clinton has signed the bill, they must immediately begin dealing with some of the law's provisions, like those cutting aid the Federal Government will still provide -- food stamps and disability checks -- to legal immigrants who have been in the country for less than 10 years.
In other provisions, the legislation requires that recipients be working within two years of receiving their first welfare check; if not, they lose their benefits. It also places a five-year lifetime limit on cash benefits, except for the 20 percent of the welfare cases that states may determine to have special hardships, like the burden of caring for a disabled child. States can pay for more aid if they want, but the money must come from their own resources.
Vera Blakes, an assistant secretary of the Social Services Department in Louisiana, a poor and generally conservative state that supports lowering the welfare rolls, described what the bill's provisions could mean. "A child could very well have to go to foster care," she said. "Parents will say, 'I have a six-year education, and I can't find a job. I can't afford to care for this child.' "
"It takes a lot to give up a child," she continued. "But imagine a child sitting over there with no place to sleep. It sounds like Charles Dickens, but people will have to make those decisions."
With the ink on Mr. Clinton's signature barely dry, some officials in the Administration and Congress are suggesting that during the new term after the election, Congress may decide to modify the provisions affecting legal immigrants. "We can change what is wrong," the President said during the signing ceremony in reiterating his discomfort with the bill's curbs on aid to legal immigrants. Indeed, many of the President's liberal political supporters have said all along that they are hoping the bill will be softened after this year's election.
Two possible approaches are to establish a fund of several billion dollars that states could use to help immigrants move from welfare to jobs, or to delay the immigrant provisions by a year.
But the immigrant provisions offer major budget savings in the bill, and so changing them may be difficult to accomplish.
In most states, the main effects of the law's principal provision -- replacing Federal cash assistance to welfare recipients with block grants to states over which they have more control -- will not be felt immediately. Indeed, over the next two years, because of various technicalities, most states will actually get more in their block grants than they did under the old program.
But the total amount for all block grants, $16.4 billion, will remain the same until 2002, with no allowance for either inflation or population growth, so states will feel the pinch within a few years.
 
Coming to Terms With the Details
 At this point, most states are still just grappling with the details. All agree that the welfare system needed an overhaul to promote jobs and and self-sufficiency instead of lifetime dependence. Many complain about some features of the law but see them in the context of a change they all endorse.
"There's a lot of different attitudes, from, 'Oh, my God, this is a disaster,' to 'It's about time we made recipients go to work,' " Mr. Tweedie said. "This is a huge task, but they're very interested in ideas on how to accomplish it."
From the moment three weeks ago when the President said he would sign the bill, states have been hounding the Administration for guidance.
"We've been talking with H.H.S. on a daily basis," Claudette Beaulieu, spokeswoman for Connecticut's Social Services Department, said of the Federal Department of Health and Human Services. Since last week, Mary Jo Bane, the assistant secretary at the Federal agency who oversees welfare, has been conducting conference calls with state officials.
But Peter Leousis, North Carolina's assistant secretary for children, youth and family in the state's Human Resources Department, said the Federal agency often did not have the answers. "In some respects they know no more than we do."
To help states understand the law, the National Governors' Association, the National Conference of State Legislatures and the American Public Welfare Association have called a special conference here of 300 to 400 state administrators for Sept. 9 and 10. Regional conferences are scheduled, too. "I'm taking 40 to 50 calls a day," said Elaine Ryan, the welfare association's expert on the law.
One of the major problems has to do with how the bill defines work. The definition is crucial because the law will cut 5 percent from a state's block grant unless 25 percent of its welfare recipients are "working," according to the law's meaning, at least 20 hours a week by next year. Each year after that, the state can lose an additional 2 percent if it does not place more people in "work."
The bill takes a more restrictive view than many state officials do of what is "work." For example, the bill counts no more than four consecutive weeks of job hunting as work, while many state officials, who say finding a job can take much longer, would prefer to permit several months of job searching as work.
Many states also disagree with how the bill counts training and education as work. The legislation considers training in a specific skill as work, while some states count as work a wide range of job-training programs, including a two- to four-year liberal-arts education.
Deborah Huskins, assistant commissioner in Minnesota's Department of Human Services, raised another, quite different, issue, concerning how the law determines who is working. If welfare recipients get jobs that pay well enough to free them of all public assistance, they would not be counted, under the law, among the 25 percent of the state caseload that must be working. Ms. Huskins said states will have no reason to help people get well-paid jobs if such employment leads to cuts in Federal money to the state.
She said the law "has set up a perverse incentive for states to keep people on public assistance and in low-paying jobs because that counts toward meeting the work percentages."
Many state officials are also concerned about the law's work requirements because the economy could fall into a recession, making jobs harder to get, and because employers often are not eager to hire long-term welfare recipients who never learned the disciplines of work.
"We've been looking at job projections," said Jean Ross, executive director of the California Budget Project, a nonpartisan research group in Sacramento. "The question nobody has asked is, 'Are there jobs for these people?' "
 
Questions Linger Over Time Limits
Another contentious issue concerns the general five-year lifetime limit on welfare. Through waivers, some states have established different time limits, some longer and some shorter, but under the new law, the longer limits are no longer valid. Although earlier this week, the District of Columbia received permission to keep recipients on the rolls longer, it is still unclear whether other states will either seek or be granted such permission.
Meanwhile, the bill contains some provisions that venture into social engineering by encouraging both marriage and abstinence. Under one provision, the Government will pay $20 million in annual bonuses to each of the five states that record the sharpest reductions in illegitimate births each year from 1999 to 2002. Under another, the law allocates $400 million to states to teach abstinence and nothing for other means of birch control.
Officials are also concerned that the new law will foster tensions among cities, counties and statehouses as people are shed from the welfare rolls, and turn up at the shelters and soup kitchens of local charities and governments.
"I'm concerned," said Reagan Wilson, chief executive of Stanislaus County, California. He said 85,000 people in a county population of 425,000 are on some form of welfare. "The most immediate impact will be on legal immigrants," he said.
Ms. Huskins said, "The old program doesn't work for families," adding, "We certainly endorse the overall direction toward work."
"But it's hard to become enthusiastic," she continued. "We were willing to take the block grant as long as we had flexibility to decide what we should be doing. Instead we got a great deal of prescriptions and a lot of details as far as what counts as work and what counts as success" in moving recipients into jobs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MISSOURI DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (53%); SOCIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (68%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; STATES (US); STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



525 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 221 words

HEADLINE: Supply-Side Policy Wrecked U.S. Exports

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Alan S. Blinder's critique of Bob Dole's supply-side revisionism ("The Republican Riverboat Gamble," Op-Ed, Aug. 20) is right on target.
However, he fails to mention the one additional devastating consequence of the Reagan tax cuts during the early 1980's: the dramatic 35 percent real appreciation of the United States dollar against the Japanese yen and currencies of Western Europe. 
 This appreciation, which resulted from the increased real growth and the high real interest rates induced by President Reagan's supply-side policies, effectively decimated the United States export sector in the 1980's. It was like handing a 35 percent pricing advantage to our German and Japanese competitors worldwide, thus rendering uncompetitive many export-based United States companies.
The one bright spot in the recent recovery has been the re-emergence of export-based manufacturing, especially in the former rust belt. However, these sectors are now under increased pressure because of the recent reversal in the value of the dollar.
Mr. Dole's promised tax cuts and the predictable response of the Federal Reserve on interest rates may well wreck the resurgence of his "heartland" with their likely adverse impact on the dollar's value.
 
ANANT K. SUNDARAM
Glendale, Ariz., Aug. 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (75%); WESTERN EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (75%); WESTERN EUROPE (70%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY EXPORT TRADE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; SUNDARAM, ANANT K RONALD REAGAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



526 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: Abortion Debate Isn't Fueled by Economics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Susan Faludi, in "The G.O.P.'s Back Stairs" (Op-Ed, Aug. 18), rightly calls attention to the rarely mentioned class factor in the abortion debate. Her reasoning seems tortured, however, in arguing that economic resentments are fundamental to the mind-set of the anti-abortion movement. If they were, most anti-abortionists would be Socialists or at least welfare-state liberals.
In fact, most agree with the Republican Party on economic as well as social issues. No group promoted Newt Gingrich's Contract With America more than the Christian Coalition. An employee may resent his boss's power over him, but that power doesn't depend on her position on abortion. 
 Moreover, millions of anti-abortionists are neither poorer nor more religious nor less educated than average Americans, just as millions of pro-choicers are neither richer nor less religious nor more educated than average.
The resentment that drives anti-abortionists is of a different character. It is not directed chiefly against economic privilege but is rooted in a puritanism whose political manifestations have been America's myriad prohibitionist crusades that have sought to outlaw acts that take place between consenting adults and harm no one's person or property.
The most important thread running through such crusades is neither religious fanaticism nor resentment of economic power by the powerless, though both are factors, but rather a puritan resentment of those who partake of a wide variety of pleasures generally foreign to the experience, if not the capacity, of the resentful.
That resentment seeks to punish deviations from the morality prescribed. It also explains why many of today's anti-abortionists think abortion should be legal when pregnancies result from rape or incest.
 
BRADLEY MILLER
Washington, Aug. 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN COALITION (57%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION (57%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; ETHICS ABORTION (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); LIBERALISM (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ETHICS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: MILLER, BRADLEY NEWT GINGRICH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



527 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rallies Against the Mark On Interest Rate Cut in Germany

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar rallied against the mark and most other currencies yesterday after Germany's central bank made a surprisingly large cut in an important short-term interest rate.
The cut in the Bundesbank's securities repurchase, or repo, rate, to 3 percent from 3.30 percent, was intended to stimulate the German economy, the biggest in Europe. It was the first decrease in German rates in four months. 
 There had been widespread expectations that the rate would be reduced because German growth has been slow and inflation has been subdued. But the size of the reduction was double what the foreign-exchange market had anticipated.
Some traders had prepared for the possibility that the Bundesbank's policy-making council might leave rates unchanged because of anecdotal evidence that the economic recovery was accelerating.
"I'd say the cut was the big catalyst today," said Robert Katz, a currency trader at the MTB Bank Corporation in New York. "The size of the cut certainly surprised the market to a degree."
Lower rates weaken the mark by diminishing demand for mark-denominated assets. But they can stimulate Germany's economy by lowering borrowing costs and helping exporters. A cheaper mark makes German goods more affordable abroad.
The dollar hit a high of 1.4960 marks before retreating a bit in the afternoon as traders sought to lock in profits. The dollar also ended slightly lower against the yen, partly because the Japanese currency also rebounded against the mark on the Bundesbank's decision.
In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar settled at 1.4918 marks, up from 1.4825 on Wednesday. The dollar stood at 108.20 yen, down from 108.46 Wednesday. The British pound rose to $1.5505 from $1.5500.
Though the Bundesbank's action vindicated forecasts of a rate cut, many traders said the size of the reduction suggested that it was the final step in a series of cuts made intermittently by the central bank since 1992. This partly explained why the dollar did not rally further and remains within the 1.4700-1.5000 mark range where it has been for the last few months.
 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 1996, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about trading in the currency markets on Thursday referred incorrectly in some editions to a high rate touched by the dollar against the German mark that day. It was 1.4960 marks, not 149.60 marks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BUNDESBANK MTB BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUNDESBANK

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); BRITISH POUND (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



528 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 23, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Despite Drop, Rate of Layoffs Remains High

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22

 BODY:
The layoff rate in the mid-1990's declined slightly from the early years of the decade but remained well above a comparable period a decade earlier, the Labor Department reported today.
The department's survey, done every two years and the most comprehensive count available of jobs lost in this downsizing era, portrayed a work force still experiencing frequent job losses even as unemployment has shrunk and the economy has expanded at a steady pace. A total of 8.4 million people were pushed out of their jobs involuntarily from 1993 through 1995, the Labor Department reported. That represented 1 out of every 14 jobholders, compared with 1 out of 12 in the early 1990's. 
 Americans who lost jobs found new ones more easily and in larger numbers than in the early 1990's. Indeed, the economy has added more than 10 million new jobs since 1993. But those who were laid off for good from their jobs showed little progress in trying to match their old wages. Only 33 percent earned as much as or more than they had before.
"You still have many layoffs," Thomas Nardone, a supervising economist at the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics, said, "and if you lose your job, most people don't end up in situations that are as good in terms of earnings as the jobs they lost."
The much-awaited survey results, considered a bedrock statistic in the debate over economic insecurity, immediately entered the election campaign. Advisers to Bob Dole's Presidential campaign declared that the survey reflected a work force still suffering from job insecurity and wage stagnation. The Clinton Administration cited the survey as evidence that "times are better" and the worst of the job losses were over.
The 8.4 million jobs eliminated represented a decline of 7 percent from the 9 million lost in the three years ending in 1993, the Bureau of Labor Statistics calculated. The earlier years were mostly a time of recession and sluggish economic growth. But while the number of jobs lost fell, it did not decline by as much as it had in the mid-1980's, when the economy was at a similar stage following a recession.
"Basically, we are living in a situation in which the public mood is that jobs are at risk," said Henry Farber, a Princeton University labor economist. But he added that the latest data showed that the situation was not as bad as some people thought. "There is absolutely no evidence here for people who take the gloomy view that job loss rates are up."
The Labor Department began its "job displacement" surveys in 1984, when widespread permanent layoffs were just becoming a national issue. Those surveys, which measured the elimination of jobs beginning in 1979, found that permanent job losses fell sharply after the 1981-1982 recession, then rose again for the 1990-1991 recession. (Temporary layoffs are not counted.)
But after the early 1990's recession, they failed to ease by as much as they had before. The data released today showed that from 1993 through 1995, the jobs of about 7.2 percent of the work force were eliminated, the Bureau of Labor Statistics calculated. By comparison, at the same stage in the recovery after the early 1980's recession, between 5.5 percent and 6.5 percent of the nation's jobholders were laid off.
"These numbers suggest a long-term upward trend as a natural cost of having a more competitive economy," said Frank Levy, a labor economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The New York Times, in a series of articles on downsizing in March, combined the Government's job displacement data into a single set of figures that reconciled overlapping numbers from different surveys. Using this data, and employing a moving average technique, The Times estimated that a total of 43.5 million job losses occurred from 1979 through 1995. That series included projections for the years 1994 and 1995 that showed a modest decline in the number of jobs lost. Substituting the actual data for the projections produced a total of 43.3 million jobs lost for the 17-year period, including nearly 10 million from 1993 through 1995.
The Times' series on downsizing and the projections on job loss drew criticism for exaggerating the problem. An article in The New Yorker quoted the White House's chief economist, Joseph E. Stiglitz, as saying that The Times' projections for the years 1994 and 1995 should be taken "with a grain of salt."
In fact, the newly released figures show that the number of jobs lost was not quite as high as The Times projected in March -- 2.7 percent fewer in 1994 and 4.7 percent fewer in 1995. But the rates of job loss remained noticeably above those for the years 1986 and 1987, when the economy was at a similar point of recovery from a recession. A major point of The Times series was that job loss, measured as a percentage of the work force, had remained higher than in past recoveries.
The writer of the New Yorker article, John Cassidy, did not reply to two telephone messages left late today.
The survey showed that job loss in the mid-1990's continued to display the characteristics that first showed up in the late 1980's and early 1990's. White-collar workers represented 52 percent of those who lost jobs and blue-collar workers 35 percent, much different from the early 1980's, when layoffs were largely a blue-collar phenomenon. Men still edged out women, 56 percent to 44 percent, but women edged up two percentage points from the early 1990's while men slipped by the same amount.
People in their prime working years, 25 to 54, still represented the overwhelming majority of those laid off: 78 percent, up a percentage point from the early 1990's. Only older men, 55 to 64 years old, showed slightly more resistance to layoffs than they had shown in the early 1990's, falling to 8 percent from 9 percent.
The survey, covering 50,000 representative households, found that 73 percent of those who lost their jobs from 1993 through 1995 were employed again when the survey was done last February, compared with 68 percent in the early 1990's. Only 9.8 percent listed themselves as job-hunting and unemployed, down from 13.1 percent in the earlier period.
"Things are better," Mr. Stiglitz said, crediting the Administration's economic policies. The American labor market, he said, "is creating enough jobs for new entrants to the labor force and almost three-quarters of all displaced workers."
But he acknowledged that wages were another matter. Of those who lost full-time jobs in 1993 and 1994, some 33 percent had landed new full-time jobs by last February that paid as much or more as the ones they had lost, the report found. That was up slightly from 31 percent in the early 1990's.
Nearly 27 percent, the same percentage as in the early 1990's, had taken jobs that paid less than what they had earned before. Most of the remaining 40 percent were unemployed, or had given up job hunting and had dropped out of the labor force, or were self-employed.
But while Mr. Stiglitz highlighted the rise in the re-employment rate from the early 1990's and the decline in permanent layoffs, a dimmer view came from John B. Taylor, a Stanford University economist and a chief Dole economic adviser. "The job loss rate is high for this stage of a recovery," he said. "It is hard to see any of the improvement that the Administration claims. Job insecurity is still widespread."

CORRECTION-DATE: August 24, 1996, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about a Government report tabulating the rate of layoffs in the mid-1990's referred incorrectly in some editions to the percentage change between two periods -- 1991-93 and 1993-95. The decline in job elimination was 7 percent, not 16.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "After a Layoff" shows employment status in January 1994 of workers who lost full-time job in 1991 or 1992 and shows employment status in January 1996 of workers who lost full-time job in 1993 or 1994. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. D2); Jobs Lost, Year by Year" shows millions of workers displaces each year from 1979 to 1995. (pg. D2)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LAYOFFS (92%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); ELECTIONS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996



529 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Cyber-House Financing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was shocked to see Karl E. Meyer describe my house as a "charmless techno-villa" that is the result of "Reagan-era tax cuts" (Editorial Notebook, Aug. 18). While your esthetic interest is flattering, I must protest your maligning the Reagan revolution. The Reagan tax reform raised from 20 percent to 27 percent the tax rates on capital gains -- the kind of income typically used to finance such houses. But shouldn't this be beside the point in any case? 
 For the sake of the Republic, I hope that the continuing debate on tax policies will focus on societal and economic effects, rather than on architectural arcana.
 
CHARLES SIMONYI
Bellevue, Wash., Aug. 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (64%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (64%); WASHINGTON, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: FEDERAL TAXES (US); TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX REFORM (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); 

PERSON: REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; SIMONYI, CHARLES RONALD REAGAN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



530 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Cotton Prices Surge on Concerns About Rainfall From Hurricane

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Cotton prices surged yesterday on the New York Cotton Exchange over concern that Hurricane Dolly could bring unwanted rain to southern Texas and Arizona, possibly hurting crops.
On other markets, crude oil prices fell while copper rose. 
 The hurricane, which reached land near Tampico, Mexico, yesterday morning, was expected to bring more than an inch of rain to farmland in southeastern Texas and could cause heavy showers in areas as far west as Arizona.
While those areas have suffered from dry weather, the rains come after the cotton bolls have opened, potentially reducing the size of the crop and its quality.
At the same time, consumption by American textile mills has increased, and exports began to pick up after disappointing traders earlier his year.
"There's a little bit of concern coming out of that hurricane; it's certainly not beneficial," said Scott Coleman, vice president at the Coleman Brothers Cotton Company in Memphis. "Also, you had decent exports and better-than-expected consumption, so there's been a small flurry of bullish news."
Cotton for December delivery rose 1.5 cents. to 74.95 cents a pound.
Crude oil prices fell, retreating from Thursday's gains, after Mexico's state oil company said it had reopened three export terminals as the hurricane passed.
The storm's path across the Yucatan peninsula and up the Gulf of Mexico had prompted Petroleos Mexicanos to shut its three main ports for three days as a precaution.
The company said yesterday that it had reopened the ports, and exports to the United States had resumed.
October crude oil fell 34 cents, to $21.96 a barrel, at the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Copper rose after a report showed a jump in demand for durable goods, products that include communications equipment, aircraft and automobiles, which contain large amounts of copper. Orders for durable goods rose 1.6 percent in July, the Commerce Department said.
September copper rose 1.05 cents, to 91.7 cents a pound, on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; COTTON; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) COTTON & COTTONSEED (94%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); COTTON MARKETS (91%); FUTURES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HURRICANES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); DURABLE GOODS (86%); TEXTILES (79%); FIBER MARKETS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



531 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
For most Americans, the only good tax is a smaller one. Not only is it every American's unalienable right to speak evil of taxation, in election season it is every politician's duty.
Most voters might be surprised to discover how little support this ingrained attitude gets from the nation's three longstanding religious traditions. 
 Rabbi David Wolpe, for example, came to the phone just after watching a speaker declare on C-Span recently that taxation is thievery. "Judaism's view is just the opposite," said Rabbi Wolpe, the assistant to the chancellor at the Jewish Theological Seminary in New York. "As far back as the Bible, where you owed tithes of all sorts, there has always been an obligation to contribute to the good of the whole."
What the Rev. J. Bryan Hehir, a former official at the National Conference of Catholic Bishops who teaches social ethics at Harvard Divinity School, said that Roman Catholics' attitudes toward paying taxes was probably true of most Americans: "It's always news to Catholics to hear that something they regard as (a) totally secular and (b) nothing but a burden, is in fact the exercise of a virtue."
For Father Hehir, the key is the Catholic belief that the human person is inherently a social creature and has natural duties toward others. The state, using taxes, is one vehicle, though not the only one, that fulfills those duties.
As for what the Rev. Max Stackhouse, the Stephen Colwell Professor of Christian Ethics at Princeton Theological Seminary, calls the "classical tradition" in Protestantism, it has almost always taught that "there is a positive duty to support the political powers."
Only the sectarian, generally pacifist wing of Protestantism has radically challenged Christians' involvement with the state, he said.
James Skillen, the director of the Center for Public Justice, a religious research and educational group based in Annapolis, Md., even questioned the religious basis for Bob Dole's declaration that "it's your money" that government is spending as it wishes. The center has working ties with conservative evangelicals as well as centrist denominations.
Government, Mr. Skillen said, has been ordained by God to carry out certain tasks of protecting the society and assuring justice. What citizens owe for those tasks is not, in fact, their own money but the government's -- and how it is to be spent is quite properly decided by the political process and public officials.
"The prejudice that we can start with the assumption that someone is stealing your money," he said, "seems to me to be the wrong place to start."
None of these authorities pretend that his own religious tradition dictates a specific tax system or whether to increase the exemption for children or reduce the tax rate on capital gains. And though the traditions do insist that government must be limited, they do not prescribe exactly where the limits should fall. All that is the legitimate stuff of campaign debate.
What campaign debate often fosters, however, is less legitimate in the eyes of these traditions: the attitude that taxes are nothing but an unavoidable evil, or at least as unavoidable as one's tax lawyer can make them.
One person who has studied these questions in detail is Rabbi Aaron Levine, the Samson and Halina Bitensky Professor of Economics at Yeshiva University and the author of three books jointly published by KTAV Publishing House and Yeshiva University Press ("Free Enterprise and Jewish Law," 1980; "Economics and Jewish Law," 1987, and "Economic Public Policy and Jewish Law," 1993).
From the first century of this era, Jewish sages discussed the principles of levying taxes for building a town wall, the ancient equivalent of national defense. Could everyone be compelled to pay? Should everyone pay equally, or should wealthy households, with more at risk, pay more? What about those closer to the wall who would otherwise be especially vulnerable to marauders? Should the rules be different if the town abutted on enemy territory or was far from it?
Needless to say, the Talmudic commentators so thoroughly explored every argument that Rabbi Levine can easily link their reasoning to modern economic concepts of public goods, Pareto Optimality, free riders and intertemporal resource allocation.
For those not absorbed by the thrust and parry of Talmudic texts, the ethical bottom line, Rabbi Levine said, is that taxation is not only justified for governmental responsibilities like national defense and police protection but also for a wider range of social welfare measures, including the prevention and relief of poverty. And the rabbis said this taxation should be "proportional."
Prevention of poverty by generating employment has a higher priority than relief, Rabbi Levine argues, in keeping with Maimonides's teaching that the highest form of charity is helping the needy help themselves. As a rabbi, the Yeshiva professor said that "workfare is right on the mark"; but as an economist he rejected Mr. Dole's supply-side strategy for generating growth and jobs, calling it "totally repudiated by the record."
So what about flattening the tax rate? All of these religious leaders thought their traditions leaned toward a progressive system in which not just the amount but also the proportion one pays increases with income. But they acknowledged that this preference might be outweighed by practical considerations of economic efficiency.
Rabbi Levine said that Judaism's sages had taught that the tax burden ought to be shared "proportionally" without ever clarifying what that meant. He said he believed that the case for a progressive tax system, because it built in "automatic stabilizers" against economic tailspins or overheating, derived from Jewish law's injunction that government maintain economic stability.
To the extent that the state can assure social welfare in ways the private sector cannot, Americans should pay their taxes "with equanimity," Rabbi Levine said. Indeed, within a minute or so of conversation, he said it again. Equanimity? Taxes? Americans? There is a man who believes in the power of God.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (75%); 

CITY: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; PROTESTANT CHURCHES YESHIVA UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; PROTESTANT CHURCHES NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (75%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; JEWS CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (97%); RELIGION (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); ETHICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER AARON LEVINE (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



532 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Replenishing Beaches Protects Mainland

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Fire Island is not eroding as "the inevitable effect of a rising sea level" as Orrin Pilkey suggests ("Sand-Castle Mentality on Fire Island," Op-Ed, Aug. 18).
The highest observed rate of sea-level rise is less than a foot a century, and even that estimate is subject to question, as Mr. Pilkey's own book, "The Corps and the Shore," notes. 
 The real cause of erosion on Fire Island is blockage of sand by the Westhampton groin field and failure to bypass sand around Moriches Inlet's jetties and deltas.
Nor does the Army Corps of Engineers want "to help homeowners by bringing in new sand." The proposed project, justified on the protection it will provide to the mainland, is based on a cost-benefit analysis. The recreational value of Fire Island is not even considered.
Mr. Pilkey would plug holes in the island as they occur. But engineers say a hole in western Fire Island, near the lighthouse, would cause its inlet to close and a new inlet would have to be stabilized. This would cost far more than replenishing the beaches.
Mr. Pilkey supports the Corps' Breach Contingency Plan, which was based on a recommendation of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's Coastal Erosion Task Force.
But the task force recognized that if the sand nature intended to move along barrier islands is not there, breaches (and mainland flooding) are inevitable. Thus, the other recommendations of the task force -- modification of the Westhampton groin field, bypassing sand at inlets and replenishment of the island -- equally deserve his support.
Fire Island's 32 miles of beach are open to the public and are used by millions each year. Add to that economic estimates that the island accounts for $1 billion a year to Long Island's $10 billion tourist industry and it is clear that Mr. Pilkey's theories of coastal retreat are not relevant to New York.
With the exception of erosion control, New York State has done a good job of preserving its beaches and shores and is improving on public accessibility. Mr. Pilkey's theories would be the ruination of those beaches.
 
GERARD STODDARD
New York, Aug. 19, 1996
 
The writer is president of the Fire Island Association, a property owners' group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FIRE ISLAND ASSN FIRE ISLAND ASSOCIATION (94%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRE ISLAND ASSN ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FIRE ISLAND (NY); MORICHES INLET (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES; COAST EROSION EROSION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BEACHES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WRITERS (78%); EROSION CONTROL (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ARMIES (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); ENGINEERING (69%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: STODDARD, GERARD ORRIN PILKEY (93%); GERARD STODDARD NEW YORK (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



533 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Bonds Fall After Durable Goods Orders Surge

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Probably the last thing investors wanted to see yesterday, was strong economic data showing the manufacturing sector expanding at a brisk pace, even though there were suspicions. But it happened, and prices of government securities fell sharply as a result.
Investors sold the long maturities, moving to the short end of the market, fearing the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates sooner rather than later. 
 To be sure, there were also other dynamics at work in the market -- options expirations, repositioning of portfolios by dealers ahead of Treasury auctions next week and a glut of fresh numbers late in the week.
The 30-year bond fell 110/32 to a price of 9715/32 to yield 6.95 percent, up from 6.83 percent on Thursday and the highest since July 31, when it was 6.97 percent.
In futures trading, which affects the cash market for current issues, traders said the September bond contract might have lost more were it not for options expirations yesterday. "Nevertheless," said Robin Mesch, chief fixed-income analyst for Thomson Research of Boston, "the September bond futures contract was moving in only one direction yesterday, and it wasn't up. The session's high price was 11016/32 , and at the close it was 10917/32 , down a full point from the previous day."
Jack Regan, chief derivatives strategist at Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, said the latest data would seem to indicate that the early June and July numbers that caused perceptions of a weakening economy may have been an aberration.
"The July durable goods order today showed strength across the board," Mr. Regan said. "And amidst the slow summer trade we have supply looming next week in the way of two- and five-year notes. With many traders as well as investors on holiday, the demand may very well be on the light side."
Between options expiration and dealers repositioning themselves for next week, market volume was higher than an average summer Friday, according to Govpx, a bond pricing service. "In fact," said Maureen Mooney, market analyst with the firm, "it was 18 percent higher." She noted that activity in the two-year when-issued note was heavy and was about 66 percent higher than normal volume on a Friday before an auction. The two-year note was offered at a price to yield 6.10 percent and the five-year note at a price to yield 6.48 percent.
Behind much of yesterday's activity was the Commerce Department's report that durable goods orders for July were up a strong 1.6 percent from June. That leaves the Fed policy outlook uncertain at best.
"Benign inflation has allowed the Fed to be patient in its wait for signs of an economic slowdown, and this trend should persist," said Kim Rupert, an economist with MMS International in San Francisco. "Yet, the Fed may lose patience. Upcoming data from the National Association of Purchasing Management and the employment report will be crucial for the Fed," in deciding whether to tighten monetary policy in September, she continued, "especially prices, vendor deliveries and wages."
Yesterday's report raised fears that recent strong statistics coupled with an expected sharp rise in August payrolls could lead to another bout of selling for fear of a rate increase.
Astrid Adolfson, an economist at MCM MoneyWatch in New York, noted that there was aggressive selling before the durables report, and said she had heard rumors of a leak. "Over all," Ms. Adolfson said, "the feeling was that durable goods cemented the view that July might have been an aberration. But now I think we have already seen weak retail sales bounce back, and housing is moderate. Now the durable goods numbers tell us that there is strength across the board."
She also pointed to overseas markets getting stronger, suggesting that exports will soon add to growth. "Jobless claims numbers continue to be low and are still at 1989 prerecession levels, showing good jobs growth," she added. "But with that comes income, supporting consumer expansion."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IAP (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (54%); ICAP PLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); FUTURES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (69%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT JACK REGAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



534 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RANK AND FILE;
Democrats' Left Wing Keeps Its Power Dry

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23

 BODY:
Haunting the Democratic Presidential convention next week in Chicago will be the liberal impulse of stormy conventions past.
"I expect people, liberals, to come out protesting," said Jack Sheinkman, president of Americans for Democratic Action, the liberal lobby. 
 Mr. Sheinkman is a strong supporter of President Clinton who would nevertheless welcome some unscripted heat in protest of the President's acceptance of the Republican-led Congress's severe changes in the welfare system.
"Outside the hall, inside the hall, I expect it," said Mr. Sheinkman, a lifelong liberal and textile union organizer. He fondly recalls a time when liberals had not yet retreated to the label "progressives" in the face of Republican attack advertisements, popular skepticism and the Democrats' fall from majority power in Congress.
George Stephanopoulos, the President's senior adviser whose mother's milk in politics was the liberal agenda of local candidates, expects some protests over welfare next week, saying, "It will be hard to avoid."
But Mr. Stephanopoulos argues that in accepting and altering the Republicans' welfare overhaul, the President eliminated "the battering ram of words that for years was used to beat liberals over the head" -- the widespread stereotype of liberals' genuflecting at the altar of preserving welfare, if not enlarging it.
"The caricature of liberalism is dead," Mr. Stephanopoulos insisted. "We had to kill the caricature to save the essentials."
That thesis might fascinate such memorable convention speakers as former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, one of the most articulate liberals. But Mr. Cuomo, a proponent of the President's candidacy but decidedly not of his welfare bill, does not yet have final approval to speak. Campaign managers are considering an outline of his likely remarks.
Mr. Stephanopoulos defended the President's election-year profile as a centrist compromiser rather than the sort of intransigent liberal image that led to routs of Democrats in four of the last six Presidential elections. True liberalism is alive, if not strutting, at the party convention and can be found in a raft of Clinton initiatives, from gun controls to judgeship appointments, he said.
John Lewis, a young civil rights insurgent at the 1968 convention and now a Congressman from Georgia, agreed with that, even as he denounced the President's decision not to veto the welfare overhaul. "I don't think we as liberals will be in retreat next week," Mr. Lewis said. "Many of the same liberals who led causes at the '68 convention will be back playing major roles this time inside the hall, very much in force."
Mr. Clinton's convention managers have made clear that, far from tolerating any floor-baiting by dissatisfied delegates, liberal or otherwise, they are intent on duplicating the telegenic sheen of the Republicans' recent convention, where seldom was heard a discouraging prime-time word. The sort of liberal anti-Vietnam War insurgency that rocked the 1968 Chicago convention would present a public relations nightmare for the Clinton agents planning a tableau of unity, even if honest, untoward protest might re-arouse the curiosity of Ted Koppell and other journalists left glassy-eyed in San Diego.
A baseline measure of the current state of liberalism may be that there has not been a whimper of an election-year challenge to the President from within the party. Mr. Clinton's careful self-design as a venturesome moderate showed he learned the lesson of 1984, when Walter F. Mondale, the last down-the-line liberal to win the Democratic nomination, lost 49 states to Ronald Reagan.
In that campaign, the Republicans hammered home the stereotype of the liberal as a naive moralizer and Big Government grifter -- the straw man Tolstoy skewered a century ago: "I sit on a man's back, choking him and making him carry me, and yet assure myself and others that I am very sorry for him and wish to ease his lot by all possible means -- except by getting off his back."
"Most liberals use the word 'progressive' now," said Robert Borosage, co-director of the Campaign for America's Future, a progressive group designed to counter the President's moderate Democratic Leadership Council. "That took place after a combination of the Mondale and Dukakis debacles, where liberals got defined in part by their failure to defend themselves from Republican attacks that they were more concerned with a civil liberty, social elite agenda, as opposed to bread-and-butter populist economics."
Far from scandalized at the disappearance of the L-word, Mr. Borosage finds it a "good reflection" of a history in which, he said, progressives return to the political forefront at times of economic distress, when -- as Mr. Borosage says is happening now -- working-class voters become incensed at the increased power of business and income disparity.
No less an authority than Hillary Rodham Clinton looked askance in a television interview last May at the very suggestion of hidden liberal influences on the President.
"There is no left wing of the Clinton White House," she emphasized.
Lately, pickets furious at the President's welfare action have confronted him at public events. Some of the most unabashed liberals expect little more in Chicago than discreet protests in the designated pens, off camera beyond the hall, with scant disruption of a television show rich in determined unity and the quietude of non-controversy.
"Just as the Republicans switched in San Diego to what we always did -- showing diversity by showcasing their few blacks and women," said Representative Carrie P. Meek of Florida, "so we're switching the other way toward their thing, moderate stuff, squarely to the middle, a little to the right."
Ms. Meek accepts that for the sake of the President's re-election, guessing that Mr. Clinton does have a liberal heart even if he dares not speak that word. But she warned that she might be caught yawning amid the truly "radical" environment of Democratic harmony.
"I very definitely regret it," she said, nostalgic for bare-knuckled conventioneering.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Sheinkman, a prominent Democratic liberal, expects to see protests at the convention. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (91%); AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (91%); AMERICANS FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) LIBERALISM (93%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); APPROVALS (68%); JUDGES (62%); GUN CONTROL (60%); 

PERSON: SHEINKMAN, JACK; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINES, FRANCIS X; STEPHANOPOULOS, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (91%); JOHN LEWIS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



535 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Strong Durable Goods Data Revive Fear of Higher Rates

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23

 BODY:
Orders for durable goods surged in July, jumping 1.6 percent. That was considerably more than analysts had expected and cast new doubt on assumptions that the economy was slowing from its unsustainable fast pace of the spring.
The broadly based advance, which would have been more than twice as large had it not been for a plunge in orders from the Pentagon, drove bond prices lower, raising interest rates. Traders feared the report would make the Federal Reserve more likely to tighten monetary policy. The stock market also fell. 
 Indeed, after the close of trading on the East Coast, the central bank disclosed that at its policy meeting in early July it had shifted to a bias toward tightening, with one member favoring an immediate increase in short-term interest rates.
"The most likely outcome was a slowing of the expansion to a more sustainable pace and a continuation of subdued inflation," the central bank's minutes showed, summarizing majority opinion of the 12 voting members of its Open Market Committee. "Nevertheless," the summary added, "they were concerned that the risks to that outcome were tilted toward higher inflation."
In the seven weeks since that meeting, evidence has mounted that the economy is throttling back as desired, and the Fed held off raising rates when it met last Tuesday. But the strong orders for long-lived goods like cars and machinery reported by the Commerce Department today caused some analysts to rethink their positions.
"The durable goods report certainly increases the likelihood that the data in early August sent the wrong signal about growth slowing," said James F. O'Sullivan, an economist at J. P. Morgan.
Nancy Lazar of the I.S.I. Group, a New York securities firm, said she was sticking to her view that the Fed would find it unnecessary to raise rates this year, despite what she said had become a less convincing argument that the economy was slowing sufficiently on its own.
"One data point doesn't make a trend," Ms. Lazar said of today's report. "But it's not slowing very quickly."
Although the monthly report on orders for durables covers only about one-sixth of the economy, it is closely watched for clues about future business conditions because many of these items take months, sometimes years, to produce. And since purchases of these goods can often be easily deferred, swings in orders tend to be pronounced and to show up quickly.
Orders for electrical machinery jumped 4.7 percent last month, while primary metals and nonelectrical machinery both advanced 2.1 percent, the Commerce Department found. Transportation equipment showed no change as an increase for motor vehicles was offset by a large drop for ships and tanks.
Overall military orders dived 36.5 percent following a 26.4 percent leap in June. Had it not been for this drag, the nation's factories would have seen a 3.5 percent advance in orders for durable goods, defined as items intended to last at least three years.
Another sign of vigor last month was a solid 3.6 percent climb by nonmilitary capital goods other than aircraft -- a gauge of the business sector's own expansion plans -- following a 2.5 percent increase in June. This was in sharp contrast to declines for March, April and May.
The report also showed that shipments of durable goods rose seven-tenths of 1 percent in July and that backlogs of unfilled orders advanced 1 percent.
Kathryn Eickhoff, who runs a New York consulting firm that bears her name, said today's results were in conflict with most other recent figures, although for several weeks now first-time claims for unemployment insurance have also suggested continued economic vigor. "There's more strength to the July data" than had been supposed, she said.
The Federal Reserve's minutes described an overriding concern that inflation must be kept low enough to safeguard economic expansion. But the dominant view at the sessions on July 2 and July 3 was that "any tendency for price pressures to mount was likely to emerge only gradually and be reversible through a relatively limited" adjustment in policy.
Another reason for not raising rates then was that members feared it could have a "more pronounced effect" than usual, because a policy reversal "might generate expectations of further tightening." The preceding move, at the beginning of the year, was to trim interest rates by making money more available.
The vote last month to lean toward tightening -- but not actually do it -- was 11 to 1. Gary H. Stern, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, dissented. Mr. Stern was said to favor immediate action on the ground that the economy's momentum and strains in the labor and other markets suggested a pickup in inflation.
For the last year, the committee had maintained a symmetrical directive, meaning that it regarded the chances of its next move, in either direction, to be equally likely. The modified policy, employing the usual terminology, stated that "somewhat greater reserve restraint would, or slightly lesser reserve restraint might, be acceptable in the intermeeting period."
On a separate vote involving target ranges for monetary growth through 1997 two governors, Lawrence B. Lindsey and Janet L. Yellen, dissented because they preferred somewhat higher ranges for M-2 and M-3.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Durable Goods Orders" shows manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, Feb 1995 to Jul 1996. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: J P MORGAN DELAWARE (53%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); DURABLE GOODS (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); DEFENSE ORDERS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); BONDS (71%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR GARY H STERN (61%); NANCY LAZAR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



536 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: As the West Hesitates on Burundi, Leaders in Africa Make a Stand

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: MUSOMA, Tanzania Aug. 22

 BODY:
Outsiders have often criticized African governments for doing little to halt disasters in their midst, such as the large-scale massacres in Rwanda and Burundi, let alone to oppose military coups and support democracy. But now in East Africa, regional leaders are making a serious effort to confront the leaders of the recent coup in Burundi by imposing a trade embargo on the country.
The driving force behind the embargo is Julius K. Nyerere, the former President of Tanzania and an elder statesman in African politics. Mr. Nyerere had been trying to mediate an impasse between Tutsi and Hutu parties in Burundi since February, and had persuaded regional leaders to agree in June to a plan to send peacekeeping troops into the country to stop massacres. 
 And when Maj. Pierre Buyoya, a Tutsi leader and former Burundian President, ousted the sitting President, a Hutu, and dismantled the Government a month ago, Mr. Nyerere led the drive for an embargo.
"The East African leaders said, one, we are not going to accept the idea that this is a coup by a nice man," Mr. Nyerere, 74, said in an hour-long interview at his home near here this week. "Secondly, they did not want to simply issue another statement of strong words. They really felt action was necessary."
The decision by Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Zaire to impose trade sanctions on Burundi two weeks ago caught many Western diplomats by surprise.
For once, African countries had taken the initiative and staked the high moral ground, while the United States and Europe hesitated. Some Western diplomats argued an embargo might provoke more violence and would hurt the poor. They also viewed Mr. Buyoya as a moderate, a better alternative than more extremist Tutsi military commanders who might have seized power, and argued that the previous Government had not been stemming the ethnic warfare there in any case.
Mr. Nyerere said the decision to impose sanctions was "a completely new development in Africa during my phase of leadership."
In the past, he said, African nations had been loathe to interfere in the affairs of their neighbors. Indeed, the charter of the Organization of African Unity prohibits any intervention in the affairs of other African nations. Neighbors usually accepted most coups without a whimper. Or they paid lip service to condemning them without taking concrete action.
Mr. Nyerere broke that tradition in 1979, when he sent 50,000 Tanzanian troops into Uganda to end Idi Amin's murderous dictatorship. The invasion was warranted, he argued, because Mr. Amin had tried the year before to occupy a sliver of Tanzania.
The tradition of non-interference was also broken in Liberia, where an 8,000-strong peacekeeping force led by Nigeria has been trying since 1990 to halt the civil war there. But the force has been criticized for having less than lofty motives, since some say it has looted the country of goods from machinery to minerals.
The embargo of Burundi seems to have purer roots here, diplomats said. Democracy has grown stronger in East Africa in recent years, and many leaders now see coups as a threat, Mr. Nyerere said. In May, Uganda held its first presidential election ever, giving a strong mandate to President Yoweri K. Museveni.
In the last four years, both Kenya and Tanzania have also held multiparty elections for the first time. Even Zaire's longtime dictator, Mobutu Sese Seko, is planning to hold elections next year.
None of these elections has been a flawless democratic exercise, Mr. Nyerere acknowledged. None has even led to a change of leadership. But they have given leaders in the region what they see as a democratic mandate, he said, and so they can no longer so easily accept coups meant to cancel out the voters' wishes.
In addition, Mr. Nyerere said, the genocide in Rwanda in 1994 has deeply affected the politics of the region. In hindsight, he said, many regional leaders believe they should have intervened to stop Hutu supremacists from massacring at least 500,000 Tutsi, instead of watching from the sidelines, as much of the world did.
"There is a new leadership developing in Africa," he said. "They are saying 'What does this mean? This non-interference. What does it mean? Who is sovereign in the country. The people? Or the junta?"
Mr. Nyerere said he was slightly surprised by the lack of support the East African leaders have gotten from Western diplomats, who have balked at joining the embargo or condemning the coup.
The Western nations were worried sanctions had been applied too quickly and might provoke more violence in Burundi, where more than 150,000 people are estimated to have been killed since 1993 in clashes between the mostly Tutsi army and Hutu rebels or in the widespread abuses of civilians committed by both sides.
Some Western diplomats also wanted to give Major Buyoya more time, to see what he would do with his position, Mr. Nyerere said. They saw him as a moderate man, more likely to make peace with Hutu leaders than some other more militant Tutsi military leaders.
"East African leaders are not totally convinced of this," Mr. Nyerere said.
The embargo's purpose is to force Major Buyoya and other members of the Tutsi elite to sit down at the bargaining table with the Hutu rebels in Zaire and the main Hutu party, which won the first presidential election in 1993, Mr. Nyerere said.
To be successful, he said, the talks must find solutions to two problems: that the Hutu have been politically disenfranchised since independence 35 years ago, and secondly, that many Tutsi genuinely fear they will be massacred if Hutu come to power.
So far, the embargo seems to be holding, diplomats and journalists in Bujumbura say. Salt has tripled in price. Gasoline is being rationed, with only 20 liters for each car every week. Businessmen are complaining that they are losing thousands of dollars, as their goods rot on piers in Dar Es Salaam and Mombasa.
Still, it will take more time before the sanctions begin to cut deeply into the economy, diplomats say. Food is still plentiful in the market, and traffic is still moving. Most of the goods are being carried by hand into the capital by farmers from the surrounding countryside.
Beyond the principles of democracy, each country had other reasons to join in the blockade as well, several diplomats said. Both Zaire and Tanzania are sheltering 1.7 million Burundian and Rwandan refugees, a constant strain on resources and a source of crime. The refugees are unlikely to return home unless peace is made between Hutu and Tutsi factions in both countries.
In Kenya, President Daniel T. Arap Moi has had an aversion to coups since he was almost overthrown in 1982. In addition, there is no love lost between Mr. Moi and Tutsi leaders in both Rwanda and Burundi. He has close ties to the former Hutu Government in Rwanda.
In Uganda, President Yoweri K. Museveni has just recently won a mandate from his country in last May's election, after fighting his way to power 10 years ago in a civil war. Since then, he has taken pains to say in almost every public speech that the cycle of coup and counter coup must be broken.
Rwanda's decision to join the blockade was perhaps the most puzzling. The Government in Kigali is dominated by Tutsi who invaded from Uganda in 1991, put an end to the Hutu-sponsored genocide against Tutsi and then drove the former Hutu-led Government and army into Zaire. They were thought to sympathize with the Tutsi politicians in Burundi, who are also fighting Hutu insurgents in Zaire.
But Paul Kagame, the Tutsi Vice President who is the defacto head of state in Rwanda, opted instead to stand on principle, after wavering for nearly two weeks. In this, he joined his longtime friend and ally, Mr. Museveni. He may have had little choice, however. Rwanda is landlocked and could easily have been added to the embargo.
Still, diplomats say the sanctions are a hopeful sign that democracy is taking root. Leaders appear more frightened now than ever before of the sort of military coup common in the 1970's, like the coups that put Samuel K. Doe in charge of Liberia and allowed Idi Amin to take over Uganda.
"The ballgame has changed," said one diplomat in Nairobi. "What you have seen is more and more governments elected by the people. You do see a surge of democracy on the continent and that has changed the context in which people view these coups."

GRAPHIC: Map of Burundi and its surrounding countries. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (95%); RWANDA (94%); AFRICA (94%); BURUNDI (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (93%); UGANDA (93%); KENYA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BURUNDI; TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (95%); RWANDA (94%); AFRICA (94%); BURUNDI (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (93%); UGANDA (93%); KENYA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BURUNDI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BURUNDI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TANZANIA; BURUNDI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-KENYA; BURUNDI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-UGANDA; BURUNDI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RWANDA; BURUNDI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-ZAIRE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ; BURUNDI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-EUROPE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT COUPS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICS (76%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (76%); TRADE DISPUTES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: NYERERE, JULIUS K JULIUS K NYERERE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



537 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: Benefit of Dole Tax Plan Is Hotly Debated

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
Do tax cuts stimulate growth?
That question, which was shunted to the sidelines when reducing the budget deficit became the No. 1 priority in Washington in the late 1980's, has returned to center stage with Bob Dole's proposal to reduce Federal income taxes by at least 15 percent. The answer is complex, for while tax cuts can clearly give a boost to an economy suffering from weak output and high unemployment, there is little evidence that lowering taxes has significantly improved the ability of the economy to expand over the longer run. 
 "Even fundamental tax reform," said Joel Slemrod, an economist at the University of Michigan Business School, "is unlikely to add more than a few tenths of a percentage point to the growth rate."
By the same token, though, some very reputable economists who once scoffed at those who believed that supply-side economics was the cure for all ailments now argue that radical policy changes could make a big difference in the growth rate. "I think 3.5 percent is a very ambitious but achievable goal," said John Taylor, an economist at Stanford University and a former aide to President George Bush who is now a principal adviser to Mr. Dole.
Exhibit A in the case for tax cuts rests on the 1980's: growth from 1983, shortly after the first of the Reagan-era income-tax cuts went into effect, through 1990, when President Bush pushed through a tax increase, averaged 3.5 percent. If we could do it then, supporters contend, why can't we do it now?
Exhibit A in the case against tax cuts also relies on the experience of the last decade: the initial surge in growth was nothing more than a catch-up from the deep recession of the early 1980's and once that occurred the economy settled back into the slower-paced rut it has been in for two decades or more. And with the economy currently enjoying low unemployment and steady growth, most analysts say, there is no reason to expect tax cuts today to markedly improve the economy's performance. Indeed, unless they are offset by spending cuts aimed at consumption rather than investment, they could do more harm than good.
Some basics are necessary to sort out the argument. Charles Schultze, an economist at the Brookings Institution and chief economic adviser to President Jimmy Carter, draws a crucial distinction between pro-growth policies that work by stimulating demand and those that stimulate supply. When the economy is in recession, tax and monetary policies that encourage private spending can produce very rapid growth for brief periods as idle people and machines are put back to work. But once the economy reaches its productive capacity, the long-term growth rate depends on improvements in savings, investment, work effort and technology.
The story of growth in the American economy in the last quarter century is thus one of a fall from grace. For while ups and downs in output and employment have become less frequent and less severe, the long-term trend in growth has slowed sharply. From 1946 through 1973, output per worker rose by an average annual rate of 2.7 percent. From 1974 through 1995, by contrast, growth in labor productivity averaged just 1.1 percent annually.
From this perspective, the Reagan revolution -- at least as it pertains to economic growth -- seems much ado about nothing. The big tax cuts in 1982 yielded an average of 5 percent growth in 1983 and 1984 because they stimulated demand in the midst of a deep recession. Indeed, in the first quarter of 1984, output rose at an annual rate of 11.4 percent.
But once the gap between actual and potential output was closed, growth settled back to the familiar post-1973 path. Labor productivity rose at an average 1.3 percent in 1985 through 1988, compared with 2.3 percent during the 1983-84 recovery.
"Nothing Government has done -- for good or evil -- seems to have mattered," concluded Paul Krugman, an economist at Stanford University. Given the size of the American economy and the difficulty of altering its course, "it's like using a water pistol to shoot an elephant."
What, then, gives Mr. Dole reason to hope he could break out of the slow-growth trap? Martin Feldstein, an economist at Harvard University who is advising the Republican candidate, points to the incentive of lowering tax rates and allowing workers to keep more of their earnings.
Mr. Feldstein, while acknowledging that the total work effort of all employees is unlikely to go up by much, argues that the productivity of high-income workers -- especially those with considerable discretion in how hard they work -- could rise sharply. "All the studies of labor supply response ignore the intangibles," Mr. Feldstein said. The Dole plan would also halve the maximum tax on capital gains to 14 percent from 28 percent, he noted, increasing the incentives for those with new money-making ideas to take risks.
Mr. Feldstein's optimism about what is achievable, however, is not shared by many of his colleagues.
"Getting anywhere near 3.5 percent growth would require Asian-level investment rates," replied Barry Bosworth, an economist at the Brookings Institution. And if the experience of the 1980's is evidence, that would take a near-miracle: the array of incentives to invest offered in the 1982 Reagan tax cut hardly budged the rate of spending on business equipment. In 1979, business invested 6.1 percent of the gross domestic product in new equipment; six years later, at the height of the Reagan boom, it invested 6.4 percent.
The Dole plan, of course, includes more than just tax cuts. Changes in Government regulation, along with sweeping reform of the civil justice system, would pare business costs and presumably raise output. A variety of financial incentives would encourage college attendance and on-the-job training.
But Mr. Bosworth points out that balancing the budget with as-yet-unspecified budget cuts could actually have a perverse effect on growth if it reduced productive Government spending on things like university-based research, which would be under great pressure because Mr. Dole has declared so much of the budget off-limits. Worse, but hardly out of the question in light of the experience of the Reagan years, is what would happen if the deficit was not checked when taxes were reduced. The result, economists agree, would be higher interest rates or rising inflation, either of which would soon cause the economy to slow.
The real surprise, perhaps, is that many economists are still inclined to give the benefit of a doubt to Mr. Dole's plan for spurring growth. In part, this is probably related to unstated agendas. Many economists who are not directly involved in the Presidential campaign argue that slowing the growth of spending on Social Security and Medicare is the nation's biggest problem and they suspect that Mr. Dole is more likely to tackle that challenge head on than Mr. Clinton is.
"At least," said Paul Romer, a professor at the University of California at Berkeley and an expert on why economies grow, "the Dole people are asking the right questions."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "No Long-Term Gain" shows gross domestic product and productivity figures, 1980-1996. (Source: Haver Analytics) (pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; INCOME TAX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TAX REFORM (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; DOLE, BOB JIMMY CARTER (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



538 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Welfare Law Could Bring A Windfall

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Aug. 23

 BODY:
While some other states, notably New York and California, are sounding alarms about the new Federal welfare law's dire effects, state officials here are cautiously anticipating a windfall of as much as $90 million in Federal aid for the poor over the next year. That would mean at least a 50 percent increase over what the state would have received under the old system.
"It certainly is a pleasant surprise," said Robert Harris, assistant director of the Legislature's Office of Fiscal Analysis, a nonpartisan agency, though he noted that calculations were not yet completed and that the picture would change substantially in future years. 
 While many officials cautioned that the aid estimates might be overstated, Connecticut may still fare better than other states next year, for several reasons. Its caseload has relatively few legal immigrant noncitizens, who no longer are eligible for food stamps and other Federal aid under the new law. For instance, Federal statistics show that in 1994, 2.5 percent of Connecticut's families on welfare were legal immigrants, less than one-fourth the percentage in New York.
The new law may also weigh less heavily on Connecticut because the state has already taken substantial steps to force more welfare recipients to find work. Accordingly, it may not have to increase spending dramatically to meet new Federal goals to move people off the dole and into jobs.
But perhaps most important, Connecticut, like many states, benefits from the way Congress established the new block grant -- Temporary Assistance for Needy Families -- that replaces the old Federal reimbursement system.
In determining the amount of Federal aid to states under the new law, Congress decided that the figure would be equal to the maximum Federal welfare payments each state had received in either fiscal year 1994, fiscal year 1995 or the average of expenditures from 1992 through 1994.
For Connecticut and many other states, where welfare expenditures and caseloads have dropped in the last two years, this formula appears to be a blessing. Although 40 states have reported that they have fewer people on family welfare today, they will still be getting the amount of Federal aid they received a few years ago when the rolls had more people.
In Connecticut, the family welfare caseload is 55,763, a 7 percent drop from the July 1994 level of 59,800 families. At the same time, the state is paying less in benefits, with the average monthly check for a family of three down to $540 from $583.
Under the old law, Connecticut could have expected roughly 50 percent of its expenditures on family welfare to be reimbursed by the Federal Government. Before the law was changed, the state had projected it would receive $171 million from the Federal Government for three programs -- Aid to Families with Dependent Children, Job Opportunities and Basic Skills and Emergency Assistance to Families.
Last month, the Congressional Research Service, a nonpartisan arm of the Library of Congress, estimated that Connecticut would receive roughly $96 million more than that -- about $267 million -- after the new law takes effect.
According to the Congressional Research Service, it is also possible that Connecticut will receive $35 million in Federal child care assistance, about $4 million more than the state had expected if the old law remained in place. This number, however, is not final, and is subject to changes by Congress and the State Legislature.
Claudette Beaulieu, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Social Services, noted that roughly $10 million will be deducted from the block grant for child support payments the state owes the Federal Government. She also said that the $267 million figure may be too high, as the state and Federal governments are embroiled in a dispute over how much Connecticut spent on welfare programs in 1994, which is the basis for that estimate.
Still, Ms. Beaulieu added, "There's no question we're going to see more money coming into the state next year."
Yet some welfare experts caution that the boost that Connecticut and other states may receive next year is offset by a host of negatives.
Although many states will be getting more from the family assistance block grant, most will be seeing less Federal money for the food stamp and Supplemental Security Income programs. For instance, the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research organization, estimates that Connecticut will lose $286 million over the next six years in Federal assistance to its food stamp program.
Ms. Beaulieu said that seemed high, though the state has not yet determined the impact of the new law on its food stamp recipients.
Welfare analysts also say that while Connecticut and other states may find themselves ahead next year in Federal funding, the new Federal block grant will not grow. In a few years, states may find that they are actually receiving less than they would have if the old reimbursement system had remained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); FAMILY SERVICES (87%); CHILDREN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOOD STAMPS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); STATISTICS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN CLAUDETTE BEAULIEU (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



539 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Orders for Durables Surge, Raising Interest Rate Fears
Orders for durable goods surged 1.6 percent in July. That was considerably more than analysts expected and cast new doubt on assumptions that the economy is slowing from its unsustainably fast pace of the spring.
The broadly based advance, which would have been more than twice as large had it not been for a plunge in orders from the Pentagon, raised fears that the Federal Reserve would push up interest rates fairly soon. That fear was heightened by a report after the close of New York trading that at a policy meeting in early July the Fed had moved toward a bias in favor of monetary tightening. [Page 36.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities fell sharply as a result of the strong economic data. The 30-year bond fell 1 10/32 to a price of 97 15/32 to yield 6.95 percent, up from 6.83 percent on Thursday and the highest since July 31. [38.]
 
Stocks Fall; Dow Off 10.73
The evidence of a robust economy also tripped up stocks. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 10.73 points, to 5,722.74, although it was still up 33.29 points for the week. The S.& P. 500 stock index fell 3.65 points, to 667.03, and the Nasdaq composite index slipped 0.91, to 1,143.05. The interest-rate-sensitive financial sector met some brisk selling. [39.]
 
Fed Proposes Bank Rule Overhaul
The Fed proposed new rules that would make it much easier for banks to make acquisitions and enter new businesses. But they could curb community groups' pressure on banks. [38.]
 
Clinton Unveils Tobacco Curbs
President Clinton unveiled a long list of curbs intended to stop tobacco companies from encouraging young people to smoke. [1.]
 
Jury Favors Tobacco Industry
In a victory for the tobacco industry, an Indianapolis jury refused to award damages to the family of an Indianapolis man who died of lung cancer in 1987. [8.]
 
A Pilot's Fatal Computer Error
American Airlines traced last December's fatal crash in Colombia to a pilot's error in entering a computer code and warned pilots not to let automation take over in flying. [9.]
 
Doctors Find Lucrative Niches
Across the nation, thousands of doctors, frustrated by the price controls, red tape and sometimes intrusive oversight of managed care, are building lucrative practices in fields like cosmetic surgery and infertility treatment, where affluent patients will pay even when their insurers will not. [1.]
 
Humana in Sale to Kaiser
In the latest H.M.O. consolidation, Humana Inc. said that it was selling its Washington network to Kaiser Permanente, the nation's largest not-for-profit H.M.O., and PacifiCare Health Systems said it was considering the sale of its Florida operations. [37.]
 
Abercrombie Plans to Go Public
Abercrombie & Fitch filed to sell 7 million shares for $14 to $16 each in an initial public offering that could raise as much as $112 million. The retailer, which outfitted Teddy Roosevelt and Ernest Hemingway for safari, is a unit of Limited Inc. [36.]
 
Honda's Profit Nearly Quadruples
Honda Motor reported that its first-quarter profit nearly quadrupled, to 45.71 billion yen ($417.4 million) from 11.92 billion yen ($108.9 million) a year earlier, spurred by strong Japanese sales of sport utility vehicles and mini-vans, as well as solid sales in the United States, particularly of the remodeled Civic, and a weaker yen. Sales surged 30 percent. [47.]
 
Settlement for Defrauded Charities
Nonprofit organizations victimized by the Foundation for New Era Philanthropy in the biggest charity fraud in U.S. history will receive as much 65 percent of their invested money back under a $39 million settlement approved by a Federal judge. [39.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,722.74 down 10.73
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.95% up 0.12
The Dollar -- 108.00 yen down 0.20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (80%); AFT (FRA) (80%); HUM (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (80%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (80%); NAICS923130 ADMINISTRATION OF HUMAN RESOURCE PROGRAMS (EXCEPT EDUCATION, PUBLIC HEALTH & VETERANS' AFFAIRS PROGRAMS) (80%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (60%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (50%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (67%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (80%); HUMANA INC (80%); KAISER PERMANENTE (60%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (52%); PACIFICARE HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); INDIANA, USA (67%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STOCK INDEXES (94%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); JURY TRIALS (87%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (86%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (85%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (68%); INSURANCE (67%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); LUNG CANCER (63%); DAMAGES (62%); AIRLINES (61%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (61%); CANCER (61%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (60%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (60%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



540 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1615 words

HEADLINE: As Insurers Cut Fees, Doctors Shift to Elective Procedures

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Dr. Phillip Haeck, a Seattle plastic surgeon, used to spend half his working hours rebuilding the breasts of cancer patients and performing other reconstructive procedures. Then managed-care companies started to cut his fees by 60 percent or more.
So Dr. Haeck switched to cosmetic procedures that insurers do not cover, like breast enlargement. No longer restricted to the $1,980 fee that insurers allowed him for a six- to eight-hour breast restoration, he can now earn $3,800 for inserting saline breast implants, which takes two hours or less. 
 He was surprised by how many women were willing to pay. His income has already recovered, he said, and his working day now ends an hour earlier because he deals with far fewer insurance forms.
Just as Dr. Haeck has done, thousands of doctors, frustrated by the price controls, red tape and sometimes intrusive oversight of managed care, have begun building lucrative practices in fields like cosmetic surgery, correcting myopia with lasers, and infertility treatment, where patients will pay even when insurers will not.
Insurance companies refuse to pay for many of these elective procedures, arguing that they are not medically necessary or are still experimental. But a growing number of Americans are willing to spring for them -- at handsome prices. Indeed, while it used to be assumed that a doctor could charge a higher fee when an insurer was helping to foot the bill, the opposite is now true in many cases. Fees are often far higher than those doctors can charge under managed care for work requiring comparable skill and time.
The doctors increasing their emphasis on such procedures include:
*Physicians doing more cosmetic surgery, including plastic surgeons, dermatologists, ophthalmologists, ear, nose and throat specialists, dentists, gynecologists and general practitioners. Among the most common procedures are breast enlargement; removal of wrinkles, furrows and bags under the eyes; face lifts; nose jobs; hair transplants for men; vein surgery; chemical peels of unsightly skin, and liposuction to remove fatty tissue. The fee for such procedures can range from a few hundred dollars to more than $20,000.
*Ophthalmologists, who typically receive less than half the $2,000 that they used to get for each lens implant for cataract patients, shifting to a new surgery that uses lasers to correct nearsightedness -- and charging $1,500 to $2,000 an eye.
*Some ear, nose and throat specialists -- whose fees have been cut 40 percent to 60 percent under managed care -- now capitalizing on a new technique: using lasers to eliminate snoring by removing tissue from the uvula at the back of the tongue. A typical fee is $2,500.
*Some obstetrician-gynecologists with special training in infertility services now averaging $2,000 and more for in vitro fertilizations.
*Some urologists, whose surgical fees have dropped to $600 from $1,400 for treating enlarged prostate glands, now making a business of penis-enlargement surgery. Those fees range from $4,800 to $7,000.
To be sure, the overwhelming majority of the nation's 650,000 physicians are still deeply enmeshed in managed care and are not reaching out for more lucrative niches like these. But there is wide agreement in the medical community that as the number of procedures that do not qualify for insurance coverage -- and the popularity of such procedures -- grow, a rising number of doctors are making the most of this.
One reason that these specialists can find enough takers paying out of their own pockets is the stunning increase in family income of the wealthiest Americans. The average income for the top 20 percent of households grew to $105,945 in 1994 from $73,754 in 1968, a jump of 44 percent after adjusting for inflation, according to the Census Bureau. That has occurred even as the number of uninsured people grows and as many people see their own medical benefits reduced.
Also, some doctors and patients have found imaginative ways to get insurers to pay part of the bill. Nose jobs can get some insurance coverage if the doctor indicates that the patient has had trouble breathing. Some dermatologists who remove spider veins can get insurers to pay by calling them artery-blocking varicose veins.
The physicians' rush to such procedures is not surprising. Managed care has been cutting the flow of patients and sharply reducing fees for many specialists, notably dermatologists, ophthalmologists, ear, nose and throat specialists, general surgeons, cardiac and vascular surgeons, cardiologists, anesthesiologists and gastroenterologists, said Dr. Richard Doyle, a management consultant in St. Louis with the Milliman & Robertson consulting firm.
No one tracks the number of doctors performing procedures not covered by insurance or how that number has changed, but there are many indications that it is growing. For example, the number of board-certified plastic surgeons rose 75 percent, to 5,200 in 1994, from 2,980 in 1980, according to the latest available surveys by the American Medical Association. And last year 40 percent of plastic surgeons said cosmetic work was now their main business, up from 32 percent in 1991, according to the American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons.
The American Academy of Cosmetic Surgery said the number of commonly performed cosmetic procedures doubled, to 1.09 million, between 1990 and 1994, the latest available year.
Dr. Randal Haworth, a Beverly Hills, Calif., plastic surgeon, said that by concentrating on cosmetic surgery, "We are not held fiscal and emotional hostage by these people in managed care; secondly, by refusing to join their plan, you are not obligated to accept what they pay."
Dr. Haeck, the Seattle plastic surgeon, said he shifted to 90 percent cosmetic surgery from a practice that was half cosmetic and half reconstructive, after price-cutting insurers threatened to reduce his income by 30 percent. For instance, he said, his share of fees for breast reconstruction after cancer surgery dropped to $1,980 from $3,800.
Dr. Haeck resigned from eight managed-care networks, freeing more time for breast-enlargement procedures that he said bring in around $3,800 each.
He hired a marketing expert to, as he put it, "ramp up that side of the business." Dr. Haeck also began giving seminars at a local athletic club and appearing on local television, and he changed his advertisements to feature his cosmetic services.
Dr. Gwendolyn Maxwell Davis, a cosmetic surgeon in Tucson, Ariz., took one look at the field of plastic surgery when she finished her training and decided to devote herself exclusively to cosmetic procedures. She charges $6,000 for a face lift, $4,500 for breast enlargement, and $4,500 for a "tummy tuck." All told, she expects to net $450,000 this year, after only two years in practice.
Another fast-growing niche is infertility treatment. The American Society for Reproductive Medicine reported 32,000 cycles of in vitro fertilization were initiated in 1993, the most recent year for which numbers were available, up 76 percent from 1989. And physicians say that the number has grown significantly since then.
"From a purely financial point of view, I'd rather not have managed care involved," said Dr. Ira Charlip, a San Francisco urologist who specializes in infertility. "I can charge the patient a reasonable amount and they pay 100 percent of it."
Advances in laser technology have opened numerous new medical opportunities as well, many not covered by insurance. Some are cosmetic, like burning off tattoos and age spots, zapping wrinkles and removing hair.
Other procedures, which some insurers cover, include removal of disfiguring birthmarks. New laser procedures are growing much faster than older procedures covered by managed care, Irving Arons, managing director of Spectrum Consulting in Peabody, Mass., said.
"Doctors are looking for new ways of generating revenue," said Larry Haimovitch, a medical technology consultant in San Francisco. "If they can buy a laser machine and pay it back quickly, they do it."
Some of the newest lasers are used to treat myopia by changing the shape of the eyeball. Dr. Frank O'Donnell, a St. Louis ophthalmologist, had encountered big reductions in what insurers allowed for cataract surgery. "It's pretty hard to scramble to replace a 50 percent reduction in reimbursement," he said.
Now, Dr. O'Donnell specializes in laser treatments for myopia at $1,500 to $2,000 an eye. He is also chairman of Lasersight Inc., a start-up company that he said was testing a second-generation laser for myopia.
Dr. O'Donnell laments the changes in the medical business brought on by managed care, and says he worries about whether the most talented doctors will flee to other professions.
"Ophthalmology has gone from being an exciting, very valued specialty to something that is not very desirable anymore," he said. "It's painful -- we used to be able to attract some of the very best doctors."
Mr. Arons of Spectrum Consulting said that there were at least 50 laser vision centers in the country, each with several physicians. He projects 200 centers by the end of the year and a million procedures a year by 2000 at $1,000 each as the price of the equipment comes down -- a $1 billion market.
Dr. Roy Geronemus, director of the Laser and Skin Center of New York, which does both insured and uninsured procedures, said attendance had increased sharply for his course in new laser techniques at New York University Medical Center. Some of his students, he said, are physicians "who are looking for ways to circumvent the constraints on medical practice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Gwendolyn Maxwell Davis, a cosmetic surgeon in Tucson, Ariz., uses a laser to help remove patients' wrinkles, scars and skin blemishes. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)(pg. 12)
 
Chart: "The High Price of Beauty" lists typical surgeon's fees for common cosmetic procedures. (Source: American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (75%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ARIZONA, USA (75%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DOCTORS; PLASTIC SURGERY; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (92%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INSURANCE (91%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (89%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (89%); OTOLARYNGOLOGY (89%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (88%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (88%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (78%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (78%); DERMATOLOGY (78%); CANCER (78%); UROLOGY (78%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (78%); CATARACTS (72%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (70%); PROSTATE DISEASE (69%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT PHILLIP HAECK (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



541 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1965 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS;
Excerpts From Remarks by Dole and Kemp to Black Journalists' Convention

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from remarks by Jack Kemp and Bob Dole yesterday to the annual convention of the National Association of Black Journalists in Nashville, and from the two men's answers to questions that followed, as transcribed by the Federal Document Clearing House, a private company in Washington.
 
 BY JACK KEMP
 
 How can your heart not break in America when you read the account, as I have, of Alex Kotlowitz's story in his book "There Are No Children Here," about the young boys growing up in Henry Horner public housing in Chicago? 
 One little boy was asked by Kotlowitz what he wanted to be when he grew up. He said, "Well, if I grow up, I want to be a bus driver." He didn't say "when I grow up." He said "if I grow up."
We've reached a time, dear friends, when out of mouths of children comes a reality so tragic in America that some adults want to close their ears. We must open our eyes and open our ears and know that if America does not have an answer for that child and for his family, our nation is diminished. And it is my belief, as it is in Bob Dole's soul, that if the Republican Party does not have a heart for that child, our party will be incomplete. . . .
As I told the N.A.A.C.P. convention in Detroit a few years ago, I wasn't there when Rosa Parks took a stand by remaining in her seat on Cleveland Avenue in Montgomery, Ala., in December of 1955. And I wasn't there when my friend John Lewis was beaten, or when Dr. King was in a jail, or marched to Selma.
But I'm here today, and I'm here with Bob Dole to help forge a new civil rights agenda, an agenda of expanded ownership and empowerment, with jobs and educational choice and entrepreneurship, and the equality of opportunity in which any child of God can rise to his or her potential.
My friends, Bob Dole has no tolerance of intolerance, no patience for prejudice. He has a passion for equality. They're deeply rooted in the lessons of his life and the American Dream.
And he and I are committed to creating a new generation of opportunity in America that can be shared by every American man, woman and child, leaving no one behind.
 
 BY BOB DOLE
We've missed opportunities as a party from time to time. I missed one by not going to the N.A.A.C.P. convention. And I'm sorry about that. Our candidate for President in 1964, Barry Goldwater, missed an opportunity by opposing the 1964 Civil Rights Act.
We don't try to miss any opportunities. We're trying to create opportunities. And not long ago, the contest for the votes of black Americans held the answer on who would win the Presidential election.
Republicans and Democrats alike fought for the support of African-Americans, neither party taking it for granted, and neither party writing it off. But these days, we're told that the votes of black Americans are held by the Democrats, and there's little or no chance that Jack Kemp or Bob Dole can do much about it or win a sizable percentage. Now I don't believe for one minute that this is the case.
In my races for the Senate in the state of Kansas, I received 27 to 30-some percent of the black vote in my state. I had the respect of black voters and others who voted against me. And I can think of few better outcomes of this election -- not just for the black community but for all Americans -- than to have Bill Clinton and Al Gore and Bob Dole and Jack Kemp competing, truly competing, for the votes of African-Americans. . . .
I think it was said a long time ago, you go hunting where the ducks are. Or somebody who used to rob banks said, Go where the money is.
The fact is, as Jack has just indicated, we are going to ask for every single vote in America on Nov. 5, 1996. We are going to earn it.
I deeply believe that the Republican Party will never be whole until it earns the broad support of African-Americans and others by speaking to their hopes. And we're going to continue that message day after day after day after day. . . .
As I said in my acceptance speech just a week ago, it has been my goal as long as I've been in politics, and before, to talk about one America, not black Americans, white Americans, or urban Americans, rural Americans.
It's my view that we're going to have success in America if we're together.
And I know of some of the problems, obviously. I don't know as well as many in this audience do and wouldn't profess to know.
But I know that when black soldiers returned from World War II, they came back to a society where discrimination was still the norm. But I really believe the experience of that war changed most of us who were in it forever.
And I became a member of a minority group called the disabled. And I gained an understanding of hardship. And I guess -- I don't -- I hope it's not just because of that -- but those years in the service . . . left me with an abiding conviction.
People who are willing to die or risk their lives for their country must share fully in its rights. That has to be a basic premise in America.
They left me with a simple vision for America. While we cannot guarantee the outcomes in our society, we shall guarantee equality of opportunity. And there can be no doubt that some do not share that conviction or that vision. And while we've made tremendous progress in America since World War II, many black Americans, as well as others, still do not share fully in America's bounties and still lack the opportunities that most others have.
And some believe the solution to these problems is quotas and preferences and set-asides. And I've supported race-based preferences in the past. But over time I realized that preferences created with the best of intentions were dividing America, instead of bringing us or bringing them together.
What I do support and what I do define as real affirmative action is aggressive, determined and persistent recruitment of minorities and women by business, government and universities. It also means identifying barriers to advancement of women and minorities in corporate America, a task performed by the Glass Ceiling Commission created by legislation that I sponsored, that my wife, in fact, advocated when she was Secretary of Labor.
Simply put, I believe in outreach to give people the opportunity to compete, not preset outcomes that determine the results of that competition. This is a line I would preserve in our laws. And I know that there are some on the left and there are some on the right who are losing faith in a common American future. . . . They are convinced that division is our destiny. But we cannot surrender on this point, in my view, because our fragile unity is a source of everything good and noble in our nation.
And as William Julius Wilson writes in his new book, "When Work Disappears: The World of the New Urban Poor," and I quote: "High neighborhood joblessness has a far more devastating effect than high neighborhood poverty. A neighborhood in which people are poor but employed is different from a neighborhood in which people are poor and jobless."
It sort of sums it up. So what do we want to do? We want to unleash the hidden economic potential found everywhere in our society, particularly in the inner cities, and create new jobs. . . .
And in this process I can do just one thing, but it is a big thing, because I now speak for the Republican Party. Bob Dole is the nominee. Jack Kemp is my running mate. We believe our records give us this opportunity maybe the two other nominees would not have had to renew the commitment of the party I lead to these enduring dreams. And together we can make them endure a while longer.
Our goal is a nation with the shared prosperity of a growing economy, a nation where crime is confronted and family is honored and education succeeds for every child, an America without any limitation on opportunity and without the barriers of bigotry. So we've set a high but a simple standard for our success, and we will accept nothing less than a nation that rewards every American and rewards every American dream. . . .
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
Q. What is going to be the economic support system for the inner cities and the poor without the safety net of welfare?
MR. DOLE. I think welfare will be the safety net.
If you take a look at the bill the President's signed, one that we had sent him before, which he vetoed -- pretty much the same -- there's what we call a maintenance-of-effort provision in that bill.
And Congress meets every year, and if I'm President of the United States, and I find that some state is abusing some part of that system ----. There's also about $12 billion in the bill for child care. There's also a $2 billion, what we call an emergency fund. If, let's say, they had a calamity in, say, New York, or Tennessee, where you needed $100 million quick. It's there. . . .
Q. How will you provide jobs for people in the inner city? Where would these jobs come from?
A. When you have economic growth, when you create wealth, you create opportunity. I can give you case after case after case. If you lower the cost of capital for somebody out there -- black, white, Asian, Hispanic -- creating a business or wanting to expand a business, lower the capital gains rate. That's how you create jobs in the private sector.
Q. For generations, white children of white immigrants, regardless of their status, enjoyed citizenship. Now that the new immigrants are black and brown, would you support a constitutional amendment to deny them citizenship?
A. With due respect to the platform, I read a lot of the parts that I thought were essential. I approved a lot of parts that I thought were essential. That was not one of them. I would not support that part of the platform.
Q. What credibility do you now have with African-American voters after turning your back on affirmative action in this mere space of two days?
MR. KEMP. I believe with all my heart that affirmative action is very much needed, but the right kind of affirmative action, small "a," is affirmative efforts to open up the type of educational opportunity, the type of access to credit and capital, the type of access to ownership and housing, the type of an access to the American Dream that every child of God has a right to expect in the United States of America now that the cold war is over, . . .
The greatest goal of this country on the eve of the 21st century is the type of reconciliation to which Bob Dole has committed his life, and I've committed mine.
I'll close with this thought. All government action is affirmative. Some has been right. Bob and I have pointed out some that has been wrong. But we believe, coming here today, as Kweisi Mfume said when he was sworn in as president of the N.A.A.C.P., that the single greatest deterrent to black progress in the United States of America today is the lack of access to capital, credit, ownership, education, and opportunity.
And Kemp and Dole are standing before this vast audience to tell you that we want to open up in this country once again that type of an America in which any man, any woman, of any color, can get that education, get that access to credit and capital, get that housing, get that ownership, and get that which Bob and I have been speaking about.
So that to me is an affirmative action program that goes beyond set-asides or preferences. It goes to the heart of the high moral ground for which we want this country to set a standard. Because I believe with all my heart we cannot preach democracy in East Europe if we're not making it work in east Harlem, and we can't preach democracy for South Africa unless it works in south central L.A. That is my pledge to you, and we will keep that pledge of reaffirming that type of affirmative action for America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF BLACK JOURNALISTS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF BLACK JOURNALISTS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); CIVIL RIGHTS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; KEMP, JACK F JOHN LEWIS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



542 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 24, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
Dole, in Change of Focus, Appeals for Black Votes

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Aug. 23

 BODY:
In a direct and explicit appeal for black support, Bob Dole today declared that the Republican Party had needlessly abandoned black voters to the Democratic Party, and he promised to challenge President Clinton for a bloc of voters who have reliably supported Democrats for more than a generation.
Mr. Dole, speaking to a black journalists' organization here -- the first black audience he has addressed in his 18-month-long campaign, his aides said -- presented what he called a "new civil rights agenda" as he defended his support for ending affirmative action programs. 
 Mr. Dole, who has come to oppose traditional measures to combat discrimination, said his agenda of dealing with the economy, education and crime would ultimately prove best at improving the status of black Americans. He also used renounced a Republican platform plank to withhold citizenship from children of illegal immigrants born in the United States. [Page 10.]
"We will only find support in the black community if Republicans do something simple and rare: We must have the courtesy to ask, and that's exactly what Jack and I want to do today," he told the National Association of Black Journalists. "I can't think of two better outcomes of this election -- not just for the black community, but for all Americans -- than to have Bill Clinton and Al Gore, and Bob Dole and Jack Kemp, compete, truly competing, for the votes of African-Americans."
The Republican Presidential candidate went on to deplore what he called "missed opportunities" by his party. He recalled a time -- apparently referring to the 1950's -- when the major parties had competed for black support. "But these days," he said, "we are told that the votes of black Americans are held by the Democrats."
Mr. Dole expressed regret that he had not spoken at a N.A.A.C.P. convention earlier this summer.
He added, "I deeply believe that the Republican Party will never be whole until it earns the broad support of African-Americans and others by speaking to their hopes."
Looking across a hall of mostly black faces, Mr. Dole recounted growing up in Russell, Kan., a community with few blacks. But he pointed to his World War II experience as the source of his understanding of the difficulties blacks faced in this country -- both because he saw the way returning black soldiers had been discriminated against but also because of a war injury that left his right arm useless.
"And I became a member of a minority group called the disabled," Mr. Dole said. "And I gained an understanding of hardship."
In a rare but brief question-and-answer period with the journalists, Mr. Dole renounced a plank in the Republican Party platform that calls for legislation to prohibit the children of illegal immigrants from becoming naturalized citizens. Mr. Dole rebuffed his party with one word -- "no" -- after a radio reporter from WLIB in New York, Jane Tillman Irving, asked if he agreed with a policy that treated present-day immigrants, many of whom are black and Hispanic, differently from earlier waves of white immigrants.
It remains to be seen how much success Mr. Dole will have in his effort to win black support or what steps he will take to seek the black vote. Mr. Clinton has regularly outpolled Mr. Dole by margins of about 10 to 1 in voter surveys of blacks this year. Since 1976, the highest level of support any Republican has received from black voters, according to exit polls, has been 16 percent, for President Gerald Ford in 1976. His opponent, Jimmy Carter, got 83 percent of the black vote.
But Mr. Dole's challenge could force Mr. Clinton to devote resources and attention to a group of voters that gave him 82 percent of their votes in 1992 after he had done relatively little campaigning to seek their support. Mr. Dole's speech today, combined with Mr. Kemp's intention to campaign in black neighborhoods, could also complicate what has been a central element of Mr. Clinton's electoral strategy: to present himself as a moderate appealing for support among white middle-class voters.
Before Mr. Dole could even leave Washington, a Clinton campaign aide met reporters as they boarded the Dole plane and handed out information criticizing the civil rights legislative records of both Mr. Dole and Mr. Kemp. After the speech, Mr. Clinton's spokesman, Joe Lockhart, pointed out Mr. Dole's change in position on affirmative action and asserted: "Bob Dole has once again showed why he has a credibility problem with Americans."
Arguing that blacks would do better under Republican policies then Democratic ones, Mr. Dole implicitly apologized for the lack of Republican attention to the civil rights struggle.
Mr. Dole said said that Barry Goldwater "missed an opportunity" by opposing the 1964 Civil Rights Act that was pushed through Congress by President Lyndon B. Johnson. Mr. Dole did not note how that action by Mr. Johnson had angered white voters, as Mr. Johnson predicted at the time that it would, and ultimately led to the current Republican dominance in the South in Presidential elections.
Mr. Dole was particularly passionate as he defended his opposition to affirmative action, pounding the lectern as he explained a change in position that had led him from supporting affirmative action to supporting efforts, from the halls of Congress to a pending state initiative in California, that would eliminate it.
"Some believe the solution to these problems is quotas and preferences and set-asides," Mr. Dole said. "And I've supported race-based preferences in the past. But over time, I realized that preferences created with the best of intentions were dividing America." He said what he supported instead was "aggressive, determined and persistent recruitment of minorities and women."
"Simply put, I believe in outreach to give people the opportunity to compete, and not preset outcomes to determine the results of that competition," Mr. Dole said. "This is the line I would preserve in our laws."
Mr. Dole, in explaining his decision in July not to appear before the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said at the time that its president, Kweisi Mfume, was a "very liberal Democrat" who was "trying to set me up" and that he preferred an audience "I can relate to." Today, Mr. Dole and Mr. Kemp received a comparatively restrained reception.
Since Mr. Kemp joined Mr. Dole on the ticket, they have said that Mr. Kemp would campaign for minority votes, and Mr. Kemp has invoked in every speech the names of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Abraham Lincoln. But Mr. Dole and Mr. Kemp have drawn few blacks to rallies this week. Mr. Dole's senior staff includes no black members. Today, he brought along a black woman, Pam Rucker, who had worked as an assistant press secretary for Mr. Dole in the Senate. He pointed to her when a questioner asked for the blacks he turns to for advice.
And Mr. Kemp was challenged about switching his position to conform with Mr. Dole's opposition to affirmative action.
Jesse Jackson, the black leader and Democrat who has often criticized Mr. Clinton's positions on civil rights issues, suggested today that he was doubtful about what Mr. Dole and Mr. Kemp were trying to do. "Republicans are still doing more in symbolism and gestures than substance," Mr. Jackson said.
In Mr. Dole's address, he sought common ground with his audience today. He said that while he was recovering in a hospital in Battle Creek, Mich., he had seen blood marked "black blood." He said that when he voted in Congress for the Civil Rights Act of 1964, members had come up to him to ask how many blacks lived in his district. "Well, not many," he said. (In Kansas, 5.8 percent of the residents are black). He spoke about how he had managed, legislation establishing Dr. King's birthday as a national holiday.
"Democratic leaders simply assume ownership of the African-American vote, and we're not going to let that happen," Mr. Dole said. "We're going to fight for it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a speech to the National Association of Black Journalists in Nashville, Bob Dole appealed yesterday for the support of black voters. Arthur Fennel, president of the journalists' group, is at left. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. 10); Bob Dole spoke with Arthur Fennel of the black journalists' group. (Associated Press)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF BLACK JOURNALISTS ACP (BELGIUM) (52%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF BLACK JOURNALISTS REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BLACKS POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (71%); CITIZENSHIP (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (53%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; DOLE, BOB; KEMP, JACK F; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



543 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: FUNDS WATCH;
Playing 'Beat the Index'? This Time, You Might Win

BYLINE: BY CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
There are plenty of reasons to own a fund that tracks the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, and they may have seemed particularly compelling in recent years. Just buy the market, proponents argue, and after 10 years you will beat 70 percent of managed mutual funds and have fewer fund distributions to cope with. How can you go wrong?
You can go wrong if your index fund pays too much for the stocks, argues Jack Bowers, who edits Fidelity Monitor, an independent newsletter in Rocklin, Calif, that follows Fidelity funds. And the S.& P. 500 is too expensive, Mr. Bowers says, based on the theory that a stock is overpriced if its price-to-earnings ratio exceeds its long-term earnings growth rate. The S.& P. 500's price-to-earnings ratio is 19, well above its 10-year earnings growth of about 9 percent. 
 There are, in fact, many expensive stocks in the index's top 25, including Coca-Cola, Microsoft and Merck. And the huge valuations are a result of too much money chasing the index stocks lately, he wrote in the July issue of his newsletter. The premiums are not justified, he contends, and at some point, the market will recognize that many mid-cap, small-cap and foreign companies offer better values.
Mr. Bowers concludes that the S.& P. 500 could be on the verge of a long dry spell, compared with other market segments.
Here is his prediction: Japan and Europe, which have been struggling with increases in unemployment and stalled deregulation, will succeed in their current campaigns to revive their economies through deficit spending and low interest rates. Then their government debt will get out of hand, as it did in the United States in the mid-1980's. As world financial markets react, the dollar will rise against both the German mark and the Japanese yen. Foreign revenues will then fall for companies doing business overseas, putting earnings pressure on many large multinational companies in the S.& P.
Eventually, he says, disenchanted indexers will move back to actively managed funds, as most begin to beat the index.
To avoid the current pitfall of paying too much for an index fund, Mr. Bowers recommends going with actively managed funds that use a value approach to picking index stocks, sidestepping the more expensive ones. Two such funds: Fidelity Value and Fidelity Equity-Income. He also likes a growth portfolio of four Fidelity funds: Emerging Markets, Low-Priced Stock, Value and Contrafund.
If you must index, he says, use a mix of mid-cap, small-cap and overseas index funds from Vanguard, an inexpensive indexer.
 
Performance Data: How Old Is Too Old?
Ten years ago, it was difficult to find basic mutual fund performance data. Now most daily newspapers devote many pages to performance statistics, magazines are full of mutual fund articles and portfolio managers appear frequently on television.
Still, much of the basic information shareholders must use for investment decisions is "hopelessly old and out of touch," Amy C. Arnott, editor of Morningstar Mutual Funds, wrote in a recent editorial.
The Securities and Exchange Commission, she noted, forces funds to disclose portfolio information only twice a year, and few funds do more than that. At Morningstar, the Chicago fund researchers, only about 10 percent of the funds in the company's data base report to their shareholders quarterly.
In addition, the quality of survey information that fund companies send to financial publications varies widely. Investors can call a fund directly to request updated portfolios, but few companies will send them.
That raises a fiduciary issue, as more investors are relying on professional planners who lack the information they need to do the best job possible.
The fund companies argue that the cost of printing and mailing quarterly or monthly reports would cut into shareholder returns. But Ms. Arnott counters that improvements in technology have made the costs much smaller. Moreover, the companies could provide monthly portfolios at extremely low costs by filing them electronically on the S.E.C. system called Edgar, for Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval.
Another industry objection, Ms. Arnott said, is that more-frequent portfolio information would attract short-sellers and market timers. But with thousands of traders already watching for significant buyers and sellers, she asks, why would reports that certain funds owned certain securities at a certain date make a difference?
For its part, the industry says that releasing portfolio information more than twice a year would require funds to reveal their trading strategies, which would, in effect, harm fund shareholders. Moreover, publicly reporting portfolio information would be "misleading because funds are actively managed and the portfolios change from day to day," said a spokeswoman for the Investment Company Institute, the Washington trade group.
As for Ms. Arnott's argument that when the market gets rough, unknowing investors are likely to bail out at inopportune times, the I.C.I. spokeswoman cited a study that found that a majority of shareholders expect to hold their investments for the long term.
 
New Managers
Mario Gabelli is the new sub-adviser to the Enterprise Small Company Portfolio and Enterprise Accumulation Trust Small Cap Portfolio, replacing Fisher Investments and Opcap Advisers, respectively.
Van Harissis, associate portfolio manager of Phoenix Small Cap, has taken the reins of Phoenix Growth from Bill Newman, the chief investment strategist for Phoenix Duff & Phelps, who was running the fund on an interim basis. Matthew Considine, an analyst with Phoenix Duff & Phelps, has taken over Phoenix Mid Cap (formerly called Phoenix Capital Appreciation) from John Wilson, who left the firm.
 
In Brief
IBC Financial Data has a money fund monitoring service on the Internet (http://www.ibcdata.com) that provides seven-day simple yields daily for 10 categories of taxable and tax-exempt money funds, weekly yield rankings by category, as well as portfolio composition and other data intended for money fund professionals. It is available without charge through September; the annual rate is $1,800 thereafter.
Prudential Securities has extended to Sept. 30 its program waiving the annual I.R.A. custodial fee for rollovers or transfers of more than $25,000. To become eligible, investors must transfer or roll over the money from an existing individual retirement account or employer-sponsored retirement plan to a Prudential I.R.A.
The Kemper Retirement Plans Group has added outside funds to its 401(k) program for small businesses, the company said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "At the Head of a Class" lists several stocks that are among the 25 biggest companies by capitalization in the Standard & Poor's 500. (Source: Fidelity Minitor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (85%); COCA-COLA CO (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; MUTUAL FUNDS STOCK INDEXES (98%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); INDEX FUNDS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); DEREGULATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); GERMAN MARK (66%); EMERGING MARKETS (63%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE JACK BOWERS (77%); AMY C ARNOTT (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



544 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 3; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: CUTTINGS;
In This Garden, Hardy Cyclamens Are the Muses

BYLINE: By Anne Raver 

 BODY:
Nancy Goodwin saw her first hardy cyclamen in Surrey, England, more than 20 years ago.
"We were sitting by a large rock, and here was this incredible plant," Mrs. Goodwin said. "The flower was so elegant, and it looked so small against the great big rock." 
 It was Cyclamen hederifolia, a hardy species with delicate pink or white flowers that rise, one to a five-inch stem, long before the leaves appear. Its petals are thrown back, so the flowers look a bit like gossamer butterflies hovering low to the earth. When the leaves finally appear, they can be rounded or lance-shaped and are often swirled with silver.
No wonder she was smitten.
"I got some seeds from Thompson & Morgan and started them when we got back to North Carolina," said Mrs. Goodwin, a plantswoman known for her Montrose Nursery.
In 1977, she and her husband, Craufurd, who teaches economics at Duke University, moved to an estate called Montrose, on the outskirts of Hillsborough, N.C., about 14 miles west of Durham. They were taken with the big white 19th-century house, but it was the towering oaks and metasequoias, the old beeches and magnolias and a serpentine boxwood border that won their hearts. There was an enormous vegetable garden south of the house, and woods sloping down to a stream that fed a pond.
"My father always said the best dirt was Hillsborough clay loam," Mrs. Goodwin said last Sunday afternoon over dinner.
The trees and boxwoods had been planted by William Alexander Graham, who bought the place in 1830.
"He served as Governor, and Senator, and Secretary of the Navy under Millard Fillmore," Mr. Goodwin said. "He was the one who sent Commodore Perry to Japan to open up the port -- and he came back bearing plants. We think the lycoris in the rock garden is one of them."
But to get back to that first cyclamen in Surrey, it began an adventure with rare and endangered plants that Mrs. Goodwin soon turned into Montrose Nursery.
"I wanted to grow all of the 19 species of cyclamens," said Mrs. Goodwin, who has 18 thriving in her garden. "But when I tried to import some of the plants from England, I got stopped at customs because of the Cites requirements for endangered plants."
Cites, or the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species, was trying to stop the tide of millions of cyclamen tubers, illegally collected in the wild in Turkey, from being sold in the United States.
The situation gave Mrs. Goodwin a mission: "I started building up my collection from seeds," she said.
At the time, Mrs. Goodwin was giving piano and harpsichord lessons to uninspired students.
"I wanted to be in the garden," she said. "It's a magnet. And I thought that having a nursery would get me out of the music room and into the garden."
So in 1984, she sent out a mimeographed plant list to about 25 friends. "I had a lot of cyclamens and some heat-tolerant primulas I'd stumbled on," she said. "And I'd also rooted cuttings from the old boxwoods."
By 1993, Mrs. Goodwin's low-key catalogue (no pictures, just honest descriptions of plants by the one who loved them) was a near bible for serious gardeners.
And Montrose was becoming a kind of mecca for plant lovers, who would wander with their notebooks down the dianthus walk. Thyme-like flowers of Calamintha nepeta lounge among old-fashioned pinks with names like Essex Witch and Agatha, ranging in color from satiny pink to salmon and burgundy, white and crimson.
Visitors might head for the cyclamens growing beneath the venerable magnolia, or the deodar cedar, or explore the hellebores and heucheras and epimediums that thrive beneath the shade of the oaks that lead to the rock garden. Or maybe they would head past the serpentine boxwood border to a tumble of sun-loving perennials, from New England asters in shades of white, pink and purple, to verbena bonariensis, butterfly bushes, magenta waves of Petunia integrafolia, blue-gray plectranthus, purple barberry, deep-violet ironweed, salvias of all kinds and colors, purple-leafed cannas and tall smoke trees.
Tall white lilies (Lilium formosanum) have naturalized all over this sunny garden, and down a few stairs, where melons once grew, is a blue and yellow garden stuffed with lespedezas, caryopteris, blue fescues and limegrass, helianthus and rudbeckias and countless other plants.
But the nursery became too successful, and Mrs. Goodwin said she was "working night and day filling orders and packing up the plants." Managing a nursery didn't leave much time for being in the garden.
And in 1992, one of her dearest helpers, Jo Petty, died in a car crash.
"She was 19," said Mrs. Goodwin, 60. "I thought of all the things she would have done -- and all the things I wanted to do. I think that, more than anything, is what made me close the nursery."
So in 1993, Mrs. Goodwin stopped putting out her catalogue. But the inveterate plant lover still sells a limited number of plants to visitors, and the garden is open for tours, at $6 a person, Tuesdays through Thursdays. She also gives seminars on propagation and design with her colleagues, Doug Ruhren and Gabrielle McDermit. But call first for an appointment; (919) 732-7787.
"I don't like coming home and finding people strolling across the lawn," said Mrs. Goodwin, who treasures her privacy -- and time with her plants.
 
From Seedlings To Success
Here's how Nancy Goodwin starts cyclamen from seed: Soak the seeds for 6 to 24 hours in warm water, then drain. (Best results can be expected from sowing fresh seeds, in which case no soaking is required.) Plant in a gritty mix, covering with about a quarter-inch of soil or grit. Place the pots in total darkness. Germination should begin in about six weeks. Move them into the light as soon as the seeds germinate, and let the young seedlings grow for about a year. Then, transplant into the garden in a well-drained, semi-shady spot. Most cyclamens like to stay dry, so don't kill them by overwatering.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nancy Goodwin in her garden at Montrose, near Hillsborough, N.C. (Karen Tam for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (71%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HILLSBOROUGH (NC); ENGLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); TURKEY (71%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING; CYCLAMEN (PLANT) GARDENING (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); SMUGGLING (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (70%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); GOVERNORS (65%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (64%); NAVIES (63%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, NANCY; RAVER, ANNE NANCY GOODWIN (97%); MONTROSE NURSERY (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



545 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MANHATTAN UP CLOSE;
Pact Could Quiet Helicopter War

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The air war between helicopter operators and Manhattan residents appears to be on the verge of an armistice. After nearly six months of sparring, the main operators, National Helicopter and Liberty Helicopter, have drafted a tentative agreement to make their routes higher than before, mainly over water and away from most Upper West Side, Upper East Side and midtown residential areas.
The Federal Aviation Administration now has the agreement under review, but, barring some conflict with aviation rules or a last-minute objection by the parties, the pact will go into effect on Sept. 3. A spokeswoman for Peter McGann, president of National Helicopter, said that no helicopter operator has signed the agreement. 
 Meanwhile, the choice of a new operator for Manhattan's busiest heliport, at 34th Street and the East River, is still up in the air. So, too, are the sharp reductions in the number of hours, takeoffs and landings mandated by the City Council in March.
In a lawsuit filed in Federal District Court in May, the current operator, National Helicopter, argued that the City Council did not have the authority to impose the restrictions, which the company described as unconstitutional and arbitrary. National's lease expired on July 31, but it plans to make a bid to continue as the new operator.
Last year, there were nearly 141,000 takeoffs and landings at Manhattan's four principal heliports, averaging nearly 400 a day, according to a study by the Economic Development Corporation.
Residents had accused operators of flying as low as 500 feet; operators denied this. "But we meant what we said," said Matthew S. Zuccaro, an official with the Eastern Region Helicopter Council, a Newark trade group that coordinated the helicopter operators' side of the negotiations. "We are committed to working with the community."
Perry Luntz, a member of Community Board 6 whose Turtle Bay neighborhood has complained about helicopter noise, said, "The agreement does not go far enough, and I have to approach it with a grain of salt, but it is a great improvement."
Under the agreement, which was negotiated with the help of Borough President Ruth W. Messinger's office, National and Liberty will fly at least 100 feet higher than the 1,400 feet now required.
But Thomas Bock, an F.A.A. official specializing in helicopter-noise disputes, said: "What is significant about this agreement is that 1,500 feet is a minimum altitude based on jet traffic above that level. It could be as high as 2,000 feet," which would result in a substantial reduction in noise.
The operators agreed to fly north over the East River, instead of over Second Avenue, then west across Central Park at 86th Street, instead of anywhere in the park. Activists like Marnie Mueller said operators flew as far north as 106th Street and as far south as 59th, as well as along Fifth Avenue. The operators denied the charge.
The operators also agreed to establish a toll-free complaint line, (888) 374-2463, which is now operational, and to give a distinctive paint scheme to Liberty and National's helicopters to make identification easier. ANTHONY RAMIREZ

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL HELICOPTER; LIBERTY HELICOPTER 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (50%); FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HELICOPTER; LIBERTY HELICOPTER FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS; NOISE HELICOPTERS (94%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); CIVIL AVIATION (77%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (76%); CITIES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); LITIGATION (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



546 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 4019 words

HEADLINE: The Dark Side of a Magical Metal

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER 

 BODY:
AROUND 1986, Dr. Lee Newman and fellow researchers in Denver got the first warnings of a troubling discovery: A workplace illness thought to have been largely defeated was flourishing.
The resurgent health threat was chronic beryllium disease, or C.B.D., a potentially fatal lung ailment that afflicts only the small minority of people whose immune systems are susceptible to beryllium, apparently because of their genetic makeup. Beryllium, a naturally occurring metal, is used to make components and alloys for car ignition systems, computers, spacecraft and nuclear bombs. 
 In the 20 years leading up to Dr. Newman's findings, only a handful of C.B.D. cases among workers were reported annually to health authorities.
But as researchers began to examine workers in factories and clinics, they discovered that hundreds of them either had symptoms of C.B.D., also known as berylliosis, or had immune reactions to the presence of beryllium, a process that can lead to development of the disease.
"Every place we are looking for the disease, we are finding it," Dr. Newman said in a recent interview. A pulmonologist, he specializes in occupational and environmental medicine at the National Jewish Center for Immunology and Respiratory Medicine in Denver.
Many trails in this medical mystery lead back to Brush Wellman Inc., a Cleveland-based company that is the leading producer of beryllium in the United States and whose stock has a value of $325 million on the New York Stock Exchange. For nearly 50 years, Brush Wellman has maintained that Federal workplace standards on beryllium exposure were sufficient to protect workers against C.B.D. Today, company officials acknowledge that exceptions to that rule may exist, but they say they only began to suspect so in recent years.
Scores of documents recently disclosed in mounting litigation against Brush Wellman tell a far more complex story. They provide a window into how a company, seeing a profitable product threatened, can turn its energies not only to solving that dilemma quickly but also to defending a scientific line in the sand and limiting its liabilities. The Brush Wellman problems also illustrate what other companies might face as researchers increasingly find that some workers, because of their genetic makeup, are susceptible to occupational ills.
For two decades, Brush Wellman disputed reports that workers were being sickened by beryllium at minimal exposures and, in one case, did not tell regulators about those findings, court documents indicate. With the number of C.B.D. cases growing and a company consultant questioning the adequacy of Federal exposure limits, a top company executive told Brush Wellman directors in 1990 that maintaining Federal standards as the legal authority on beryllium's toxicity was essential to "successfully defending" the company against lawsuits, according to a copy of the presentation. Brush Wellman also considered genetic testing to screen out vulnerable employees; in recent years those workers affected by beryllium exposure have had to make painful decisions about whether to quit.
Brush Wellman officials deny that they did anything wrong and maintain that for decades they have been at the forefront of C.B.D. research. And independent scientists say they have seen a new openness in management in recent years.
But some company executives acknowledge that with the re-emergence of C.B.D., Brush Wellman has been forced to be much more aggressive in trying to learn how workers are sickened by beryllium.
"This is something that concerns us all greatly," said Martin B. Powers, a former vice president at Brush Wellman and currently a member of the Beryllium Industry Scientific Advisory Panel, a consulting group principally financed by the company.
The workers exposed to beryllium are far fewer than those affected by asbestos exposure. Nonetheless, some of their stories appear to be equally tragic.
As for exposure outside the workplace, experts say that finished products containing beryllium do not pose health threats to consumers; it is an industrial threat.
In an annual filing recently to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Brush Wellman said it was a defendant in numerous lawsuits filed by employees, former employees and employees of customers claiming health problems from beryllium exposure. Timothy Reed, a company spokesman, said several of those actions, including one that sought class-action status, were recently dismissed. About 14 lawsuits, filed largely by employees of industrial customers, are pending, he said.
Beryllium, which is extracted from ore and processed into various forms, is an extraordinary material, lighter than aluminum and six times stiffer than steel. But this magical metal has a treacherous aspect; the 1 to 5 percent of the population that is genetically susceptible can have a devastating immunological reaction.
The reaction involves the same biological phenomena that occur in allergies like hay fever. But exposure to beryllium dust in those who have become sensitized to it can lead to a buildup of scar tissue in the lungs that can reduce their capacity to process oxygen and ultimately result in death.
While most people can tolerate beryllium, others can be laid low by minute traces of it. In 1980, for instance, a furnace exploded at Brush Wellman's plant in Elmore, Ohio, severely burning Carolyn Mason's husband and coating him with beryllium dust. Mrs. Mason said she had nursed him at home.
"For days, I cleaned this stuff out of his skin and his hair," Mrs. Mason said.
Her husband, who still works at the Elmore plant, has not developed C.B.D. But the cost of Mrs. Mason's exposure to much smaller doses of the metallic dust became apparent in 1989. She said she experienced severe rib pain and eventually was sent to see Dr. Newman after she had been misdiagnosed several times. She soon learned she had C.B.D., for which there is no known cure.
In an effort to control the disease, she now takes steroids, which can have severe side effects, and she must be on an oxygen unit 24 hours a day. "I'll never be off of it," said Mrs. Mason, who eventually sued Brush Wellman. The case was settled out of court for an undisclosed sum, she said.

A Disease Seems to Disappear
Recognizing beryllium's extreme toxicity, Federal officials set a tough workplace standard in 1949, limiting average workday exposure to the metal to two micrograms per cubic meter of air, the equivalent of dispersing the dust from a lead pencil's tip evenly through a six-foot-high box the size of a football field.
The results were dramatic. Cases of acute beryllium poisoning, a disease bought on quickly by extremely high exposures to the material, disappeared and, by the early 1960's, the more insidious cases of C.B.D. appeared to slow to a trickle. Brush Wellman officials were so confident of the Federal standard's effectiveness that they repeatedly declared in the mid-1980's that only three C.B.D. cases had been found among company employees hired after 1960.
"We thought the problem was largely licked," said Merril Eisenbud, a professor emeritus at New York University Medical Center who became a paid consultant to Brush Wellman around 1990.
But even as they were declaring victory over the disease in the 1980's, Brush Wellman officials had reason to suspect that all might not be as it seemed. Fully a decade earlier, they had received a study from a Japanese researcher that raised troubling questions about the Federal standards.
Dr. Shogo Shima, a medical consultant to NGK Industries, a Japanese beryllium producer, reported that he had found five Japanese workers with advanced cases of C.B.D. whose earlier exposures to beryllium had apparently been below the American limit.
The company received the report in 1974. Shortly after, Mr. Shima met with top managers, including Mr. Powers, and reiterated his findings, according to court documents. And yet, in testimony three years later at a Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration hearing, top company officials declared that they did not know of a single study that had detected C.B.D. in workers who had been exposed to beryllium levels below the Federal limit.
In an interview, Mr. Powers said he and others had not mentioned the Japanese findings during the inquiry, largely because the hearing had focused on beryllium's cancer threat rather than on C.B.D. He added that company officials also believed that Dr. Shima's research methodology was faulty.
"At that time we didn't take this very seriously," Mr. Powers said, referring to Dr. Shima's work.
But that work may hold the answer to the riddle of why C.B.D. seemingly disappeared in this country, only to reappear: a lack of routine follow-up testing of exposed workers. Dr. Shima said NGK began giving regular follow-up physicals to retired employees in the mid-1970's. Such monitoring is necessary to chart the course of the disease, in his opinion, because C.B.D. can lie dormant for so long. In addition, C.B.D. symptoms can be easily confused with those of other respiratory illnesses.
Brush Wellman, however, did not give former workers such regular follow-up exams. Instead, it encouraged them to get in touch with the company if they experienced health problems, Mr. Powers said.
"Beyond that, the responsibility was on the former employee," he said.

Better Tests Emerge
In the mid-1980's, just as Brush Wellman was celebrating C.B.D.'s supposed eradication, events were already unfolding that would shatter that assumption.
Around 1985, Dr. Kathleen Kreiss, a colleague of Dr. Newman who was then at the National Jewish Center, received a call from the medical department at the Rocky Flats nuclear-weapons plant outside Denver. The question for her was simple: Could pregnant employees at the plant who faced dangers from radiation exposure be safely shifted to areas where beryllium was used?
At the time, Dr. Newman was experimenting with a refined beryllium blood test on laboratory animals. In response to the inquiry from Rocky Flats, he and Dr. Kreiss administered it to workers there.
The test, though not 100 percent accurate, allowed the researchers to screen large numbers of people for early signs of C.B.D. rather than wait for years for severe symptoms to develop. In cases where the blood test indicated a problem, a lung test was performed to detect disease.
"We realized we didn't have to wait 10 years" to find C.B.D., said Dr. Kreiss, now a professor of occupational medicine at the University of Colorado.
Dr. Kreiss and Dr. Newman initially found a cluster of several Rocky Flats workers with C.B.D. The tests continued, and to date have identified about 200 workers at Department of Energy facilities with blood or chest abnormalities associated with beryllium exposure, including more than 50 cases of full-fledged C.B.D., according to Federal statistics.
After the first Rocky Flats data were made public in the late 1980's, the Coors Ceramics Company, a unit of ACX Technologies Inc. that purchased beryllium from Brush Wellman, took up the question of whether to test its employees. But Beverly Obenchain, a former director of environmental health and safety at Coors, said that when she asked Brush Wellman officials for their opinion, their reaction was cautious.
"Brush was concerned that we could give validity to Lee's test because it was the new test on the block," Ms. Obenchain recalled. "It was very difficult for me to understand. It would definitely increase costs but in the long run it might minimize treatments." Coors did test and found nine cases of C.B.D. among current and former employees.
Robert H. Rozek, senior vice president for Brush Wellman's international operation, said the company had legitimate concerns about the test's accuracy. But by 1989, Mr. Eisenbud, the Brush Wellman adviser, was also questioning the Federal standard, pointing to C.B.D. cases among secretaries and other employees who spent little time in factories, court documents indicate. He soon told other Brush Wellman consultants that he "knew of no other occupational illness with so many cases in clerical rather than production workers," according to minutes of that meeting.
In retrospect, some Government officials said they believed that some evidence questioning the Federal standard had emerged years ago. For example, Dr. Tara O'Toole, the Department of Energy's assistant secretary for environment, safety and health, said 10 workers at Government nuclear weapons plants had immunological reactions to beryllium even though their jobs apparently did not bring them into direct contact with the material. "It was probably clear by the late 1980's and early 1990's that the existing standard was not protecting workers," Dr. O'Toole said.
 
A Company on the Defensive
Brush Wellman officials were also becoming aware that the problem was worse than they had thought. Diagnosed cases of C.B.D. within the company had also started to swell, including some at a relatively new plant in Tucson, Ariz., considered to have up-to-date safety equipment.
With questions building over the Federal standards, the mood within the company grew increasingly defensive, and officials dug in to protect their principal product, ward off lawsuits and limit liabilities, court papers indicate.
In 1990, Brush Wellman executives told the company's board that preventing any tightening of the Federal exposure standard was "fundamental to our defense against product liability lawsuits," according to a presentation made at that meeting. And despite mounting scientific evidence to the contrary, company officials continued to tell customers in 1991 that the standard appeared to protect even the most "hypersensitive" workers.
Brush Wellman officials had long argued that their confidence in the standard was based on two related and, they contended, unrefuted premises. The first was that any worker who developed C.B.D. had been suddenly exposed to higher-than-allowed beryllium levels, either through equipment failure or carelessness. The other was that no one had shown that a worker who had been exposed solely to conditions that fell within the Federal standard had developed C.B.D.
There appear to be several problems with the company's contentions. For one, Mr. Eisenbud said it seemed highly unlikely that every case of C.B.D. suffered by a secretary or other nonfactory employee could be attributable to a sudden, high exposure to beryllium, given the rarity of their contact with it.
Also, no one really knows at what level the disease process can be initiated. The company's own executives acknowledged in an interview that they could not measure with accuracy the exposure to the metal by workers with C.B.D. because such exposure occurs years before the disease appears.
"There was no way of knowing what the actual exposure level of an individual was," Mr. Powers said.
Further muddying the scientific debate over safety was another little-mentioned factor. Brush Wellman apparently had little idea of the extent of the beryllium contamination inside its own factories, according to a 1989 report by a panel of the National Research Council, which advises the Government on science and technology issues.
The group, sponsored jointly by the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering, also questioned the Federal standard's safety.
"Sufficient and accurate background exposure data are lacking" in beryllium production facilities, the report found. "These would provide a sound scientific data base for establishing recommended exposure limits."

The Liability Issues
By 1990, it was becoming increasingly clear to Brush Wellman officials that they would have to deal with a new generation of workers affected by beryllium exposure, court papers indicated.
In the past, Brush Wellman had supplemented the salary of an employee unable to work because of C.B.D. until retirement age. But now, with a test able to detect blood abnormalities and other early signs of the disease, the company faced new questions, including how to compensate afflicted workers who were not disabled.
Experts like Dr. Newman and Dr. Kreiss did not know whether removing affected workers from further contact with beryllium would affect the progress of C.B.D., but they, like other doctors, believed that it was the medically prudent course. Still, as the two Denver doctors in 1991 laid plans to conduct a large-scale health screening of Brush Wellman workers, company executives apparently had their own thoughts, court papers indicate.
In a strategic plan presented at a 1991 board meeting, one item advocated efforts to "pre-empt" doctors' recommendations to C.B.D. sufferers to avoid any further beryllium exposure. "Such a process attacks the efficacy of the existing standard," the document states.
Mr. Rozek said the company was concerned at the time that if many doctors who had little knowledge about C.B.D. recommended that their patients stop working, such suggestions could be misperceived as evidence that the standard was not working.
The refined blood test also had other implications: The potential cost of compensating all the workers diagnosed with the disease, as opposed to those actually disabled by it, could open a financial black hole, company officials worried.
To avoid that, they established a limited compensation policy: Employees who showed blood abnormalities or other signs of early-stage C.B.D. would receive up to one year in salary and benefits if they left the company and would qualify for full health care benefits if they later became unable to work because of the disease. Workers like Galen Lemke of Elmore, who had left the company before 1993 without any symptoms, might qualify for small cash payments if they ultimately came down with the disease, but those were not guaranteed.
"To lock yourself into a commitment to a policy to an unknown population didn't make economic sense to us," said Daniel A. Skoch, the company's vice president for human resources and administration.
Dr. Newman said he is now conducting a Government-financed study to determine what percentage of beryllium-sensitized workers will develop C.B.D. In those studied so far, the ratio was about 1 of every 4 affected workers.
With such uncertainty hanging over them, Brush Wellman workers recently faced difficult decisions when the results of their tests became known. At the company's Elmore plant, surrounded by farmland 30 miles east of Toledo, 6 of the 50 workers who had become sensitized to beryllium or showed early disease symptoms decided to take the company's severance package last year, even though that meant giving up some of the highest wages in the area.
Mr. Reed, the company spokesman, said the majority of cases had occurred among company workers handling pure beryllium metal or ceramic materials rather than beryllium copper, which accounts for the majority of the company's sales. Christine Toth, who worked in secretarial and clerical jobs for Brush Wellman for 16 years, said she decided to leave because of health concerns after a test last year showed that she had become sensitized to beryllium. But like other former company employees, she quickly became concerned about discrimination by insurers or prospective employers who learned of the test results.
"When I first started looking for a new job I told the truth about the test and no one would hire me," said Ms. Toth, whose lawsuit against Brush Wellman was dismissed this year, before trial. "But when I stopped telling the truth, I got the job."

The Lingering Questions
Today, Brush Wellman officials, while emphasizing their belief that the Federal standard is safe for most people, said they were reducing exposure levels at their facilities to the lowest feasible levels. And researchers like Dr. Kreiss are evaluating why certain processes pose particularly high risk to workers.
Hovering in the background is another big issue: whether genetic testing should be used to screen out people susceptible to a workplace hazard before they are hired.
The issue goes beyond beryllium. Some workers, apparently because of their genetic makeup, are also suspectible to airborne particles in the workplace like cotton dust and some chemicals.
Advocates of genetic screening say that tests could be used to identify susceptible individuals and keep them out of harm's way -- and possibly off payrolls. But many scientists, labor leaders and ethicists have decried the use of genetic screening in the workplace, arguing it is discriminatory and that companies have an obligation to make conditions safe for all workers.
For years, Brush Wellman financed research to develop a genetic test, court papers indicate. And in 1992, its hopes were apparently so high that actuarial projections were run to show the impact of genetic testing on future C.B.D.-related costs to the company, the court documents indicate.
A test of 35 workers with C.B.D. found that 34 shared a specific genetic marker. There was, however, a complicating factor: A similar test of workers without C.B.D. found that about one of every three had the same marker.
Dr. Cesare Saltini, the test's developer, said the results indicated that the test alone was not suitable as a screening tool. But he said he believed it might prove helpful to understand the biological mechanism of C.B.D. and other occupational ills, a project that Brush Wellman officials say they continue to support.
"We are looking at beryllium as a model to look at allergies to metals and chemicals," said Dr. Saltini, a professor at the University of Modena in Italy.
Dealing with the re-emergence of C.B.D. appears to have been a sobering experience for some Brush Wellman officials. Dr. Kreiss said, for example, that after a change in company management in the early 1990's she noticed a change in Brush Wellman's attitude toward its beryllium problem and a receptiveness to new ideas.
Brush Wellman's stock price has fallen steadily over the last decade. One analyst said that he had dropped coverage of the company recently, dismayed by its slow pace of profit growth rather than because of concerns about litigation. "In terms of litigation, I did not factor that in as one of the great problems," said the analyst, Kemp Fuller Jr. of LT Lawrence & Company.
A spokesman for OSHA said that the agency did not have any immediate plans to revise the beryllium standard but that it continues to review new scientific data as they become available. For its part, the Energy Department, which initially considered cutting the OSHA standard in half at its facilities, expects to issue a rule next year requiring that beryllium exposure be limited to the lowest feasible level and that all exposed workers wear respirators, Dr. O'Toole said.
Mr. Eisenbud, who helped create the original Federal standard nearly 50 years ago, says that he believes it can still serve as a target for employers but that there is plenty of anecdotal evidence that it may not be safe for everyone. He also says he believes the Federal Government has largely forsaken its role in conducting the necessary scientific research to resolve the debate.
"Though 50 years, this has been a scientific mystery," Mr. Eisenbud said. "There is no other toxic substance that would not come under control when you applied standards of industrial hygiene to it."
For his part, Dr. Newman, who has agreed to testify against Brush Wellman as an expert witness on behalf of his patients, sees other lessons in the episode. He said he did not believe that Brush Wellman fit a cardboard stereotype of corporate wrongdoing. But he added that he thought company officials in the past reacted to their dilemma as other executives elsewhere had done and as other companies undoubtedly would do again in the future.
"There were plenty of red flags along the line," he said. "They didn't react quickly to those red flags and that only compounded the problem."

GRAPHIC: Photos: After being exposed to beryllium, which is toxic to some people, Galen Lemke, from left, Carolyn Mason and Gary Renward depend on portable oxygen supplies.; Beryllium is used to make industrial components and alloys. A copper beryllium strip is checked at the Brush Wellman Inc. plant in Elmore, Ohio. (pg. 1); An employee works with a beryllium copper tube at a Brush Wellman factory in Ohio. (Peter Yates for The New York Times) (pg. 8)
 
Chart/Graph: "AT A GLANCE: Brush Wellman" shows the financial indicators of the leading producer of beryllium in the United States; monthly closing since Jan. '85 through Aug. 23. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Datastream) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BW (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (83%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (83%); SIC3339 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS, EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRUSH WELLMAN INC MATERION BRUSH PERFORMANCE ALLOYS (83%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); NATIONAL JEWISH CENTER FOR IMMUNOLOGY & RESPIRATORY MEDICINE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRUSH WELLMAN INC NATIONAL JEWISH CENTER FOR IMMUNOLOGY & RESPIRATORY MEDICINE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BERYLLIUM; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; CHRONIC BERYLLIUM DISEASE (CBD); SUITS AND LITIGATION; LUNGS; IMMUNE SYSTEM NONFERROUS METAL PRODUCTION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); LITIGATION (86%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (78%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (78%); IMMUNOLOGY (78%); GENETIC SCREENING (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (56%); MILITARY WEAPONS (55%); 

PERSON: MEIER, BARRY LEE NEWMAN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



547 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
The Perennial Candidate

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
NO one would call Samuel D. Morell a sore loser. As a pesky perennial candidate who has run for the Council from the Upper East Side nine times in 20 years, Mr. Morell has been roundly trounced, ridiculed and just plain ignored by a political system that favors well-connected candidates over cash-strapped outsiders. After each bruising loss, Mr. Morell, an itinerant liquor salesman who is seldom without his trademark cowboy boots and BMW motorcycle, just gets up, brushes himself off and does it all over again. "What can I say?" he asked. "I'm a glutton for punishment."
This year, Mr. Morell, 54, a garrulous, heavyset man who can't sit still very long, is at it again. Although his opponent in the Sept. 10 Democratic primary, Councilman A. Gifford Miller, has the backing of every Democratic official and political club in Council District 5, Mr. Morell thinks that this time, he may have a chance. "Gifford is a pompous 26-year-old Princeton grad," he said last week, as he drove a reporter through the streets of Yorkville on the back of his motorcycle. "Me, I'm a common guy, a pit bull who isn't afraid to make waves. I think the voters can appreciate that." 
 Appreciation -- and money -- are two things Mr. Morell desperately longs for. As in years past, he is struggling to get out his homemade campaign literature. So far, he has less than half the $11,000 needed to print, label and mail out his fliers. With no headquarters, no organization and few resources, Mr. Morell relies on a handful of friends to help get his message out.
"Sam doesn't stand a chance of winning, but I think he's good for the political system," said Christopher Lynn, the city's Transportation Commissioner, who donated $100 to Mr. Morell's campaign this year. "He's unbossed, unbought and he's as honest as the day is long."
Others view Mr. Morell with bemusement and scorn. "Sam is a personable guy, but his campaigns never get any better and no one ever flocks to his side," said Assemblyman Alexander B. Grannis, a Democrat who represents the area. "I can't figure out why he runs." Robert J. Dryfoos, the district's former Councilman, said he believed that Mr. Morell runs to gratify his ego and to meet women while gathering petitions. "Sam Morell is like a perennial flower that expires a few weeks after it blooms," he said. "He comes back again when it serves his purposes."
Mr. Morell is used to questions about his motivation, and his response is typically florid. "I've got blood in my veins, a big mouth and I see problems I know how to fix," he said. Politics, he says, has been in his blood since his mother dragged him to Democratic rallies in the Bronx as a child. During one such event, he met then-Senator Jacob K. Javits, who patted him on the head and said: "Nice kid. You should run for office," Mr. Morell recalled. Those words of encouragement stuck.
Born and raised on Allerton Avenue in the Bronx, Mr. Morell gets teary-eyed when speaking of his mother, who raised six children alone by taking in boarders. "She taught me to always do the right thing even if it costs you money," he said. His formal education ended with high school and Mr. Morell points to the Woodstock music festival in 1969 as a formative learning experience. But unlike thousands of other youths, who were indulging in free love and psychedelic drugs, Mr. Morell was racing to sell 45,000 ice cream pops before they melted. With the $4,200 he earned at the event, he opened a clothing store on East 81st Street, which he lost during the economic downturn of the mid-1970's.
His first bid for public office came in 1973, when he tried to tackle the incumbent Councilman, Carter Burden, a wealthy scion of the Vanderbilt family. But the Board of Elections disqualified his candidacy after failing to find proof of his party registration. The ensuing legal battle to gain legitimacy was a seminal event in his would-be political career. Unwilling to spend money on a lawyer, Mr. Morell steeped himself in the arcane world of New York election law and successfully beat the board in Federal court. By then, however, there was no time to collect the required batch of signatures for getting on the ballot. In the following years, Mr. Morell has been forced to defend his signatures many times, making him something of an election law expert.
During the five races in which he actually made it on the Democratic primary ballot, Mr. Morell says he has been daunted by the task of campaigning while holding a full-time job. "There are some days I'm so exhausted," he said, "I find it hard to get out of bed in the morning."
But such tribulations have had little effect on his formidable verbal skills. Mr. Morell requires little prompting on the subjects of taxes, transportation and parking. His quirky platform includes proposals to abolish the city's Water Board, to increase off-street parking and tighten restrictions on street vendors who sell food.
He brags that he'll never tell voters what they want to hear just to win their support and describes a candidates' forum on Roosevelt Island several years ago at which Council hopefuls promised a roomful of anxious residents that if elected, they would make the island's financial troubles disappear. When Mr. Morell stood before the gathering, his remarks were brief and unforgiving. "Get off your butt, people, and have a bake sale," he shouted. "You've got to help yourself."
With two weeks until election day, Mr. Morell has a familiar sinking feeling. "All I need is a little support," he said. If he loses badly, he swears that it will be his last race. "Everyone thinks I'm crazy for running again, but what really matters to me is that when I die, I want this to be carved on my tombstone," he said, pausing to gather his thoughts. "Sam Morell, he was fearless and he did the right thing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: For Samuel D. Morell, perennial candidate, there are two kinds of cycles: his motorcycle, and the election cycle. The motorcycle runs fine. Election cycles are a different story. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "TIME AND AGAIN: Always a Bridesmaid" lists Samuel D. Morrell's many efforts to become a Council member.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); MOTORCYCLES (71%); PETITIONS (69%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW; MORELL, SAMUEL D SAMUEL D MORELL (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



548 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Why America Pays To Play Top Executives

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER 

 BODY:
WHEN Alex J. Mandl got a $20 million signing bonus last week for quitting AT&T to run an obscure wireless telephone company, he did more than raise the salary sweepstakes for other top executives. He also ignited a fresh debate about how to measure worth in corporate America.
Mr. Mandl's gravity-defying compensation puts him in the realm of superstar athletes like Michael Jordan, who is earning $25 million for one season with the Chicago Bulls, or Shaquille O'Neal, who has a seven-year, $120 million deal with the Los Angeles Lakers. 
 Mr. Mandl, however, is not the best person to ever play the corporate game. While the Austrian-born executive may have been in line to succeed AT&T's chairman, Robert E. Allen, his colleagues describe him as a sturdy, single-minded businessman.
Hardly grounds for a $20 million paycheck.
What Mr. Mandl has is an exquisite sense of timing. The business world now yearns for marquee executives -- and is increasingly willing to compensate them like film stars or franchise players. It's not that the executives are any better. It's just that technology and the dismantling of Government regulations have turned the marketplace upside down.

 
 
The 'Great Man' Theory
 In such a vertiginous environment, where new industries seem to spring up overnight while old ones are snuffed out, big-name executives act as anchors. They can soothe shareholders and, even more important, lure new capital from investors who would otherwise shy away from complex or unproven technologies.
"Academics, journalists and securities analysts have all become bewitched with the 'great man' theory of business," said Jeffrey A. Sonnenfeld, the director of the Center for Leadership and Career Studies at Emory University. "We have developed such a cult of personality that we think the chief executive personifies the firm."
In corporate America, what separates stars from working stiffs is not always clear. As AT&T's president, the 52-year-old Mr. Mandl had just enough heft to make the cut. Before joining AT&T, he ran Sea-Land Services, a giant shipping company, and more than doubled the company's revenues in three years.
Perception matters as much as reality, though, and in Mr. Mandl's case, a dollop of myth-making helped. Newspaper and magazine articles routinely refer to him as a brash leader who chafed in the stodgy confines of AT&T. Throw in his stocky build and silvery hair, and Mr. Mandl comes across almost like a Jack Kemp for the Rotary Club crowd.
In reality, he is rather low-key and reserved. One senior AT&T executive said Mr. Mandl was so aloof he had trouble galvanizing his colleagues behind his strategy for propelling AT&T into the newly deregulated telecommunications market.
But Mr. Mandl's skills are almost beside the point. The owners of his new company, Associated Communications, would like to take their venture public in the next year or so. Wall Street analysts said that the mere fact Mr. Mandl was involved could double the value of the stock offering -- from $250 million to $500 million.
"What you need is a signal that you have what it takes to succeed," said Robert H. Frank, an economist at Cornell University and the co-author, with Philip J. Cook, of "The Winner Takes All Society" (Martin Kessler/Free Press, 1995). "Now you've got a guy who is willing to give up his future at AT&T to bet on this technology. That's all the market needs to know."

 
 
The Flop Threat
 The danger in hiring celebrity executives is that -- much as a star athlete can get injured or a blockbuster actor can make a flop -- the big-name boss may never end up building a good company.
Barry Diller, the creator of the Fox network, brought Hollywood glamor to the dowdy business of home shopping when he became chairman of the QVC cable channel in 1992. Mr. Diller promised to transform QVC from a peddler of pillow covers to a high-tech electronic bazaar. That was enough to drive its stock through the roof, and Mr. Diller pocketed more than $100 million in profits. But while QVC remains successful, his loftier ambitions for home shopping fizzled, and Mr. Diller moved on.
John Sculley, the charismatic former chairman of Apple Computer, resigned in 1993 to run a small wireless company, Spectrum Information Technologies. Mr. Sculley left several months later, unable to fix problems that ranged from financial losses to criminal dealings by managers.
Such horror stories aside, Mr. Mandl's new employers may have already made the right decision in hiring him. The shares of Associated Group, which owns 55 percent of Mr. Mandl's venture, rose $6.75 in the 48 hours after his appointment was announced. That makes Mr. Mandl's employers roughly $120 million richer. At those numbers, a $20 million signing bonus looks like chump change.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alex J. Mandl, former president of AT&T, got a $20 million bonus from an obscure phone company. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP; ASSOCIATED COMMUNICATIONS AT&T INC (95%); SEA-LAND SERVICE INC (52%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%); CHICAGO BULLS (57%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP; ASSOCIATED COMMUNICATIONS LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%); CHICAGO BULLS (57%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES WAGES & SALARIES (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); TRENDS (87%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); CELEBRITIES (76%); SPORTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); WRITERS (64%); COMPANY REVENUES (64%); 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; MANDL, ALEX J MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



549 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By HUBERT B. HERRING 

 BODY:

REPUBLICANS
A Tax-Cut Pilgrimage
 
It wasn't a quiet week, in Lake Wobegon or anywhere else, as the Republicans endlessly sang their new tax-cut anthem. With a capital-gains tax cut, Jack Kemp vowed, "Everyone can get rich" (just as all the Lake Wobegon children are above average). He and Bob Dole had traveled to that tax-cut shrine called New Jersey, clearly hoping that a bit of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's magic dust -- it was, of course, on tax-cut wings that she flew from behind to victory a few years back -- would rub off. Yes, he told his audience, they could have it all: lower taxes, a balanced budget and stronger Social Security and Medicare. As for Democrats who say it won't add up, they're just trying to "scare people," Mr. Dole said. But there were questions in the audience like "How realistic is it?" or "Can he really come through?"
 
DEMOCRATS
The Presidential Inkwell
 
Bill Clinton, meanwhile, just couldn't stop signing things, wielding his tireless pen in an undisguised effort to prance into Chicago looking ever so Presidential. It was an odd mix, though: First came the minimum-wage bill, firmly in the liberal tradition of helping those at the bottom; then came a bill to expand access to health insurance, an inevitable reminder that this was a mere shadow of the revolution the Clintons had dreamed of, and finally the welfare bill, a scrapping of bedrock New Deal philosophy that outraged diehard liberals. It's a "moment of shame," said Marion Wright Edelman, a children's advocate. "This isn't welfare reform; it's welfare denial," said Senator Paul Simon of Illinois. And Bob Dole chimed in that the President "is ideologically adrift."
 
INSURANCE
Is Lloyd's Lloyd's Again?
 
Lloyd's of London. It still has a solid ring to it, doesn't it? It still evokes images of sober, whiskered gentlemen in top hats telling you in soothing, Gielgudian tones that all will be well. But all is not well, of course. The insurer is in an epic financial mess. Many people who've long pledged their assets to back its policies -- "names," they're called (translation: rich people) -- seemed in danger of being wiped out by a flood of claims. But now, we're told, it has all been worked out. On Wednesday the "names" will pay modest sums to a new company called Equitas and rid themselves of dark visions of Dickensian ruin. And Equitas, magically, will be able to deal with those vast liabilities. Will it work? "Our official position is that Equitas has plenty of money," one insider said. "But our fingers are crossed." But a Dow Corning executive wanted nothing of stiff upper lips, calling the deal "a giant international insurance shell game."
 
LEAVING AT&T
And It Isn't Even the N.B.A.
 
For a business executive, the pinnacle, naturally, is to run a giant company. That's the big leagues, the Broadway spotlight, the ultimate medal to pin on the ego. Executives down the ladder may hop off on some quixotic adventure, but what about someone on the doorstep of the chairman's office? Never. No, make that hardly ever. Alex Mandl, the AT&T president, seemed the heir apparent to Robert Allen, the chairman. But Mr. Mandl, 52, hopped off last week, taking the top job at tiny Associated Communications, which has big, big plans in wireless communications. What's the lesson here? (There must always be a lesson.) Well, it could be something profound about the fast-shifting horizons of the new, deregulated world of communications. Or, perhaps, it has something to do with the new company dangling a check in front of Mr. Mandl that looked as if it should have had Michael Jordan's name on it: a $20 million signing bonus.
 
LOTTERIES
Fantasies, Tamed
 
With a lottery, the house always wins. That's the point. And in New York, it wins big -- the state doesn't spend $42 million a year on ads for nothing. So what does it take to get the huddled masses, yearning to spend free, to plunk down precious dollars when the odds are so miserable? Simple: those ads, which have raised the selling of fantasies to an art form. "Hey, you never know," the sirens call; that mansion is just waiting for you. Enter Gov. George E. Pataki, worried that the ads promised too much. (Ads exaggerate? Never!) Scrap the mansions, he said. So the new ads feature winners boasting of the new blenders they received, or the new shoes. Honest, yes, but only a real blender freak would have to be strapped to the mast to resist that siren song.
 
TRADE
A New Deficit Champ
 
Well-trained newspaper readers know that if the first sentence is about the dreaded trade deficit, the second sentence will be about Japan -- about, yet again, how we buy so much from the Japanese and sell them so little. Year after year after year. Well, brace yourself (drums and cymbals, please): For the first time ever, Japan is not the largest source of the American deficit. In June, the figure for China rose to $3.3 billion, while for Japan it fell to $3.2 billion. Why? Well, China is selling us a lot of toys, clothes and other stuff, while Japan, emerging from recession, can afford more stuff for itself -- often foreign stuff. But one thing is the same: Though the deficit fell in June, America continues to devour the world's goods.
 
PROSTATE TROUBLE
What Works, What Doesn't
 
So: Bill Clinton is 50. More yesterdays than tomorrows and all that. Also, perhaps, more prostate trouble -- it hits half of men over 50. And as it happens, prostate remedies were also in the news in the Birthday Week. The New England Journal of Medicine reported that Hytrin, from Abbott Laboratories, was effective against an enlarged prostate, while Merck's drug, Proscar, did little better than a placebo. Merck, which had approved the study's methods, now says the study wasn't designed properly after all.
 
 
PRISONS
A Grim Success Story
 
When a business takes off, it's normally a cause for rejoicing. Jobs are created, widgets abound, economists smile. But at least one of today's hot industries must bring little joy: the prison business. Can anyone truly applaud when a society, whether concerned with safety, politics or morality, feels it must lock up a huge proportion of its citizens? Any doubt that prisons are indeed booming were surely dispelled last week when the American Correctional Association put on what had to be the world's largest prison trade show. There were more than 600 booths and 5,000 conventioneers at the vast Nashville show, which featured everything from $40,000 temporary cells to $250 ballistic batons to razor wire that comes in so many varieties you'd think cereal companies were making it.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows U.S. trade dificit with China and Japan. (Source: Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (82%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (82%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (64%); MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ELECTION ISSUES TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); LIBERALISM (88%); ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MEDICARE (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (65%); MINIMUM WAGE (51%); 

PERSON: HERRING, HUBERT B; DOLE, BOB; KEMP, JACK F BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



550 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Recession Proofed;
How Both Sides Joined the Supply Side

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
BOB DOLE and Bill Clinton are counting on finishing out the century without a recession. The word rarely, if ever, comes up in their election campaigns. Both candidates are pitching economic policies that assume that Americans, no matter how debt-laden or uncertain about the future, will go on buying all that this economy can produce.
The two political parties have arrived at an unusual, unstated consensus. They have both decided, in effect, that demand is simply not going to falter enough to drop the nation into recession. The issue, instead, for this election is not demand but supply -- producing more for the nation's ever-eager buyers. And Bill Clinton has joined Bob Dole as a supply sider, Democratic style. 
 "Our growth policies are supply side," said Joseph E. Stiglitz, chairman of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers.
"Supply side," popularized by Republicans, has come to mean cutting taxes. Lower taxes, the Republicans insist, will encourage wage earners to work harder and businesses to invest more in machinery and equipment. But "supply side" is actually a broader term meaning any policy intended to increase the capacity of the economy to produce more -- a goal that everyone wants but no supply-side policy has yet clearly achieved.
The Clinton Administration pushes supply-side outlays for education and training to make workers more productive. The centerpiece of Mr. Clinton's economic policy is deficit reduction, a supply-side attempt to shift money from government to private hands, where it would be invested more productively.

 
 
So Long, Keynes
 "What is peculiar is that both the Democrats and the Republicans are campaigning on the assumption that the problem of demand has been solved," said Paul David, a Stanford University economist, "and full employment" -- meaning plenty of demand -- "can be maintained."
Coming to such a conclusion means putting aside an array of "demand-side" policies stretching back to John Maynard Keynes and the Depression. Out of this period came the view that supply was not the problem. The economy too often produced more than people could buy. The issue was helping to increase demand, with the Government often stepping in as a public spender to give the economy a boost.
The demand-side approach has been dying for 20 years. In its place, supply-side policies, unproven yet, are nevertheless embraced by politicians with sunny optimism, as if they were advocating blue skies for July 4. Everyone is for productivity and expansion, in effect synonyms for supply side. On the other hand, talking about what to do to increase demand if a recession develops can be thorny, although pertinent. Getting through the next Presidential term without a recession would mean a record 10 years without one -- not impossible, but hardly a sure thing.
"It is pretty clear there won't be a recession before the election in November," said Robert M. Solow, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "So if you were to force the question on either candidate, either can say, 'The history of capitalism suggests there will be a downturn and we will meet it when it comes.' "
Debating solutions in advance means reminding voters that things could get bad soon, a pessimism no Presidential candidate wants to indulge in. It also means debating whether the Federal Reserve is manipulating interest rates properly, keeping them low enough to encourage borrowing and spending. That debate makes the stock and bond markets nervous, at a moment when both parties, in deference to Wall Street, shy away from challenging the Fed.
Then there is the issue of whether to increase public spending, an inevitable theme in any discussion of how to avoid a recession. But public spending means more government, just when both parties are advocating less. In the 1992 campaign, in the aftermath of the last recession, Mr. Clinton called for $16 billion in public works spending. He wanted, among other things, to stimulate the economy by supplementing the spending of the still-reluctant private sector. But after he took office, the economy revived and the Administration dropped this demand-side proposal in favor of deficit reduction.

 
 
Expansion Forever
 No wonder, then, that Laura D'Andrea Tyson, who presides over the National Economic Council at the White House, said in an interview, "There is no reason to predict the end of this economic expansion." And John B. Taylor, a Stanford University economist and a chief economic adviser to Mr. Dole, said, "At this point, the economy is expanding and there is nothing in the Dole package that would come close to a recession."
Most economists are happy to see supply-side economics front and center. Over the last 15 years, they say, the economic system has learned to keep demand robust so that Americans are busy, most of the time, buying all the nation can produce. The Federal Reserve has become the main agent in regulating this process, and recessions are viewed as short, accidental events, the aftershock of a an oil crisis or a mistake by the Fed, which somehow fails to lower interest rates just when it should. "Right now, the view is that not only can we manage demand," said Richard Nelsen, a Columbia University economist, "but recession is an insignificant problem that the Fed can reverse."
There are dissenters, of course. The National Association of Manufacturers says supply is not the immediate problem; its members can produce more than Americans are buying. The Fed therefore should hold down interest rates to increase demand. Unions also dissent. They see in mass layoffs and persistent wage stagnation too big a supply of labor, so they, too, are demand-siders.
Even Mr. Solow, who shares the view that the economy today is responding to demand with all its capacity, nevertheless would not mind testing to see if there just might be room for more demand. But he was a member of John F. Kennedy's Council of Economic Advisers in the early 1960's, when demand-side policies were all the rage. "If those days were these days," Mr. Solow said, "we would be exploring the gap and trying to understand if there was a gap left."
That sort of talk is not likely at the Democratic convention in Chicago this week. Nor is recession policy likely to surface, although some in the Administration are toying with the thought of accusing Mr. Dole of advocating irresponsible tax cuts that would bring on a recession. The scenario would go like this: tax cuts would not be matched by spending cuts, the deficit would rise, and so would interest rates, spending would slow, and a recession would arrive.
Ms. Tyson comes close to making the accusation, even using the "R" word. "If we change course," she said, meaning change course from Mr. Clinton's "even-keeled" policies, "if we move off a credible path to balancing the budget, to continued deficit reduction, that would cause interest rates to rise, slowing the economy and risking a recession."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DOLE (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: DOLE FOOD CO INC (91%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; PRODUCTION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



551 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: The Day of the WASP;
Is It Time for an Epitaph to the Ruling Elite?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES 

 BODY:
THE caricature is clearly etched in the public mind. The classic WASP is severely repressed, polite to a fault and so afraid of causing a scene that he can barely wave for a waiter. He is marginally articulate and blissfully unaware of things like shopping malls and "Oprah" and rap music. He probably has a silly nickname. He is keen on golf, sailing and tennis. He summers in Maine. In short, he is George Herbert Walker Bush, plus gin and tonics.
The term WASP was not invented by sociologist E. Digby Baltzell, but it might as well have been. 
 In works like "The Protestant Establishment," "Philadelphia Gentleman" and "Puritan Boston and Quaker Philadelphia," Mr. Baltzell, who died last week at the age of 80, established WASP as a brand name. With a sure hand, he traced the contours of America's aristocracy, the white Anglo-Saxon Protestant leadership class that held sway in the United States until well into the 20th century.
As an upper-crust Philadelphian, he knew his subject from the inside. He believed in the value of an enlightened ruling class, and he lived long enough to watch it evaporate.

 
 
Who's Who and Who's Rich
 Mr. Baltzell defined the WASP establishment as the list of names that apeared in both the Social Register (the privileged) and Who's Who (the doers).
It was, he argued, a class in crisis, content to relinquish its leadership role but hell-bent on retaining its social privileges, largely by exluding others. This state of affairs could not continue. Either the establishment could renew itself by admitting new members from outside its ranks, Mr. Baltzell argued, or it could wither and die, a victim of what he called the "the caste ideas of the country club set."
"I think Baltzell himself thought it was all over" by the time he wrote his first WASP book, in 1964, said Howard G. Schneiderman, a professor of sociology at Lafayette College in Easton, Pa., and the editor of Mr. Baltzell's papers.
"He was writing an epitaph to the WASP, and that epitaph was 'Death by Ethnicity,' " said Nelson W. Aldrich Jr., the author of "Old Money: The Mythology of America's Upper Class."
As immigration changed the complexion of American life and began to transform its politics the ruling elite came to see itself as an ethnic group. "This attitude deepened over the years and encouraged a withdrawal from public life that proved to be its death as a class," Mr. Aldrich said.
Is the day of the WASP over?
In "Crashing the Gates: The De-WASPing of America's Power Elite," the late Robert C. Christopher catalogued the declining influence of WASP's in nine categories of American life, showing that they were no longer dominant in big business, education, journalism and other professions.
He could have added that institutions like the elite private schools of the Northeast, the Ivy League universities and social clubs no longer exist to perpetuate a WASP elite, as they once did. While the manners and the style remain, the infrastructure of power and influence has largely disappeared.
"We do have an elite," said Mr. Scheiderman, "but it doesn't form a consanguine class of interconnected families who intermarry and pass power along from generation to generation." Huddled in their country clubs, losing their hold on the levers of economic and political power, WASP's now find themselves objects of scorn, the last ethnic group that it is still permissible to mock.
"In America generally there's a feeling of contemptuous disdain toward WASP's," said Roxana Robinson, whose novels and short stories probe the inner recesses of the WASP character.

 
 
Inner Lives
 "I encounter resistance to the idea that people who belong to clubs, or have several houses and a duplex on Park Avenue, can actually suffer and have complex emotional lives."
It may be a little early to inscribe the epitaph for the WASP, however. Although the road to the State Department no longer runs through Andover and Yale, and the Brahmins of John P. Marquand's novels may no longer exercise financial power, the heyday of WASP influence, from just after the Civil War to the end of World War II, has left a deep impression on the national life and character.
"They left an imprint that will never be effaced, barring a major upheaval like conquest by a foreign power, revolution or civil war," said Richard Brookhiser, a contributing editor of the National Review and The New York Observer. "You can't just decide you're going to change the behavior patterns of a nation."

 
 
How American
 In "The Way of the WASP: How It Made America, and How It Can Save It, So to Speak," Mr. Broohkiser argues that the WASP code is, in fact, the American Way. It may have been battered and bruised in the 1960's, but in its broad outlines it remains the template for American success: conscience, hard work, civic-mindedness, a desire to succeed and a distrust of sensual pleasure and anything that isn't useful.
This is the way of the WASP, and Mr. Brookhiser strongly recommends it, despite the regimen of stingy, ill-cooked meals and the lack of amenities that outsiders find so shocking.
"In the country clubs, there's three limp towels in a corner, no showers and no attendants," said Ms. Robinson. "The floors are wood, with some cotton rag rugs. There is no sumptuousness or luxury there, and there isn't about WASP life generally."
When it comes to fashion and manners, the way of the WASP needs no defenders.
Ralph Lauren has built an empire on the quasi-English look that American WASP's made their own. And it doesn't take a Baltzell to see in the cinematic vogue for Jane Austen and Edith Wharton, soon to be followed by Henry James, whose "Portrait of a Lady" will light up the screen at Christmas, a swelling of nostalgia for manners and civility, not to mention a social hierarchy.
"The idea of a family that has been in the same town and the same house, that has vacationed in the same place, for five generations, that solid connection to a cultural past, is very appealing," said Ms. Robinson.
Of course, it's all a distant memory. Or is it?
If the WASP's were to rise up and seize power again, they would be the last ones to announce the fact. After all, it might create a fuss.

GRAPHIC: Photo: WASP's have lost power, but they have left a deep impression on the culture. The movie "Metropolitan" examined young WASP's. (Jane Bresnick/New Line Cinema)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EST AS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WRITERS (66%); ETHNIC GROUPS (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); ETHNICITY (60%); TRENDS (60%); RAP MUSIC (57%); RETAILERS (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM; BALTZELL, E DIGBY GEORGE H W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



552 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: The World;
Asia's Path to More Equality and More Money for All

BYLINE: By PETER PASSEL 

 BODY:
BOB DOLE says he wants to cut taxes, proposing a 15 percent across-the-board cut in income taxes. And he wants to give the rich a bigger cut: he has proposed halving the capital gains tax, from 28 percent to 14 percent. The rationale? Cutting taxes on investment income means that there will be more savings to invest, translating into more risk-taking enterprise, more innovation and, utlimately, more growth.
Most Americans remember this idea from the Reagan era, when it was dismissed as "trickle-down economics" by liberals -- who were, in turn, accused of fomenting class warfare. But few know that it was manifestation of a broader, long-running debate in economic circles: is the care and pampering of a wealthy, productive elite the key to economic development, or does it pay to spread wealth around more evenly? 
 For all of the evidence available from 50 years of postwar economic history, the United States and Europe are still perplexed by this question; market forces are exacerbating inequality in Western nations -- most notably the United States, which is growing more rapidly than Japan or Europe.
But now there is new evidence undermining -- no, burying -- the theory that growth and economic equality don't mix. The proof is in East Asia, in the economies that have seen startling growth in the last 15 years.
For much of this century, most Western economists studying the patterns of growth came down on the side of the rich. The thinking, best articulated by the British economist Nicholas Kaldor in the 1950's, was that in poor societies, only the rich can afford to save. And since capital is the elixir of growth, it was a matter of arithmetic that societies that allowed the concentration of wealth would see faster development.
Simon Kuznets, a Nobel Prize winner who taught at Harvard, elaborated on the process by which wealth would trickle down. He theorized that as nations switched from agriculture to industry, gaps in the distribution of income would widen until the rural poor were absorbed into the more productive industrial sector.
Latin America and the Caribbean once seemed to make the case for the concentration of wealth. Growth in those countries was brisk in the 1960's and 70's, before their economies stalled after the oil crisis and the subsequent third world debt crisis.
But little of their wealth trickled down. Indeed, Brazil, with its grinding rural poverty and violent slums, became the poster boy for development with Dickensian results. Statistics in the 1996 United Nations Human Development Report show that while the average income in Latin America's largest economy has quadrupled and the average living standard has probably reached the level enjoyed by Americans in the 1950's, people in the bottom fifth of the income scale still average just two years of schooling and still drink polluted water.
But in East Asia -- roughly, the arc from Japan to Thailand -- income growth in the 1980's and 1990's has been greater than that of Latin America two decades earlier, while income disparity has narrowed. When China is included, average incomes in East Asia are still just half that of Latin America. But nutrition and life expectancy are virtually identical. And strikingly, the most successful East Asian economies are also the most egalitarian. In South Korea, the richest fifth of the population averaged 5.7 times more income than the poorest fifth, as against 32 times more in Brazil, 30 times more in Guatemala and 18 times more in Chile. In the United States, the ratio is 14 to 1.

 
 
Blame the Conquistadors
 Why did East Asia and Latin America take such radically different paths? Some sociologists cite Latin America's conquistador tradition, in which descendants of European colonizers owned the land and the indigenous majority worked it. East Asia's natural wealth was far more modest than, say, Venezuela's. Hence Asia did not have the easy income from raw materials to shield the ruling class from having to produce goods for competitive world markets.
Many economists, including Jeffrey Sachs, director of the Harvard Institute for International Development, see other differences between the Latin American and Asian economic models. "Begin with the fact that East Asia started out more equal," he noted; in Asia, almost everyone was poor after World War II, and postwar policies largely reinforced equality.
"Unlike Latin America, you had successful land reform," said Albert Fishlow, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. In Japan, reform was demanded by the American occupiers; in China it was imposed by revolutionaries. And in much of the rest of East Asia it was dictated by governments that brooked no opposition from former colonial powers.

 
 
Stuck at the Top
 There were other factors in the failure of Latin American wealth to trickle down. Education, for example. Latin America squandered resources on universities that served only the children of the elite.
East Asia, by contrast, invested heavily in mass education, which can either be viewed as social enlightenment or a matter of necessity. "When the only resource is people, you invest in people," said Gustav Ranis, an economist at Yale.
Then there's the colonial legacy. While the Japanese were hardly a benevolent bunch, their occupation left parts of East Asia with railroads, telephone systems and roads that made industrialization easier. What's more, notes Alice Amsden, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Taiwan and Korea inherited Japanese-created banking systems that were far more effective in allocating capital to productive enterprise than the banks in Latin America.
Asia's leveled playing field has produced a far larger middle class. And this group defies the assumption that savings comes easier in societies with highly concentrated wealth. East Asians save a high proportion of their income, while in Latin America growth has been constrained by very low savings rates.
Why did economists swallow the idea that social justice was the enemy of growth? Perhaps it was the not-so-subtle impact of the cold war, of a time when the West found it convenient to rationalize the excesses of anti-Communist regimes. But the obvious success of East Asia is forcing economists toward subtler interpretations of the relationship between income distribution and a strong economy. Perhaps economists are not the only people who can take lessons away from Asia's model.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Brazil's boom, the rich got richer. But slums, like this hillside settlement in Rio de Janeiro, shown in 1992, grew with the economy. (Imagens Da Terra/Impact Visuals)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (69%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); BRAZIL (93%); EUROPE (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (69%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (71%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME; SAVINGS TAX LAW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); INCOME TAX (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRENDS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%); AWARDS & PRIZES (62%); SLUM DWELLINGS (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



553 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: The 'Nonworking Class'

 BODY:
Proponents of the draconian welfare reform just enacted in Washington say the bill will help the poor to exchange "welfare checks for paychecks." But this welfare reform will do nothing of the kind. It will terminate welfare benefits after five years -- throwing perhaps a million children into poverty -- while doing little to create jobs in distressed areas where work does not exist. Having revoked Federal support, the country has an obligation to find or help to create jobs.
"When Work Disappears," a new book by the Harvard sociologist William Julius Wilson, offers a sobering look at the obstacles ahead, as well as several proposals for government and private-sector action. Mr. Wilson focuses on the dismal job market in Chicago's Black Belt, but his observations apply to dozens of cities across the country. 
 Mr. Wilson argues persuasively that urban social pathologies are related not to declining values, but to the disappearance of jobs and the social coherence they provide. One community he studied had 800 businesses 50 years ago but only 100 today. The community grew poorer as the businesses fled to the suburbs, beyond the reach of inner-city residents.
Mr. Wilson writes that, "for the first time in the twentieth century, most adults in many inner-city ghetto neighborhoods are not working." Widespread joblessness has given rise to a "nonworking class," living in segregated neighborhoods where most residents can't find work or have given up looking. Single-parent families have become the norm, in part because "marriageable men" -- men who work -- have become scarce.
In the absence of work, people have lost the skills and concentration that work requires and employers write them off in advance. Mr. Wilson tells us that 40 percent of Chicago's businesses screen out the urban poor by not advertising entry-level jobs in the city newspapers. Most companies that do advertise choose ethnic and suburban newspapers that bypass black neighborhoods. In other words, the poor are sealed off from both jobs and information about them.
Deepening urban poverty worsens racial tensions and threatens the fiscal future of the cities. By way of solutions, Mr. Wilson suggests creating higher standards for inner-city schools, restoring aid to cities to 1980 levels, expanding the employment base through a system of public-private and city-suburban collaborations, and expanding the earned-income tax credit. His most far-reaching suggestion is to revive the Depression-era W.P.A., providing useful public employment to every American over 18 who wants it.
This would involve political and administrative difficulties that Mr. Wilson does not begin to address. It would also be expensive. He estimates it would cost $12 billion to create only a million jobs. The program would be aimed not just at the urban poor, he writes, but at a broad swath of the population, possibly attracting popular support. Those who would reject Mr. Wilson's solutions have an obligation to do better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: BLACK BELT SYSTEMS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WELFARE (US); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF EMPLOYMENT (93%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SUBURBS (87%); LEGISLATION (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); FAMILY (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); PARENTS (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (75%); RACE & RACISM (74%); CITIES (73%); TAX LAW (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: WILSON, WILLIAM JULIUS (PROF) WILLIAM JULIUS WILSON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



554 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Return to Chicago

 BODY:
As the Democrats open their convention in Chicago tomorrow, President Clinton is still the front-runner, but his once-easy cruise toward re-election has run into turbulence. One of the biggest challenges facing Mr. Clinton and his party now is to make their meeting -- all four days of it -- interesting. They also have to figure out ways to snuff the political spark that Bob Dole got at his convention in San Diego. Perhaps most important, Mr. Clinton must clarify his goals and define his principles for voters worried that he stands for little more than winning re-election.
Democrats have long predicted that Mr. Clinton's gravity-defying lead over Mr. Dole would drop. Nevertheless, the White House seemed surprised by the lift Mr. Dole got from selecting Jack Kemp as a running mate, emphasizing tax cuts and erecting a facade of moderation on social issues. In response, the President held a flurry of bill-signings last week to appeal to interest groups and plans to announce additional initiatives during the convention. Hillary Clinton will also get a bigger role in Chicago than originally planned. 
 Chicago was a nervy choice for a party with strong memories of the violence and discord at the 1968 convention, where the culture of dissent reached its high-water mark. An irony of history is that Mr. Clinton, a child of that earlier era, is now rushing to embrace resurgent traditional culture. He remains handicapped, however, by widespread doubts about which tradition he represents.
On specific issues, few would describe Mr. Clinton's record as consistent. He campaigned as a new kind of centrist Democrat but veered left upon taking office, raising taxes and embracing a gigantic government role in health care. Stunned by the Republican landslide in 1994, he has moved to the right on welfare, deficit reduction and social issues, from crime to schools.
There is talk of dissent among Democrats in Chicago over welfare, abortion and perhaps other causes. Mr. Clinton has promised not to copy the Republican script from San Diego and says he will let dissidents have a say. Like others, we lament that conventions have become places of happy talk and calculated image-making, but at least the Republicans aired their differences in a vigorous primary campaign. Surely the Democrats can admit their differences without projecting an air of chaos that convention planners always dread.
Republicans spent much of their convention re-introducing Mr. Dole to the public in sepia tones. But many voters have had enough of which candidate has the more inspiring life story and which most loves the values of family, work and neighborhood. It is time to discuss ideas and programs. Voters want to know what Mr. Clinton has in mind for the economy and the budget, as well as in the unmet agenda for welfare, health and education.
Having taken the expedient path in signing a welfare measure more likely to punish the poor than help them, Mr. Clinton needs to tell how he will insure that jobs are available for people who want to work, whether they are on welfare or not. He has talked of investing in education and training for the next generation. Where will he get the money? His pledge to balance the budget in seven years is vague about spending cuts down the road. How much more can the role of the Government be cut back?
As Democrats converge on Chicago, it is worth remembering that no American city has a richer history as a backdrop for the party's struggles. It was in Chicago that Adlai Stevenson elevated national discourse in 1952 by promising to "talk sense to the American people." It was where Franklin Roosevelt pledged "a new deal" in 1932 and where, a century ago, William Jennings Bryan invented the modern Democratic Party by wresting it from decades of devotion to big business.
Mr. Clinton has to make his own mark on history. He deserves great credit for his political skills and for presiding over strong economic growth and peace abroad. But voters remain anxious about the economy and other signs of decline in American life. They want a clear picture of where he will go in the future and what principles will guide him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); EDITORIALS ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (73%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (73%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (73%); BUDGETS (73%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



555 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Merlyn Stuart Pitzele, 85, Labor Union Specialist

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Merlyn Stuart Pitzele, a onetime student radical who grew up to advise the Republicans Thomas E. Dewey and Dwight D. Eisenhower on labor issues during their respective campaigns for the Presidency, died on Aug. 13 at home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 85.
The cause was complications from a fall, said his son, Peter. 
 Mr. Pitzele (pronounced PIT-zell-ee) worked -- at times concurrently -- as a labor organizer, economics teacher, management consultant, labor arbitrator, editor, author, adviser to future pensioners, drug fighter and group therapist.
A product of the Great Depression, he first turned to the union movement to teach at a union-run school in Chicago and help organize steel workers.
He moved to New York in 1940 to become a management consultant and the labor editor of Business Week, where he became senior editor in 1955.
His speeches at industry meetings caught the attention of Mr. Dewey, who made him principal labor adviser when he campaigned for President in 1944 and 1948. Mr. Pitzele played the same role in the Eisenhower campaigns of 1952 and 1956.
He was a member of the State Mediation Board from 1945 to 1957 and served as its chairman for seven of those years. The board is New York's labor peacemaker. Its members deal with critical situations while holding their regular jobs.
He was on the faculty of Columbia University Teachers College and lectured at Princeton, Harvard and other universities. He wrote articles and special reports on labor, economics and aging. In 1960 he founded Retirement Advisors Inc., which advised unions and businesses on life in retirement, and ran it until 1975.
He then held managing positions in Daytop Village, which operates drug-rehabilitation centers, and the Moreno Institute in Beacon, N.Y., where patients with emotional disorders act out difficult situations in their lives.
Born in Chicago, he graduated from the University of Chicago in 1933 and did post-graduate work there and at the University of Wisconsin.
In addition to his son, of Poughkeepsie, Mr. Pitzele is survived by two grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: RETIREMENT ADVISORS INC (66%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); WRITERS (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); 

PERSON: PITZELE, MERYLN STUART; SAXON, WOLFGANG THOMAS E DEWEY (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



556 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1779 words

HEADLINE: WELFARE CLIENTS OUTNUMBER JOBS THEY MIGHT FILL

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER 

 BODY:
It will be virtually impossible for New York City and State to move hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers from public assistance into full-time jobs over the next few years, as the new Federal law overhauling welfare intends, according to many economists and job-training experts.
There are nearly 470,000 adults on welfare in New York City, and many experts say that only a small number are likely to find permanent jobs. The reason is simple: the city's economy is growing much too slowly to absorb so many inexperienced, unskilled people in a short time. The sheer number of welfare recipients in New York City, when compared with the size of the local job market, makes the task of finding real jobs, primarily in the private sector, very daunting. 
 But there is a mismatch, as well, between most of the sectors of the city's economy that are growing -- business services, media, computer and data services, the securities industry -- and the unskilled welfare recipients who will soon be thrust into the job market.
Under provisions approved last month by Congress and signed into law on Thursday by President Clinton, most people on welfare will receive benefits for a maximum of five years. Once their time limits are up, most recipients will lose all benefits and be on their own. Up to 20 percent of those on public assistance -- the ones who are least employable -- will be allowed to remain on welfare beyond the limit. (Even while receiving benefits, most people on public assistance will have to enroll in workfare.)
Critics of the law have long argued that there are not nearly enough entry-level jobs in New York and other large cities with sluggish economies, high unemployment and large concentrations of poor people -- like Detroit, Chicago and Los Angeles -- to accommodate everyone on public assistance.
Even some proponents of overhauling welfare say that New York's economy cannot provide jobs for so many people so quickly.
Consider this: There are 3.3 million jobs in New York City, and since the city's recession ended late in 1992 there has been a net gain of 88,000 jobs. At that slow rate of growth, if every job gained by the local economy were given to a New Yorker now on welfare, it would take 21 years for all 470,000 adults to be absorbed into the economy.
"You've got a problem," said Robert Lerman, an economist at the Urban Institute, a Washington think tank.
William J. Grinker, a former commissioner of the city's Human Resources Administration, said that the local economy could not, on its own, provide employment to so many unskilled people.
"With a growing economy, I suppose eventually you'd be able to do it," he said. "But in the short term it logically leads you to understand that a massive job creation effort beyond anything the Government's done since the Great Depression would have to go on to provide work for all those people.
"It's not that it can't be done, but certainly not within the time frames of the law," said Mr. Grinker, who is now a consultant in health and social services, including job training for welfare recipients. "It's a big, big, big hit."
The relationship between people on welfare and the local economy is more complicated, and in many ways even more problematic, than can be understood by looking only at net job gains in the last four years.
The labor market is fluid, and at any time thousands of jobs are being created and thousands of others are disappearing. So there are many opportunities available to an individual on welfare, at least in theory. But most job openings are not appropriate for someone with no high school diploma, a spotty work history and limited skills. And even when entry-level jobs are available, thousands of people in addition to welfare recipients compete for them. Right now, there are 271,000 New York City residents who are unemployed and looking for work, but who are not on welfare. (New York City's unemployment rate, which is 8.5 percent, is 57 percent higher than the national average, 5.4 percent.)
New York also has a smaller portion of people employed, compared with its overall working-age population, than many other large cities. That means there are tens of thousands of New Yorkers who are not actively seeking work, but who might compete for future job openings.
To this grim mix must be added the fact that about 15 percent of the 3.3 million jobs in New York City are part time, according to Census Bureau surveys. And more than 20 percent of the jobs in the city have been held in recent years by people who live in the suburbs, according to Rosemary Scanlon, the Deputy State Comptroller for New York City.
Of the remaining jobs, many and probably most require more education and skill than the average welfare recipient possesses. The industries that have served traditionally as entry points for unskilled and low-skilled workers -- manufacturing, construction and government -- have declined or remained static in New York even while the economy has grown in the last four years. However, several sectors of the local economy that have grown, including retailing, restaurants and home health care, are believed to have provided new entry-level jobs.
Overall, though, even enthusiastic supporters of the central thrust of the welfare overhaul -- ending long-term dependency -- say that only a small fraction of New Yorkers on welfare are likely to find jobs in the private sector when their eligibility runs out after five years.
"There is no doubt that New York City and other cities don't have the jobs anymore," said Michael D. Tanner, director of health and welfare studies at the Cato Institute, a research organization in Washington that generally promotes free-market policies. "One of the things that welfare has masked is normal migration patterns."
Mr. Tanner, while endorsing the law's basic direction, said he was "a little bit concerned at the basic idea of moving large numbers of people who are currently on welfare out all at one time. There is a possibility of overburdening the system if you flood it all at once."
But Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, contends that the welfare overhaul, by cutting the cost of government, will lead to tax reductions and an expansion of New York's private sector. "If you limit the burdens on businesses," he said, "they will stay in New York and expand and hopefully will be able to absorb the larger work force."
"I believe that that, coupled with the increase in the minimum wage, which is very important for entry-level jobs, will make the market much better than some people fear," he said.
Mr. D'Amato also said he expected such a major change in social policy to take time to put into effect. "There will be some hardships and some dislocation," he said. "No doubt there will be some who fall through the cracks. We will watch out for problems, but we should not allow that to prevent us from moving forward."
Those opposed to the welfare changes envision nightmarish scenarios, with tens of thousands of poor single mothers and their children being thrown out on the streets if their benefits run out and they cannot find work.
"I think it is going to look like it did in the Depression in the city," said Liz Krueger, associate director of the Community Food Resource Center, a welfare advocacy group. "We'll have tent camps. I think we will have a boom in homelessness so extreme that nobody in modern times could have even imagined it. I think there will be an increase in crime in poor communities, because that will be the only option some people will have. I think we will see landlords running away from buildings in poor communities, because people will not have the incomes to pay rents that would enable landlords to keep their buildings up."
Some people wonder if the city and state will be forced to step in to prevent large numbers of welfare mothers and children from becoming destitute and homeless. Under the new law, 80 percent of those on welfare will have their benefits cut off after five years; the other 20 percent are assumed to be permanently unemployable because of disabilities and other serious problems.
The city and state, which now pay half the cost of welfare, with the Federal Government paying the other half, could decide in five years to take up the entire burden, to prevent welfare recipients who are unable to find work from becoming homeless.
But to do so, the city and state would have to raise taxes or cut other government services even more than they already have.
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall predicted that after Election Day, as the full implications of the welfare overhaul become more clear, Washington may re-examine it. "When the heat of the political moment cools off, there are people who will look at this a little differently," Mr. McCall said. "Politically, it is very popular to talk about reducing welfare. But there hasn't been a lot of thought on policy, in terms of a comprehensive policy that makes sense."
Among other things, he said, if Congress and the President really want to move people into permanent jobs, they will have to take regional economic differences into account.
Nationally, there are 4.5 million adults on welfare and 126 million jobs. But the jobs and the welfare recipients are not distributed equally. In New York, there are 470,000 adults on welfare and 3.3 million jobs -- a ratio of welfare recipients to jobs four times the national average.
It is no accident that midwestern states like Wisconsin and Michigan have been in the forefront of prodding people from welfare to work. The economies of these states have been strong, with low unemployment and surging job growth, and they have had some success in reducing their welfare roles and finding permanent jobs for people.
"The Congress has looked at states which really are at full employment," said Mr. Lerman, the economist at the Urban Institute. "I think it's going to be quite difficult in New York City, unless there is a resurgence."
Some New Yorkers contend that significant numbers of welfare recipients can be assimilated into the city's economy only with major new public investments in education and job creation.
"In another era, our parents created the G.I. Bill and made available affordable housing and education," said Harvey Robins, a former aide to Mayors Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins who once served as acting commissioner of the city's Human Resources Administration. "Why not a new millennium bill for New York City that creates jobs at living wages and with health care benefits to meet the needs of the city: transportation and education."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Welfare Population In 15 Largest Cities" shows the percent of population on welfare. (Sources: Census Bureau, Queens College Department of Sociology) (pg. 46)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION EMPLOYMENT (95%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); APPROVALS (52%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN BILL CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



557 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE CITY;
Chicago Prepares and Promises No Repeat of 1968

BYLINE: By DON TERRY 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 24

 BODY:
As part of their training to keep the streets calm and the ghosts in the graveyard, 2,500 local police officers recently prepared for the Democratic National Convention here by sitting in the dark. In groups of 50, they watched a documentary of the bloody clashes between the police and antiwar demonstrators in 1968, the last time the Democrats had the courage to hold a convention in the Windy City.
"The average age on the department is 40," said Paul Jenkins, the Police Department's spokesman. "Most of our officers now don't know much about '68. They were little kids then. It's not something they really teach in Chicago schools, so we wanted to make sure they know what happened." 
 The brass also wanted to make sure that the rank and file saw what not to do. It has taken the city nearly 30 years to get the Democrats back to town after its downtown streets were turned into a battlefield, shrouded in a fog of tear gas and the sound of police billy clubs striking the heads of protesters. Chicago and the Democratic Party do not want to be that embarrassed ever again.
But the Democrats are returning to a much different Chicago, even though the city is once again being run by a man named Daley. The city is smaller, calmer, less white and more open to change. A new generation is operating the city more like a business than a back room. Hispanics head both the Fire and Police Departments, whose members are better trained and educated than ever before. The black middle class has exploded in size and influence. And the city has had a woman mayor and two black mayors.
Still, in some ways Chicago is much the same, as if time had been frozen in the city's wicked winters.
Local pols are still going to jail for corruption in a parade of civic shame. The Cubs have not won a pennant, many of the schools are factories of failure, and Chicago remains one of the most segregated big cities in the nation, with bulging pockets of poverty that breed fierce street gangs and busy undertakers.
The bridge connecting these two Chicagos is the name Daley. In 1968, Richard J. Daley -- the Boss -- played host to the Democrats in the old International Amphitheater near the stockyards. Today the stockyards are gone and the Boss's son, Richard M. Daley, is Mayor and will welcome his fellow Democrats at the shiny new United Center, the House that Jordan built, the arena where the Chicago Bulls and Michael Jordan play basketball.
"What we had in 1968 was municipal totalitarianism," said Leon Despres, a former member of the Chicago City Council and often the only voice of opposition to Richard J. Daley. "The local government we have today is not utopian and not a great reform movement, but there is much more freedom and fairness in government. The city is much more relaxed than it was 30 years ago."
The city is also smaller. At 2.8 million residents, Chicago has about 700,000 fewer people than it did in the late 60's, and there are now almost as many blacks as whites. Chicago has nearly 550,000 Hispanic residents, the fastest growing ethnic group in the city.
One of the biggest changes in Chicago came in 1983, when a multiracial coalition elected the city's first black Mayor, Harold Washington.
Under Mayor Washington, significant numbers of blacks, gays and women got high-ranking jobs and city contracts, making government more reflective of the population.
"I think Daley would admit he learned an awful lot from Harold Washington," said Paul Green, a professor of political science at Governors State University in University Park, Ill.
The history of '68 was not the only reason the Democrats stayed away from Chicago. During the 1980's, the city's raw racial politics turned Chicago into "Beirut by the Lake," when white aldermen opposed Mr. Washington at almost every turn.
The racial rhetoric by Mayor Daley and others has cooled considerably in recent years, but Chicago has a long way to go before it reaches any hilltops of understanding. Just the other night, a swastika was burned into the ceiling over the door of a Lutheran church and anti-black graffiti was scrawled on the door of an elementary school in a largely white section of the city's South Side.
"Racism is still very prevalent in Chicago," said Dick Simpson, a professor of political science at the University of Illinois and former member of the City Council. But less prevalent these days are blue-collar jobs. About 2,000 factories, big and small, have closed or left town in the last 30 years, taking with them about 300,000 manufacturing jobs. Those jobs have largely been replaced by jobs in the service and health industries and government. The Chicago of today has about the same number of jobs -- 1.3 million -- as it did when the Democrats last came to town.
"The economy has rebounded pretty well," Professor Simpson said. "The difficulty is it depends so much on the service economy. The average wage for service employees is $15,000 a year with no benefits."
But some people are making plenty of money. Almost overnight, middle-class and upper-middle-class neighborhoods have sprung up in areas where the poor struggled to survive, among abandoned buildings and vacant lots.
Indeed, much of the Chicago the delegates will see has never looked better. The lakefront has always been the stuff of postcards and lovers. But to welcome the Democrats, Mr. Daley ordered city work crews to spruce up the town by painting buildings, highway ramps and fences. Streets have been repaved and new street lamps installed, and Mr. Daley has had many trees and flowers planted.
At a news conference the other day, Mayor Daley asked any modern-day demonstrators to please be "nice citizens." In the old days, the Boss controlled the streets with an iron hand and an even stronger will. He did not do a lot of asking. His son is a man of the 90's, willing even to cry in public, as he did when his son got into trouble with the law several years ago.
"We have more civilized, more enlightened, more up-to-date people running the city today," said Eppie Lederer, better known as Ann Landers, the advice columnist who is one of Chicago's most beloved exports. "Police brutality was part of the way in the 1960's."
Most of the police officers involved in the '68 riots are now in their 50's and 60's, riding desk jobs or lawn chairs in retirement. And many of the demonstrators have children and mortgages, with a President of their generation coming here to be nominated for a second term to lead a country at peace with the world.
Still, thousands of demonstrators are expected to hit town again, some of them, the Mayor says, coming with images of '68 dancing in their heads. He said that his department would treat everyone professionally and that his officers had been thoroughly instructed on respecting First Amendment rights. But the name of the game is still control.
Demonstrators will have to sign up to protest at two designated spots. Each group will get one hour, and the city will supply the microphones.
Mr. Daley likes to remind people that by the time the Democrats and demonstrators rolled into town 28 years ago, much of the planet was reeling from a year of violence and sorrow. Every night on the news, the sons of Iowa, Illinois, New York and every other patch of the country were being loaded into body bags for the long trip home from Vietnam. Back home, the war was dividing the country and the Democratic Party. Then in April, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated in Memphis, and in June, Senator Robert F. Kennedy was gunned down in Los Angeles.
The Rev. Jesse L. Jackson was living in Chicago in 1968, but he did not demonstrate at the convention. He will address the delegates at this one on Tuesday night. He said he did not expect much trouble outside because times have changed -- for the better and for the worse.
"The party is going to have to address the radical division of wealth in this country," he said in an interview. "The roof has been removed for the rich, and the floor has been removed for the poor. The gap between the haves and the have-nots is greater now than the gap between black and white."
If the delegates want to see examples, they do not have to travel far from the United Center.
On the West Side, they might see the massive addition to the Cook County Jail, one of the newest, busiest, biggest and nicest-looking buildings in the neighborhood.
On the South Side, they might see the Robert Taylor Homes, one of the largest public housing developments in the country, a bleak world of high-rise towers of poverty that no one has bothered to spruce up.
"Chicago is a tale of two cities," said Salim Muwakkil, a local writer and editor. "The downtown is vibrant and bustling and clean. In the ghetto, the underground economy is just about the only place to make any money."
The ghosts of '68 are clearly on the Mayor's mind. He told 89 new police officers at their graduation ceremony on Wednesday that even though more than half of them had not even been born the last time Chicago was the host of a Democratic convention, they and the rest of the department would be the focus of worldwide attention.
"Next week," he said, "once again the whole world will be watching Chicago."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chicago's lakefront has always been the stuff of postcards and lovers. Mayor Richard M. Daley has ordered city work crews to spruce up the city for the Democrats' visit by painting, repaving and landscaping.; Allen Singleton, left, and Terrell Dismuke played basketball recently in the Washington Park area, which most delegates are unlikely to see. (Photographs by Todd Buchanan for The New York Times); Richard J. Daley; Richard M. Daley.
 
Graphs: "AT A GLANCE: Chicago -- Then and Now"
Though it still may be windy nad have a mayor named Daley, much in Chicago has changed since the days of its last national political convention. (Sources: City of Chicago, Department of Planning and Development; Municipal Reference Collection of the Chicago Public Library; Chicago Police Department; Federal Bureau of Investigation; Queens College Department of Sociology)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO CITY LIMITS (50%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1968 US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CEMETERIES (78%); RIOTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (71%); CORRUPTION (66%); MISCONDUCT (65%); BASKETBALL (60%); 

PERSON: TERRY, DON MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



558 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2526 words

HEADLINE: THE DEBT TRAP -- A special report.;
Personal Bankruptcies Surging as Economy Hums

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
It was not long after Christine Olander moved to New Jersey from Chicago in 1987 that she got her first auto loan. Then came a department store card and then a Visa card. It was, as she sees it now, "a vicious circle."
In nine years, Ms. Olander, who is 34 years old, accumulated some 35 cards and $60,000 in debt. 
 Over the same period, she lost her job as a home-health-care aide and turned to working as a waitress for $2 an hour plus tips, hardly enough to make her minimum credit card payments, let alone to pay the rent. It took a card of a different sort to show her the way off this treadmill: A lawyer's business card, stacked up in a diner, with a toll-free number and the heading "Bankruptcy."
Christine Olander's experience is a flesh-and-blood profile of the forces that have produced an explosion of personal bankruptcies in the United States.
If the current torrid pace continues, about 1.1 million Americans will file to have their debts wiped away this year under Federal bankruptcy laws, up 25 percent from 1995 and far surpassing the record of 900,000 cases in 1992.
Unlike the previous surge in bankruptcy, which took place in the wake of a severe recession, the current epidemic coincides with the fifth year of an economic recovery. Unemployment and inflation are low, a record number of people are working and the stock market is bounding back to its record highs.
How to explain the anomaly? In part it is because many individual households, despite the robust economy, are still being shattered by job loss or an uninsured medical emergency that pushes them over the edge.
"People don't have a safety net," said Jeannie Seeliger, a lawyer in Jersey City who specializes in bankruptcy. "They have high credit-card balances at high interest rates and they don't save any money. When the layoff hits or there is a large medical bill or a divorce, they have no cushion."
At the same time, bankruptcy no longer carries the stigma it once did, making it far easier for those who have simply accumulated too much debt to repudiate their obligations with only modest adverse consequences. But most of all, the bankruptcy surge reflects the payback from the wave of unsolicited credit-card offers that banks and card companies have showered on many more Americans than ever before.
Indeed, though sudden tragedy still pushes a lot of people over the edge, even more are drifting almost casually into insolvency. Alan A. Aaron, a lawyer who has practiced in Midland, Tex., for 15 years, said that the vast majority of his new bankruptcy cases were "a husband and wife working where everything seems to be going the right way, except they have more money going out than coming in."
Not only will 1 in 100 households declare bankruptcy this year, their debt will be higher than ever before -- 5.3 times their annual income, compared with only 3.5 times in 1988, according to Visa International.
All these bankruptcies cost banks and other lenders an estimated $10 billion last year, a cost they passed on to their other customers in the form of higher interest rates. But far from being a painful drain on their profitability, the added expense is in fact a planned consequence of their efforts to win business in an increasingly crowded market by making higher-risk loans. The banks are allowing far higher credit limits than their customers' incomes would have warranted in the past. And they are giving new credit to people they previously would have shunned, including those in their first jobs, those with low incomes and even those who have just emerged from bankruptcy.
"Nowadays a credit granter can dip into a risky class of borrower," said Robert Johnson, a researcher with the Purdue University Center for the Study of Consumer Credit. "Even if 8 out of 100 will go bad, they can charge enough interest to make a profit."
Many industry experts wonder whether the banks are playing a big game of musical chairs, with more money lent out and circling from one card to another than can ever possibly be paid back. And they envision a mad scramble when the music stops.
"We don't want to have a severe economic downturn with so many people on the edge," said Fred C. Allvine, a marketing professor at Georgia Tech. "If unemployment rose by 50 or 100 percent, bankruptcies would soar and the banks' portfolios would be highly questionable." He fears consequences far beyond the banking sector. "Consumer credit has been the tail that has been wagging the dog in the economy," Mr. Allvine added, "so we have to ask whether we have been sucking the consumer so far into debt that a mild recession could become a major downturn,"
 
Pushed to the Edge
From Medical Bills To Downsizing
For many people, the descent into bankruptcy is less of a sickening plunge than a slow, almost imperceptible slide. Consider the case of Irene, an 84-year-old resident of Bogota, N.J., who, as did many people interviewed for this article, spoke on the condition that her last name not be printed. She first went into debt in 1989 when her husband was found to have Parkinson's disease. Her insurance would not cover the $300 a month in drugs he needed, but her Visa account would. Over six years, the couple ran up a debt of $19,000, using their combined Social Security checks to diligently make the required monthly minimum payments. When her husband died last February, Irene filed for bankruptcy protection.
"I don't like the idea," she said. "But I had reached a point where we weren't even able to make the minimum payments."
In fact, a new survey by Visa shows that more people are citing excessive spending as the chief cause of their bankruptcy, instead of job problems or family emergencies, as was the case only a few years ago. When asked the "main reason" for taking the action, 29 percent said they were "overextended," 17 percent cited medical problems, 15 percent blamed unemployment, 12 percent divorce and 6 percent collection tactics by bill collectors. The results contrasted sharply with a 1991 survey by the bankruptcy court system in which nearly half of the respondents blamed job problems, including unemployment and loss of income.
Other national trends feeding the bankruptcy courts, experts say, include increased payments due on variable-rate loans and mortgages, the spread of casino gambling into almost every corner of the country and the increase in the number of entrepreneurs who finance their start-ups with credit cards.
The range of people's breaking points can be seen in the windowless hearing room in a Newark skyscraper where two dozen people wait for their bankruptcy court hearing. On a recent August morning, some look as if they are dressed for church, though T-shirts and jeans predominate. Lawyers herd groups of half a dozen clients at a time, and the court accommodates them by holding their hearings in blocks.
"We have people who have lost jobs in banking, on Wall Street, you name it, every field I can think of, and it has a ripple effect," said Ms. Seeliger, the Jersey City lawyer, who this morning has five clients on the docket.
One by one, they are called to a rectangular table to be examined by the bankruptcy trustee, a private lawyer acting on behalf of the court. The stories of their monetary misfortunes spill out: A doctor hit by the plummeting value of his $300,000 home. A salesman who plunged into debt when his company took away his commissions. A man who could not pay his taxes after his divorce. A young woman with a half-dozen silver rings in her left ear whose long struggle with the disorder lupus bankrupted first her parents and now her.
"I used to see a lot of people who got burned by buying real estate in a declining market," said Jonathan Kohn, one of the trustees in Newark. "Downsizing is the current theme here. People who have been let go from good-paying jobs have to settle for jobs paying much less. They start using their credit cards to meet ordinary living expenses."
These cases fall under Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code, the most commonly invoked, which will wipe away most unsecured debts except for student loans and back taxes. If there are any assets -- and there usually are not -- they are distributed to the creditors. But personal effects, including a car and accumulated home equity up to certain limits, can be retained. (Individuals can also file for protection under Chapter 13, in which they can keep more of their assets but must make partial payments toward their debts in a three- to five-year plan.)
The trustee quickly examines each person's bankruptcy petition -- including a statement of his or her assets and liabilities -- and then fires off a routine series of questions: Have you recently transferred any assets to someone else? Have you omitted from the list something of value, coins or stamps perhaps? The interrogation lasts three or four minutes, and if nothing irregular is found and no creditors raise objections, the debtor is told he or she will receive a discharge of debts in the mail in a few months.

The Onus Is Gone
'Bad Credit No Problem'
Greasing the wheels of this process is a society that increasingly prods people to spend borrowed money and then makes it easy to have the debt forgiven.
For Ms. Olander, the New Jersey waitress with $60,000 in debt, credit cards provided a ticket to a fashionable wardrobe and fancy perfume that would otherwise have been out of reach. But she even used them to buy necessities like food for her dog and an air-conditioner for her mobile home in Long Valley.
"I was the queen of credit cards," Ms. Olander said. "It was like a sickness. I would see something I wanted and I would buy it. If a new gold card came in the mail, I would break it in by taking a vacation."
Bankruptcy lawyers around the country say that many of their clients tell similar stories.
"There is a lid on earnings, but meanwhile, people's cost of living and their desire for fancier life styles go unabated," said A. Stevens Quigley, a Seattle bankruptcy lawyer.
Once many of these people realize that they have borrowed more than they can repay, they display a surprising lack of shame about reneging on their financial obligations, bankruptcy lawyers and court officials say. After all, the newspapers are filled with prominent role models -- like Macy's and the actress Kim Basinger -- who blithely disavow their debts without feeling the sting of public disapproval.
"I remember worrying about whether to file for bankruptcy, thinking about how I was going to break it to my Dad," said Tom, a practical nurse in Cambridge Springs, Pa., who had racked up $100,000 in debt, half from a failed contracting business. "Then on TV I saw that Rockefeller Center was declaring bankruptcy, so I said, 'Hey, I've got good company.'
"I don't look at it as a cop-out," he added. "I'm just taking advantage of one of the opportunities the Government offers. It doesn't have the stigma it had."
Bankruptcy often looks like a good deal. Lawyers advertise fast and painless filings for fees that are often less than $1,000. In fact, many lenders argue, it is too painless. Visa calculates that 30 percent of the people who have all of their debts wiped away under Chapter 7 could in fact make partial payments under a Chapter 13 bankruptcy plan.
But the lenders themselves may be most responsible for bankruptcy's growing appeal by removing what used to be its biggest penalty -- the denial of future credit. Instead, they are falling over themselves to trumpet "bad credit no problem" loans. These come at a price, of course; someone who has just emerged from bankruptcy can pay interest in excess of 25 percent a year for a car loan. Such onerous terms increase the likelihood that the recipient will find himself back in the same financial hole out from which he just emerged.
Some experts say the industry ought to be rethinking its all-is-forgiven message. "If the credit industry wants repayments, it should put some teeth into the incentives for people to pay them back," said Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard Law School professor who has studied bankruptcy.
 
Quantity, Not Quality
Credit Grows; So Do Risks
After the catastrophic losses from bad real estate loans in the late 1980's, banks and other financial companies simultaneously concluded that lending to consumers would be the safest and the most lucrative use of their money. Then, with more players rushing into a more crowded market, the competition forced them to compromise on some longstanding watchwords of prudent banking.
The results can be seen in mailboxes stuffed with offers of "platinum" cards with credit lines of up to $100,000, or mere gold cards with 5.9 percent interest for loan balances transferred from other accounts. And on late-night television, movies are interrupted by commercials for instant home-equity loans.
The most recent statistics show that consumer credit is growing at a brisk 9 percent annual rate; it now totals nearly $1.2 trillion, of which $350 billion is on credit cards.
While banks are still earning record profits, there are increasing signs that the corners they have cut on credit quality are going to hurt them. Late payments and outright losses are up sharply this year.
"For the last two or three years, lenders have been more aggressive with the less creditworthy segments, and recently they have been surprised that their losses have been higher than they expected," said Alan Schiffres, a senior vice president of Portfolio Management Associates, a New York City consulting firm on credit quality.
Bankruptcy has proved to be particularly devilish for lenders these days because all the balance-transfer offers allow people in trouble to bounce debt from one card to another. So instead of seeing a customer slowly fall behind in payments, lenders now often get the first inkling that a credit-card holder is in financial straits by receiving a notice of a bankruptcy filing.
And banks have found that their high-technology computers are curiously impotent in helping them weed out likely candidates for insolvency. A model developed by Fair Isaac & Company, a consulting firm, finds that the characteristics of many people who are about to file for bankruptcy are also those of the most profitable customers: They take a lot of cash advances, borrow up to their credit limits and make only the minimum payments each month.
And so, while a few credit-card companies are cutting back credit limits on customers with a lot of outstanding debt, most are eagerly lending them more and more.
"What are you going to do, call up your customers and say, 'I think you are going to go bankrupt'?" asked Aviad Broshi, a credit-quality consultant and former Chase Manhattan executive.
Yes, that's exactly what some people think lenders should be doing.
"People are getting the wrong message," said Ms. Seelinger, the lawyer. "They are now getting letters saying, 'You are such a valuable customer that we are increasing your credit line.' If they got a warning instead, saying, 'You are borrowing too much,' there would be fewer bankruptcies."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Personal bankruptcies are at a record level. Christine Olander, a waitress in New Jersey, filed for bankruptcy after accumulating $60,000 in debt for things like dog food and an air-conditioner for her home. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times) (pg. 38)
 
Graphs: "Skating Closer to the Brink" shows number of families filing for bankruptcy ('82-'96), average amount they owe when they file ('88, '92, '96), and consumers' total debt ('80-'96). (Source: Federal Resreve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; INTEREST RATES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); LAYOFFS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); LAWYERS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (73%); INTEREST RATES (61%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL CHRISTINE OLANDER (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



559 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 12; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
The G.M.'s Ask: 'Hey, Who's the Kid on the Hill?'

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
When Dallas Green expressed his candid assessment of the Mets' young pitchers last week, the overall theme of his comments was lost in the severity of his words about Jason Isringhausen and Paul Wilson. "These guys really don't belong in the big leagues," the outspoken manager said.
But in an honest, general look at the state of pitching, he also said: "The problem we have more and more is the speed-up type of baseball we've created. It's part of speed-up baseball. It's not the Mets' system. It's baseball's system." 
 Indeed, speed-up baseball is responsible for the influx into the major leagues in recent seasons of pitchers whose names are unfamiliar to fans when they arrive and, in many instances, still unfamiliar when they depart because they don't stay around long enough and certainly don't do enough while they're around to make themselves known.
Who could identify this potential starting rotation: Matt Ruebel, Elmer Dessens, Marc Wilkins, Chris Peters and Darrell May. And this one: Carlos Crawford, Mike Grace, Rafael Quirico, Rich Hunter and Lucas Beech.
The first group has started for the Pittsburgh Pirates this season, the second for the Philadelphia Phillies. Some remain with the teams; others made cameo appearances. All are rookies, like many other pitchers with unfamiliar names who have started in the majors this season. Rookie relief pitchers add to the confusion.
"They're new to me and I'm a general manager," the Rangers' Doug Melvin said of all the rookie pitchers. "I ask where does this guy come from. I'm not ashamed to say as a general manager it's hard to keep track of everyone. That's one reason I broke down our scouting into professional and amateur. I couldn't keep track of all the movement."
The number of rookie starters is certain to grow after Saturday because clubs can expand their rosters. Last season, 71 rookies started games before Sept. 1, and 16 more started after that. This season, 64 rookies have started. Texas, Cleveland and San Diego are the only teams that haven't used rookie starters. It is no coincidence that the Rangers, the Indians and the Padres are division leaders.
"Teams are always looking for pitching," said Jim Leyland, who manages one of those teams, the Pirates. "Guys are starting to take the attitude if a pitcher can throw strikes in the minors, give him a chance in the majors. It's necessary in our situation."
In the Pirates' case, four of the five rookies they have used as starters had not pitched above the Class AA level of the minor leagues before this season. The inexperience shows.
"The results are not so good," Leyland said. "I like some of the guys. But we have other guys so we say let's take a look at a couple others. We've kind of rotated to get a look at all of them to see what it looks like for our future. It's like Bill Virdon said: 'You try enough guys, something might stick.' That's what we've done. Not that we've been overly impressed or depressed. We're just giving guys a chance so we can see how they do."
Leyland readily acknowledged, though, that at least some of the rookie pitchers would fare better with better teams. "I think a lot of people," he said, "think a lot of our young pitching on a real good ball club, a team that scores runs and takes off the pressure, could be pretty good. We haven't given them that kind of support."
Nothing is guaranteed. The Atlanta Braves have used Jason Schmidt as their fifth starter -- he's now in the disabled list -- and he has a 3-4 record with a 6.75 earned run average. Baltimore tried Jimmy Haynes as their fifth, and he pitched himself back to the minors (3-6, 7.29 e.r.a.).
 The Yankees have tried three rookies as starters, and unlike two of their three rookie starters last season, Ramiro Mendoza, Mark Hutton and Brian Boehringer did not succeed. Andy Pettitte and Mariano Rivera started as rookies last season and have become the stars of this year's staff, Pettitte as the American League's No. 1 starting pitcher and Rivera as the league's best relief pitcher who isn't a closer.
The most successful rookie starters have been James Baldwin of the Chicago White Sox (9-3, 4.14), Donne Wall of Houston (7-4, 4.28), Alan Benes of St. Louis (11-7, 5.01), Ugueth Urbina of Montreal (7-5, 4.14), Rocky Coppinger of Baltimore (7-5, 5.25), Jose Rosado of Kansas City (4-3, 2.51) and Grace of Philadelphia (7-2, 3.49), who has been on the disabled list with a sore right shoulder for nearly three months.
Generally, the widespread use of rookies has become a nerve-racking part of a manager's job. "No question about that," Leyland said. "That's going to be tough not just on Jim Leyland but on any manager. In our situation you have to keep on trying people. It's fine to be pitching guys making $109,000, but it's going to be hard to win."
 
 
 
Are They Using a Super Ball
 In 1987, the major leagues' record year for homers, four players hit at least 40 homers, 24 others whacked 30 or more and 51 others hit 20 or more. Last week, Albert Belle of Cleveland and Sammy Sosa of the Cubs joined Mark McGwire of Oakland on the 40 plateau, five more players reached 30 for a total of 22, and 10 hit their 20th, raising that group's total to 44.
Reaching 30 last week were Terry Steinbach of Oakland, Ed Sprague of Toronto, Ryan Klesko of Atlanta, Dean Palmer of Texas and Alex Rodriguez of Seattle. Getting to 20 were Paul Sorrento of Seattle, Kevin Elster of Texas, Scott Brosius of Oakland, B. J. Surhoff of Baltimore, Jose Valentin of Milwaukee, Melvin Nieves of Detroit, Carlos Delgado of Toronto, Ray Lankford of St. Louis, Todd Zeile of Philadelphia and Bobby Higginson of Detroit.
In all, 69 players have hit 20 or more, compared with 79 in 1987. Of this season's 69, 34 have reached career highs, compared with 48 in 1987.
 
 
 
Nieves Fills a Void
 Cecil Fielder left a huge void in Detroit when the Tigers traded him to the Yankees, but Melvin Nieves, a 24-year-old outfielder, has shown signs of picking up the slack. Coming off the disabled list last Monday, Nieves got only a single in his first game but then slugged 4 home runs (for a season total of 21) and drove in 9 runs as he collected 5 hits in 12 at-bats in the next three games, all Detroit victories.
"The guy has a lot of potential," Fielder said. "He has probably the most power I've seen in a long time. He just has to put it together. Sometimes you don't mean to get hurt, but it happens. But he's got to be accountable every day. He has to find a way to keep himself healthy and be out there for the ball club."
Fielder alluded to Nieves's two visits to the disabled list this season. The Tigers are the third team Nieves has played for in his brief career. He spent five seasons in the Atlanta minor league system before joining the Braves for 10 games in 1992. He was traded to San Diego in 1993 and made brief visits to the Padres that season and the next before playing for them on a part-time basis all of last season.
 
 
 
Rookies Around the Horn
 The San Francisco Giants began the season with an infield of Mark Carreon at first, Robby Thompson at second, Shawon Dunston at short and Matt Williams at third. Carreon has since been traded to Cleveland, and the other three are on the disabled list. The Giants now have an infield basically of Desi Wilson at first, Jay Canizaro at second, Rich Aurilia at short and Bill Mueller (pronounced Miller) at third.
Rookies all, they entered the season with a total of 27 days of major league experience, all Aurilia's. Their four predecessors had combined for 34 years and 72 days in the majors.
 
 
 
Welcome to Talk Baseball
 The owners said Donald Fehr, the players' labor leader, couldn't make a deal. Fehr has been waiting for two weeks to close a deal. They said the union was stalling. Union officials have sat virtually idle for two weeks waiting for the owners to hang up their phones.
The owners wanted a system that would retard salaries. The union has given them a luxury tax as well as other economic givebacks. The owners have never voluntarily given the players a system economically beneficial to them. When the owners agreed to the 1976 deal that created free agency, they did not act out of compassion for the underpaid players. They acted with arbitration and judicial rulings staring them in the wallet and granting players a wider form of free agency than they ultimately accepted.
In other words, it's time to make the deal that will assure skeptical fans it is safe to return to the ball parks and that will give prospective business partners the impetus to sign up. "We have some marketing deals just sitting there," a person on the owners' side said. "People want to make sure we won't have any stoppages."
Considering the strife-torn history of these negotiations, Randy Levine, the owners' chief labor executive, has done an award-winning job in getting to the brink of an agreement. If the owners let him, he could go the rest of the way and complete the talks with Fehr in a matter of hours. Just think of the possibility -- an agreement this week.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Orioles' Rocky Coppinger is one of the 64 rookie pitchers who have started in the majors in 1996. Many of them have returned to the minors. (Associated Press for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (77%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (54%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (77%); DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS (91%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (54%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (91%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (54%); PHILADELPHIA PHILLIES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (77%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (54%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (77%); DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY JIM LEYLAND (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



560 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's 'Little Kings' Again Terrorize Its People

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Aug. 23

 BODY:
During three decades of dictatorship, they were called "little kings" and used to intimidate and brutalize civilians. Now, nearly two years after the democratically elected Haitian Government disbanded the country's armed forces, these former soldiers are again being cited as a threat to security and political stability here.
Discharged troops have been blamed for an assault on police headquarters here earlier this week, in what the police say was revenge for the arrest of 20 other former soldiers last weekend. Haitian officials, from President Rene Preval on down, have also pointed to the involvement of former members of the armed forces in recent assassination plots, robberies, kidnappings and other crimes. 
 "The military are instruments of political destabilization," Mr. Preval said in an interview at the National Palace here today. "But behind them you will find the politicians who are pulling the strings, and the people who are really committing these actions, the economic sector."
About 6,500 Haitian soldiers and officers were demobilized after American troops landed here in September 1994 and restored Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power, three years after he had been overthrown in a military coup. Today, diplomats described the 5,000 cashiered enlisted men as a resentful, volatile mass with a long list of grievances, angry at the Haitian and American Governments, the officers who once led them and fellow citizens who despise and reject them.
"This is a problem that has become more urgent because of recent events," a Latin American diplomat here said. "These soldiers have never really been under duress or faced a challenge before. But now they have lost their status in the community and can be easily manipulated by anyone who offers money or leadership."
Concern about the danger posed by discharged soldiers has been continual since Mr. Aristide's return, but has grown considerably during the last month. In mid-July, Lieut. Gen. Claude Raymond, who was army chief of staff during the dictatorship of Jean-Claude Duvalier, which ended in 1986, and still enjoys some prestige among the ranks, was arrested and charged with committing "terrorist acts in the framework of a process to destabilize public authority and order."
The same day General Raymond and three associates were jailed, Andre-Pierre Armand, leader of the Association of Unjustly Discharged Soldiers, which lobbies on behalf of the demobilized soldiers, denounced what he called "a plot to destabilize the Government" that entailed assassinating Mr. Aristide and Mr. Preval. Three days later, Mr. Armand was shot in the head and killed at his home.
"The plot is already completely organized," Mr. Armand told radio reporters here just before his death. "It only remains to be put into action."
One major source of discontent is financial. While many officers have either gone into exile or landed jobs with business groups still sympathetic to the old military Government, ordinary enlisted men have been largely frustrated in their efforts to recover the pensions, severance pay and military-bank savings accounts they say are due them.
"We're not asking for anything that is not ours," said Wilto Eliance, an eight-year veteran who said 20 percent of his $85-a-month salary had been withheld from him and deposited in such accounts. "With the money that is owed us, we can start our own businesses and feed our families."
The pension and savings funds were looted when Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras and other members of the military high command fled the country in October 1994. Records, too, were destroyed, and the Ministry of Defense, which was in charge of those accounts, no longer exists.
Still other discharged soldiers, demanding that their military salaries continue to be paid, have demonstrated outside Government offices and the American Embassy. They argue that the formal dissolution of the armed forces in accordance with the Constitution is not yet complete and that they are therefore not cashiered but on a sort of extended leave.
"No decision has been taken, but there have been discussions with the Government of Haiti as to what further can be done to address the grievances" about pensions and savings "and set that right," William L. Swing, the American Ambassador here, said in an interview. But, he said, the United States supports Mr. Preval's position that the armed forces have been legally abolished.
Many of the former soldiers also served as members of the interim police forces set up after Mr. Aristide's return, and have been enraged to see former colleagues incorporated into the permanent force, known as the Haitian National Police, or even the palace guard. "They are no better than us," complained a veteran who is now studying computers.
Thus far, the Haitian Government appears to have done little to address the discontent, other than to criticize the soldiers and warn them of severe punishment if they take actions against the state. The only effort to "recycle" the cashiered soldiers into normal life and productive activities is a job-training course run by the International Organization for Migration, an independent group based in Geneva, with money from the United States and other international donors.
More than 4,500 former soldiers have enrolled in that six-month program, studying to become mechanics, plumbers, carpenters, welders or even computer operators while they earn "training stipends" close to their military salaries. But only 8 percent have been able to find jobs in their new trades after graduation, according to Marco Bourasso, the program's director.
"If we go to the owner of a business, he'll always think badly of us," said a 24-year-old former sergeant who has been looking for work as an electrician. "As soon as you say that you are former military, they tell you they wouldn't give you a job even if they had one."
There have been suggestions that the Government should create jobs in order to defuse the frustration of the discharged soldiers. But with the economy still staggering nearly two years after democracy was restored and unemployment running more than 50 percent, that would be an unpopular and politically costly measure.
"Why should Preval do anything to help those bullies and thieves?" asked Smith Philogene, an unemployed handyman who lives in a slum area known as La Saline. "If there are Government jobs to be handed out, they ought to go to decent folks who are truly part of the people and suffered at the hands of those beasts."
President Preval is very much aware of that sentiment and sympathizes with it. "If the people who were victimized for three years are patient enough to wait for justice, then the perpetrators, too, should be patient and wait for us to find a solution," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Concern is growing in Haiti over crimes by discharged soldiers with grievances. In June, former soldiers protested at the American Embassy. (Daniel Morel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (94%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ASSASSINATION (89%); ARRESTS (89%); ARMIES (78%); COUPS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); TERRORISM (60%); HEAD INJURIES (60%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; PREVAL, RENE (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



561 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Silence Seen As Weapon For Terrorists

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI and RAYMOND BONNER 

 BODY:
Seven hours after Trans World Airlines Flight 800 exploded off the coast of Long Island, a television station in Tampa, Fla., received a phone call from a man who said he represented a "jihad" group. He claimed responsibility for the downing of the Boeing 747 and said more attacks were imminent.
Shortly afterward, Cable News Network received a fax in Arabic from an organization claiming responsibility for the attack. The group, which identified itself as the Movement for Islamic Change, the jihad wing, said the attack was part of an effort "to destroy the whore Israel and her mistress, the United States." 
 Over the next few days, these claims and a similar letter to an Arabic-language newspaper in London were evaluated by investigators and discounted. Since then, no group, notorious or unknown, has stepped forward to take responsibility for an explosion that investigators strongly suspect resulted from a bomb or missile attack.
But the lack of a credible claim of responsibility does not rule out the possibility that the plane was brought down by a terrorist, independent experts and officials investigating the T.W.A. crash say, because these days terrorist groups are just as likely to set off bombs and say nothing.
Bruce Hoffman, director of the Center for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence at St. Andrews University in Scotland, called today's terrorist groups "more nihilistic" than their ideologically motivated predecessors of the 1970's and 80's.
Mr. Hoffman said a growing number of these groups have religious agendas. Their goals of inflicting punishment and undermining governmental authority -- particularly that of the United States and Israel -- can be accomplished and even enhanced by anonymity.
"If God tells you to do it, God knows you did it," said Brian Jenkins, a terrorism expert for Kroll Associates, a security firm in New York City. "So you don't have to issue a communique to let God know."
When Pan American World Airways Flight 103 was blown up over Lockerbie, Scotland, in 1988, the terrorist group that organized the attack never came forward, although United States intelligence officials eventually concluded that Iran's militant Islamic Government had set the plot in motion to avenge the accidental downing of an Iranian airbus six months earlier.
Aum Shinrikyo, a Japanese religious sect that was seeking to usher in the millennium by killing thousands with nerve gas last year, never claimed responsibility for the attacks, in which 11 people died. Nonetheless, the police discovered that the group was responsible.
The 1985 bombing of an Air-India jet over the Irish Sea was eventually attributed to a Sikh separatist group, even though none ever admitted to carrying out the attack.
The investigators in the T.W.A. crash face a different problem: conflicting claims from previously unknown and perhaps nonexistent groups.
All three claims -- in the letter to the London-based newspaper, the phone call to the Tampa TV station and the fax to CNN -- were discounted, investigators said, because of their timing and because they lacked telltale details that would have convinced the authorities of the purported culprits' inside knowledge about Flight 800's destruction.
"All of the claims we've had came after the crash, which naturally makes us suspicious," said a senior law enforcement official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "And none of them contained any of the kind of specifics that would indicate a real working knowledge about how or why this plane blew up. So you work from the assumption that it's just a group seeking publicity."
Law enforcement officials say a credible claim of responsibility would be a significant break, giving focus to an inquiry that for the moment encompasses every plausible motive, from plots against passengers to international terrorism.
Although investigators have found traces of explosive residue on wreckage from the cabin of Flight 800, they have not formally ruled out the possibility that mechanical failure caused the explosion on July 17, in which 230 died. "Maybe the fact that they didn't send a letter taking credit is because they're trying to say, 'We didn't do it,' " a law enforcement official said this week.
Other investigators have hoped in recent weeks that the long delay in gathering enough forensic evidence to declare the attack a bombing might have the side effect of flushing out the saboteurs. Week after week of public speculation about possible mechanical failure, investigators said, might eventually goad a terrorist into seeking public recognition for his prowess.
So far, that hope has been unmet.
"They have caught on that if they don't claim responsibility that makes it much harder for us," said Morris Busby, former coordinator of counterterrorism for the State Department. "If you claim responsibility for something we're going to come after you."
It was not always so.
Twenty years ago, an act of terrorism was almost always followed by a claim of responsibility from some radical group, which would issue a communique stating its aims and demands. Most terrorist acts of the 1970's and 80's were committed by secular organizations seeking to advance their goals; it did them no good if no one knew they had done it. For this reason, groups like the Irish Republican Army and Basque separatists still claim responsibility for terrorist attacks.
In some cases, especially during an organization's infancy, a terrorist act would bring the group to public attention and force a government to deal with it.
But recently, public outrage has increased the risks for terrorist groups claiming responsibility, making governments far more likely to retaliate with military strikes or economic sanctions against nations that sponsor attacks.
American prosecutors have been given new powers to hunt individual terrorism suspects around the world and have captured, tried and convicted several in recent years.
The World Trade Center attack in 1993 was followed by a letter to The New York Times and other messages from the bombers that read, "We can get you anytime." F.B.I. officials tracked suspects around the world.
Although the messages did not provide a break in the Trade Center case, the eventual arrest of suspects in Egypt and Pakistan sent a strong message to potential terrorists that they could not escape American justice, according to experts.
Self-preservation is not the only reason that suspects have kept a lower profile. Because many of today's terrorist groups are more religiously motivated than their predecessors, they have fewer reasons to seek notoriety.
"They are less interested in finding a place in the system than in tearing it down," said Mr. Hoffman of St. Andrews University. In 1968, he added, no known terrorist group had religious aims. Fifteen years ago, only two did. Today, he said, about a quarter of the 50 known terrorist organizations have religious roots.
The bombings that paralyzed Paris last summer and the nerve-gas attacks in Tokyo last year are typical of the modern breed of terrorism.
For three months in Paris, bombs went off in subways, in open-air markets, in front of schools, without anyone claiming responsibility for them. Finally, a radical Algerian Islamic organization issued a statement, because it wanted to make political demands of the French Government.
One of the primary motivations of religious terrorists is to embarrass governments, making them appear impotent to their citizens and to the world. Experts say this is accomplished by the act itself, regardless of who did it. The sense of incompetence deepens when the government cannot identify the perpetrator.
By remaining anonymous, the enemy is unseen, unknown, a mystery. If people don't know who their assailant is, how can they protect themselves? "It feeds the fear and paranoia," Mr. Hoffman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

COMPANY: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA) BOEING CO (58%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANS WORLD AIRLINES (TWA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; TERRORISM TERRORISM (94%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); SIKHS & SIKHISM (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); MILLENNIUM (50%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; BONNER, RAYMOND

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



562 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-23
 
RUSSIAN GRIEF OVER CHECHNYA
The horror of the war in Chechnya is reflected in a town where Russians come to claim their war dead, and it is testimony to the disorder of the Russian Army in Chechnya. 1
 
In Chechnya, wary calm, but in Moscow, confusion. 14
 
IN HAITI, OLD THREAT RENEWED
Two years after the Haitian Government disbanded the feared armed forces, discharged troops are being blamed for attacks that threaten the country's stability. 3
 
INDONESIA'S SOCIAL EXPERIMENT
Indonesia's plan to reduce overcrowding on Java by moving people to outlying islands has turned landless laborers into farmers, but it has caused problems. 22
 
High suicide rate for Brazil Indian group as their land shrinks. 6
 
Mixed feelings in France over a plan for a papal visit. 9
 
In Nigeria, skepticism about a promised election. 10
 
An American Congressman said North Korea needs food. 23
 
Mexico has many unsolved killings, and some seem tied to politics. 6
 
A campaign to have a woman lead the United Nations. 4
 
A ban by Yasir Arafat's agents on books by a critic. 12
 
National 24-40
 
DISSENT AND THE DEMOCRATS
President Clinton acknowledged that there was some tension in his party, particularly over welfare, but he contrasted that with Republicans, whom he accused of squelching dissent at their convention. 1
 
THE FIRST LADY'S ROLE
Hillary Rodham Clinton is not winning any popularity contests with voters, but even so, Democratic strategists are developing ways to use her to advantage. 1
BACK TO CHICAGO
Chicago is smaller, calmer, less white and more open to change than it was last time Democrats came for a convention, but in other ways it is the same as it was in 1968. 30
 
MATCHING STARS
News Analysis: The Democrats may have trouble equaling the star power that was displayed at the Republican convention. 28
 
NOT THE USUAL SUSPECTS
Eight men and one woman indicted in Seattle on Federal charges of conspiring to make bombs defy many of the stereotypes associated with such cases. 1
 
BANKRUPTCY BOOM
Special Report: The economy may be sound, but the number of personal bankruptcies is soaring. 1
 
RAISING THE TITANIC
A crew preparing to raise a piece of the Titanic has stirred up controversy as well. 24
 
Metro 41-46
 
WELFARE CLIENTS OUTNUMBER JOBS
It will be virtually impossible for New York City and State to move hundreds of thousands of New Yorkers from public assistance into full-time jobs over the next few years, as the new Federal welfare law intends, according to many economists and job-training experts. The city's economy is growing too slowly to absorb so many inexperienced, unskilled people in a short time. 1
 
SILENCE AS A TERRORIST WEAPON
No credible claim of responsibility by any terrorist group has come up in the investigation of the explosion aboard T.W.A. Flight 800. But security experts say that does not rule out the possibility of a terrorist act. For many of today's terrorist groups, their goals can be accomplished, and even enhanced, behind a cloak of anonymity. 41
 
SUBTLE CHANGES IN SUBWAY CARS
The New York Transit Authority is planning to buy a new generation of subway trains, with cars that look like the old ones but are far different under their steel skins. 41
 
Obituaries 47

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); FRANCE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); FRANCE (71%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); EXPERT WITNESSES (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); INDICTMENTS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); PERSONAL DEBT (61%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); SUICIDE (54%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



563 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RECORD;
A True Believer Who Has Won the Day

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 23

 BODY:
A onetime aide to a moderate Republican in the House of Representatives remembers when he first understood the essence of Representative Jack Kemp. It was the mid-1980's, and Mr. Kemp had once again drifted from the agenda of a meeting with his party's House leaders to lecture them on economic proposals.
The aide had heard it all before; Republican moderates generally regarded the proposals as silly and even dangerous. But as he sat there, he said this week, "it gradually dawned on me for the first time that he really believed this stuff." 
 It was the secret of Mr. Kemp's success in the House, where he served from 1971 to 1988, representing suburban Buffalo, but speaking mostly, and often, to the nation.
For him, everything was subsumed by some larger, evangelical, cause. The duties of representing a stumbling Rust Belt district were feedstock for broader theories on urban revival, free trade, education reform, labor relations, economic policy and even Central America.
Buffalo never seemed to mind; Mr. Kemp was almost always re-elected by landslides. He put an optimistic, populist face on ideas that were at their root deeply conservative. And his monologues, which so often struck his House colleagues as outlandish two decades ago, have to a surprising extent become Republican dogma. While he was not averse to getting Federal appropriations for his district, he was not so concerned with such practical matters.
"He took his share of grants like any Congressman, but it just wasn't his focus," Mary Cannon, an adviser to Mr. Kemp both in the House and later, when he was the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, said in an interview. "He was really kind of the leader of the conservative opportunity wing of the party."
In his first decade or so in Congress, the House component of that wing comprised perhaps five Republicans: Mr. Kemp and Trent Lott of Mississippi, Connie Mack of Florida, Vin Weber of Minnesota and Newt Gingrich of Georgia. Mr. Weber now runs Empower America, a conservative policy group that Mr. Kemp helped direct before accepting the Vice-Presidential nomination; the other four have largely come to dominate elective Republican politics.
Mr. Kemp was perhaps the most hyperkinetic and least disciplined of them, qualities that seemed, until this month, to have made him a prophet without honor in his party.
The story of his swift rise in the House is familiar. A fading quarterback for the Buffalo Bills, Mr. Kemp was recruited by the city's Republicans for political office and squeezed into the House in a close 1970 race against a divided Democratic Party.
He was converted in the mid-1970's to supply-side economics and drafted legislation in 1978 with Senator William V. Roth Jr. of Delaware that would have slashed Federal income taxes by 30 percent over three years.
Washington snickered. Then, in 1980, Mr. Kemp convinced the Republican Presidential nominee, Ronald Reagan, that the theory was sound, and two years later, a revised Kemp-Roth bill was the nation's law.
The two simple notions behind Kemp-Roth -- that the Government should create wealth instead of redistributing it and that lower taxes are the engine of growth -- have driven the Republican Party ever since. Mr. Kemp, however, proved to be more complex than that.
He favored a larger Federal role than did most of his conservative allies and fellow House Republicans in addressing social and economic problems, something he once attributed to his front-row seat at the collapse of industrial employment in Buffalo's Rust Belt years.
"That was a real blessing for me," he told The New York Times in 1985. "That disabused me very early about ideology winning campaigns. Those guys wanted answers; they wanted problems solved."
And unlike most Republicans in the House, he had few concerns about spending more Federal dollars for solutions, even at the expense of higher deficits. Supply-side theory said the economic spurt from lower taxes would generate enough new money to cover new expenses.
So Mr. Kemp began to march to his own Republican drummer on the House floor -- maddeningly persistent in defending his economic ideology and maddeningly heretical, in Republican eyes, in support of certain social spending.
Elected chairman in 1981 of the House Republican Conference -- a political student-council president, in effect -- he promptly rebelled in public against his elders when the White House agreed to reduce the Kemp-Roth tax cut to 25 percent, from 30 percent.
Then he rebelled again in 1982 when Bob Dole, then the Senate majority leader, and the Reagan Administration agreed to roll back some of the deepest cuts in business taxes. At the same time, he began to lobby, sometimes with Democrats, on behalf of programs that his colleagues either opposed or had no interest in.
Mr. Kemp led a fight early in President Reagan's first term to reverse cuts in Federal aid to magnet schools, then an experiment in promoting voluntary desegregation by creating schools with attractive programs in minority neighborhoods.
He joined Representative Robert Garcia, a Bronx Democrat, in promoting a plan to attract industry to poor neighborhoods by converting them to low-tax "enterprise zones." (Congress passed a version of the plan in 1993, about five years after Mr. Kemp left the House.)
He worked with black Democrats in the House on legislation to enable the poor to buy Federally renovated public-housing units. He chastised Republicans for their hard-line opposition to labor unions, and he spoke to union conventions.
In the mid-1980's, he urged Republicans to collaborate with Democrats on a bill to simplify the income-tax code, closing loopholes and lowering rates, an idea the White House later adopted. When talks collapsed in late 1985 and House Republicans killed the main tax-overhaul bill, Mr. Kemp made an end run. Meeting at the White House, he persuaded Mr. Reagan to support publicly a compromise that many Republicans in the House did not support.
"A lot of staff, myself included, thought he was crazy," John Mueller, then an economic adviser to Mr. Kemp , said in an interview. "It got him a lot of flak at the time."
Mr. Kemp took the House floor and allowed that he had broken ranks with his fellow legislators, but he argued that Mr. Reagan's pledge had changed things. The tactic worked. The House reversed itself, passing the same bill it had rejected, and the talks lurched forward.
By the summer of 1986, Mr. Kemp had played leading roles in two efforts that had cut the top income-tax rate, which had once been 70 percent, by half. It was all the more notable because Mr. Kemp did not sit on any tax-writing committee, but on an appropriations subcommittee and the relatively powerless Budget Committee.
Mr. Kemp's persistence in such causes could be his undoing. He lectured party leaders on his issues so often and so long that even supporters hooted him down, one top staff member at the time recalled.
He once caused a stir by writing under the banner of the House Republican Conference that the Federal deficit would vanish if Congress only cut taxes, returned to the gold standard and allowed the resulting boom to lift the economy out of its red ink. It was a position at odds with his party's and his President's demands for spending restraints.
Yet in many other ways, Mr. Kemp is the most orthodox of Reagan conservatives. He strongly opposes abortion in almost every form and strongly backs Israel.
He ardently backed Mr. Reagan's support of the rebellion against Nicaragua's Government, and the President appointed him in 1984 to a panel charged with finding a bipartisan policy on Central America. Typically, Mr. Kemp lined up behind a plan to pump aid into the region, reasoning that any military victory would be fleeting unless the economy offered people a decent living.
He used his post on the foreign operations subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee to promote what was, in the mid-1980's, still a novel idea: free-trade compacts between the United States and its Latin American neighbors to discourage trade wars and promote stability.
But his positions on contentious issues like school prayer, the equal-rights amendment for women, consumer protection, the environment and busing, for example, were deeply conservative and unadvertised.
For years, groups like the League of Conservation Voters, the Consumer Federation of America and the liberal Americans for Democratic Action viewed Mr. Kemp's voting record with dismay. But the American Conservative Union often awarded his votes a perfect 100.
It is a score today's post-revolutionary House Republicans might envy, and one of the reasons he is their national candidate today.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1980, Representative Jack Kemp convinced the Republican Presidential candidate, Ronald Reagan, to press for a big tax cut. Mr. Kemp's supply-side ideas are now Republican dogma, and he is a party standard-bearer. (D. Gorton/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); BUFFALO BILLS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (67%); BUFFALO BILLS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TAX LAW (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); RELIGION (73%); CITIES (68%); TRENDS (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (65%); ATHLETES (60%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); EDUCATION REFORM (53%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; KEMP, JACK F RONALD REAGAN (79%); TRENT LOTT (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); CONNIE MACK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



564 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: POLITICS: THE RUNNING MATE;
Kemp, Going Solo, Hawks Fiscal Remedies

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: VASHON ISLAND, Wash., Aug. 24

 BODY:
In his first solo campaign appearances since becoming Bob Dole's running mate, Jack Kemp struck out for the West today, visiting an isolated prairie town in South Dakota and later addressing several thousand Republicans at a party barbecue on this island suburb of Seattle.
In both places, Mr. Kemp sounded familiar themes of economic growth and interracial healing, and digressed noticeably from the script that he and Mr. Dole had refined since the Republican National Convention only on tax cuts, making loftier promises than Mr. Dole had. 
 In Watertown, S.D., this departure was a mistake: Mr. Kemp misspoke and called Mr. Dole's proposed 15 percent tax cut a 50 percent reduction, eliciting laughter and applause from the 1,200 people gathered on the town's green.
Mr. Kemp told several thousand Republican leaders and party stalwarts from the state of Washington that the tax cuts he and Mr. Dole had outlined so far were "just the start."
And although Mr. Dole has said balancing the budget is a priority he places above even tax cuts, Mr. Kemp said today that the cuts would be accomplished at the very beginning of a Dole-Kemp administration.
"Let me let you in on some really good news," Mr. Kemp said. "The tax cut and the tax relief and the cutting of capital gains rates by 15 percent and the estate tax relief -- that's just the start. We're going to do that in the first hundred days."
As the crowd roared, Mr. Kemp added, "Well, "maybe a couple hundred days." Aides to Mr. Kemp said later that he was just kidding.
He has long believed in tax cuts as the first course of treatment to invigorate the economy, while Mr. Dole has described deficit reduction and a balanced budget as equally important measures.
Even so, Mr. Kemp's comments today were too vague to be considered a clear contradiction of Mr. Dole's policies. And his first day alone on the stump since the convention was characterized for the most part by strongly adhering to the speeches and policies laid out in the campaign so far.
Both of Mr. Kemp's appearances today included personal touches that framed him as a family man. In Watertown, a town founded by his great-grandfather, Mr. Kemp strolled down Kemp Avenue.
Here on Vashon Island, he was introduced by his eldest son, Jeff, a former quarterback for the Seattle Seahawks who still lives in the area. Jeff's wife, Stacy, and his children, Kyle, Kory, Kolby and Keegan, were also on the stage with Mr. Kemp and his wife, Joanne.
Taking the microphone, Mr. Kemp said: "I just want to stand up in front of all of you and say that of all the titles that I have ever achieved -- the greatest title that I have ever achieved, the greatest name that I could ever be called -- is Dad. And now, of course, Grandfather."
In both campaign stops, even though the first was rural, the second suburban and the audiences in both places were almost entirely white, Mr. Kemp nonetheless spoke passionately and in some detail about the need for the Republican Party to reach out to minorities.
His comments affirmed his role in the Dole-Kemp ticket as the candidate sounding the loudest clarion call for inclusion and chiseling a new image for the Republican Party. Already in this campaign, that role has not been easy.
On Friday, when Mr. Kemp appeared before the National Association of Black Journalists in Nashville, one journalist accused him of turning his back on affirmative action. Before being chosen as Mr. Dole's running mate, Mr. Kemp supported affirmative action. Since then, Mr. Kemp has toned down or sidestepped that position.
His voice grew audibly squeaky and his face reddened slightly as he addressed that apparent change of course in Nashville, and the words with which he began his answer seemed revealing.
"I stand here today as a candidate for Vice President of the United States with my friend, the real quarterback of the Dole-Kemp team," Mr. Kemp said. "As I said in San Diego, I'm going to be a great blocker, but I'm on the inside of a very important team for America."
In an interview today aboard his campaign plane, which is named Partner Ship, Mr. Kemp elaborated slightly on that answer.
"I want to be of influence," he said of his decision to run with Mr. Dole. "You have to decide whether you're going to be on the inside working or on the outside throwing long passes."
Mr. Kemp said that on matters about which he feels strongly, he was indeed sharing his opinions with Mr. Dole, but that those conversations would remain private.
He said that he and Mr. Dole had discussed the problems with a proposed constitutional amendment denying automatic American citizenship to the children of illegal immigrants before Mr. Dole's repudiation of the measure on Friday. But he added that Mr. Dole had qualms about the issue even before their talk and that Mr. Dole's decision not to support it was entirely his own.
"I have the opportunity to speak to potentially the next President of the United States," Mr. Kemp said. "Can I do it? I have. Will I in the future? I plan to."
Although his schedule beyond today is still in flux, it now calls for him to visit a number of urban centers and even inner-city areas, including spots in Detroit, St. Louis and Los Angeles, in the next week and a half.
His campaign director, Wayne Berman, said, "Jack Kemp is a guy who can go places that Republican's haven't gone."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA; WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) TAX RELIEF (91%); TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); ESTATE TAX (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); ATHLETES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; KEMP, JACK F JACK KEMP (97%); BOB DOLE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



565 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 3; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
Cowboys Manage a Victory Without Their Missing Parts

BYLINE: By CHARLIE NOBLES 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Aug. 24

 BODY:
Dallas Cowboys Coach Barry Switzer told his players tonight in an emphatic post-game speech that it is time for them to quit worrying about a handful of key players who will not be in uniform when the regular season opens.
"We've been thinking too much about the missing parts," Switzer said. "We've got to focus on the players that are playing, and we've still got the football team to win." 
 The Cowboys tonight broke a three-game exhibition losing streak, defeating the Houston Oilers by 24-19 at the Citrus Bowl.
The victory was not a thing of beauty. Troy Aikman did not complete his first pass until 45 seconds into the second period.
Aikman was then through for the night. The Cowboys, down by 13-10 at halftime, needed a lift from a quarterback in his 16th National Football League season, Wade Wilson, and a tight end recently picked up off waivers, Derek Ware.
Wilson directed five drives, producing three touchdowns and a field goal. Ware caught the last two touchdowns.
"We put a lot more effort and up-tempo play into this game than earlier," Switzer said. "But we're glad to get the preseason over."
During the summer, whispers turned into shouts that the Cowboys, winners of three of the last four Super Bowls, were ripe to be beaten.
"I remember having this same uneasy feeling going into last season," safety Bill Bates said. "But that worked out O.K., and it makes me think this season will, too."
Certainly Dallas enters next week's regular season opener at Chicago in a weakened state, with two of last year's stars out and a third very doubtful.
Wide receiver Michael Irvin is serving a drug suspension until Oct. 1. Running back Emmitt Smith has a sprained left knee that could be problematic for another three weeks. And tight end Jay Novacek has a disk problem in his back that will probably make him iffy for much, if not all, of the season.
The Cowboys also lost four players to free agency -- defensive tackle Russell Maryland, cornerback Larry Brown and linebackers Robert Jones and Dixon Edwards.
The club did acquire two players through the same route -- linebackers Fred Strickland and Broderick Thomas. "The players we've added this year, unlike last year, are quality players," Bates said.
The Cowboys hope to utilize Deion Sanders in Irvin's spot as well as at his usual cornerback post.
"We have managed to keep our core of key players," the owner Jerry Jones said. "With the salary cap, that weakened us a little in our depth. But hopefully once the regular season comes and we get our people back, we'll be just fine."
 
AROUND THE LEAGUE
In a meeting of the teams that lost in last season's conference championship games, the Indianapolis Colts beat the Green Bay Packers, 30-6, behind JIM HARBAUGH, who was 11 of 15 for 223 yards and two touchdowns before leaing the game early in the third quarter. . . . The Steelers put receiver ERNIE MILLS, who tore a knee ligament in Pittsburgh's loss to Dallas in the Super Bowl, on the physically unable to perform list. Mills must stay on the list a minimum of six weeks. . . . The unemployed tight end ERIC GREEN, released by the Dolphins July 9, met for an hour Saturday with Miami Coach JIMMY JOHNSON. "The guy is an up-front guy," Green said. "I respect him and he respects me. I think this thing is going to come together."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: DALLAS COWBOYS; HOUSTON OILERS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (56%); DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS; HOUSTON OILERS DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS (92%); ATHLETES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%); 

PERSON: NOBLES, CHARLIE TROY AIKMAN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



566 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Dole's Economic Plan Is No Riverboat Gamble

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Alan Blinder (Op-Ed, Aug. 20) resurrects an old comment I once made about President Reagan's economic program -- calling it a "riverboat gamble" -- to attack the economic plan put forward by Bob Dole. While Mr. Reagan's program was a gamble, it largely paid off. By contrast, I do not believe Mr. Dole's plan is a gamble at all. It is a good bet. 
 In early 1981 I thought it was a gamble to cut taxes, reinvigorate national defense, control inflation and balance the budget at the same time. Accomplishing even one of these would have been difficult. But Mr. Reagan succeeded on each point except balancing the budget.
It is legitimate to call attention to Mr. Reagan's inability to balance the budget. But it is wrong to say, as Mr. Blinder does, that this means Bob Dole will suffer a similar result if his plan is implemented.
The political landscape has changed radically. We now have Republican control of both houses of Congress for the first time in a generation. And Congressional Republicans have made it clear that whether Mr. Dole or Bill Clinton is President next year, they will continue to press for a balanced budget.
If Mr. Dole becomes President he will have something Ronald Reagan always wanted but never had: the line-item veto. This will insure that Congress cannot pad Presidential budgets with pork-barrel projects and other programs of dubious value.
Most of the growth in spending during the Reagan years came from uncontrolled entitlements. Today there is a much deeper understanding of this problem and a greater likelihood of achieving bipartisan solutions. Under the welfare bill passed by a Republican-led Congress and signed into law by President Clinton, we have reined in an entitlement program.
The end of the Soviet threat means that it will not be necessary for Mr. Dole to engage in a massive defense spending increase, as President Reagan had to do.
it will be much more achievable for a President Dole to keep to his promises to balance the Federal budget and cut taxes than for President Reagan. And we do need a tax cut. Federal taxes are now at their second-highest level in American history, at 20.5 percent of the gross domestic product.
The Dole plan is no "riverboat gamble." It is a responsible approach to the twin problems of excessive taxation and sluggish growth.
 
HOWARD BAKER
Washington, Aug. 21, 1996
 
The writer, Senate majority leader from 1981 to 1985, was Mr. Reagan's chief of staff, 1987-88.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGETS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); INFLATION (70%); HISTORY (50%); 

PERSON: BAKER, HOWARD; BLINDER, ALAN S RONALD REAGAN (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



567 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 187 words

HEADLINE: Dole's Economic Plan Is No Riverboat Gamble;
First Fix the Structure

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Even if Bob Dole justifiably believes that the Federal budget can be balanced atop a 15 percent tax cut (news analysis, Aug. 20), his economic platform still fails to address the forces driving America's tenuous job market. 
 According to supply-siders, tax cuts stimulate growth and create new jobs. Our economic woes, however, extend more from the type of economy that is growing than from its rate of expansion.
Many large businesses, despite reaping record profits, are laying off employees to satisfy the stock market's preference for lean payrolls. While job growth has kept up with corporate downsizing, foreign competition and the economy's drift toward the service sector have spawned new jobs that are either low-paying or require skills that many displaced workers don't have.
Mr. Dole's prescription for the economy may give some temporary relief to strapped wage-earners. But a plan that grows the economy without attacking its structural problems will perpetuate the economic trends that have made Americans so anxious about the future.
 
 BEN KRULL
New York, Aug. 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); TRENDS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB BOB DOLE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



568 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 37; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 5129 words

HEADLINE: THE DEMOCRATS THEN AND NOW;
The Daleys of Chicago

BYLINE: By James Atlas; James Atlas, an editor of The New York Times Magazine, is at work on a biography of Saul Bellow.

 BODY:
On a rainy spring night early in May, a somber, wood-paneled reception room in the Rayburn House Office Building is decked out for a party billed as "A Taste of Chicago." Balloons hang from the ceiling and a blues band is riffing in the corner. The bar is jammed. In the center of the room is a long table heaped high with platters of Vienna hot dogs, spareribs and deep-dish pizza -- indigenous Chicago cuisine. The party is being given to introduce Washington to the host city of its forthcoming Democratic convention, the first to be held there since the debacle of 1968.
The Mayor of Chicago is busy working the room. At 54, Richard M. Daley doesn't carry his father's weight -- even in the most literal sense. Rich, Richie or Little Richie, as people around town call him -- or, more disparagingly still, R2D2 -- is trimmer than his bulky, monolithic father, Richard J. The scowling, bejowled face that used to fill the TV screen on the local news for two decades has been replaced by a less-minatory image -- a Daley for the 90's. 
 The Mayor's press secretary, Jim Williams, a polished former TV reporter, introduces me to the Mayor. Daley shakes my hand warily. Journalists make the Mayor nervous. They quote him. Like his father, Richard M. is famously inept with the English language: "The more killing and homicides you have, the more havoc it prevents"; "You've got to have your order in business." (Nothing, however, rivals his father's legendary proclamation, uttered in the wake of the '68 Democratic convention riot: "The policeman isn't there to create disorder. The policeman is there to preserve disorder.") "He's an incredibly inarticulate and awkward person, full of malapropisms like his dad," the Chicago-based writer Alex Kotlowitz had briefed me. "But he's also more sensitive." When the Mayor's son, Patrick, then a teen-ager, had a raucous party at the family's Michigan summer home and got into trouble with the cops four years ago, Daley wept at the news conference.
I also meet the Mayor's younger brother William, 48, a Clinton adviser widely credited with having pushed Nafta through a recalcitrant Congress. Bill, as everyone calls him, is the antithesis of Rich. Bald where his brother is full-haired, smooth-talking where his brother is not, he has been described as "the brains behind the Mayor." But the brothers are famously close; they go on fishing trips together. "It doesn't matter if they haven't talked for two days or two weeks, they're always there for each other," says Rahm Immanuel, a director of special projects in the White House (and a former Chicago boy: he was Richie's mayoral-campaign finance director).
An able strategist who knows his way around Washington, Bill Daley served as Clinton's Illinois chairman in the '92 election and was rumored to have been in the running for Secretary of Transportation. After that post failed to materialize and he finished with Nafta, he returned to his lucrative corporate law practice in Chicago, but he is still close to the President and is the co-chairman of the host committee of the '96 convention. We make arrangements to meet again in Chicago.
Surrounded by his entourage, the Mayor looks tense. For all the warm feelings in the room, the party is a reminder of what happened 28 years ago. The police riot that exploded in front of the Conrad Hilton Hotel in August 1968 has become part of the iconography of American history. "Everything since Chicago has had a new intensity -- that of polarization, of confrontation, of antagonism and fear," Tom Wicker wrote in this magazine on the first anniversary of the '68 convention.
Nineteen years old and home from college for the summer, I was a foot soldier for the counterculture during that memorable August week, skirmishing nightly with the cops in Lincoln Park, dodging canisters of tear gas, running through the glass-strewn streets in my Keds -- a warm-up for the big confrontation that would embarrass the Democrats and probably cost them the Presidency. The whole world is watching, we chanted as the National Guard jeeps with barbed wire on their front fenders rolled down Michigan Avenue. And it was. Meanwhile at the International Amphitheater, Senator Abe Ribicoff of Connecticut was denouncing the "Gestapo tactics in the streets of Chicago." (David Brinkley, who was covering the convention for NBC, confirms that the Mayor wasn't screaming "faker!" at Ribicoff on national television that night, as aides claimed, but a more pointed epithet.)
Daley, who at that point had ruled the city with an iron fist for more than a decade, never quite recovered from the blow. In its day, the formidable government apparatus he had built, known as the Machine, controlled tens of thousands of city workers; as chairman of the Cook County Democratic Party Central Committee, Daley commanded power equal to that post's Soviet-sounding name. When John F. Kennedy campaigned just four days before the 1960 election, Daley turned out a million people in the streets. But in 1972, Daley's Cook County delegation was unseated at the Democratic convention in Miami Beach by an Afro-adorned Jesse Jackson and what Jackson's biographer, Marshall Frady, calls "a troupe of liberal irregulars." Four years later, the Mayor died of a heart attack, ending a 21-year reign. In the years that followed, his fabled Machine was dismantled by a succession of mayors too hapless to control it. And the country itself changed; suddenly it was full of vocal, politically savvy constituencies that wouldn't allow themselves to be ruled.
As I gaze around the room at the "Taste of Chicago" wingding, I'm struck by the diversity of the crowd. On hand are plenty of "notables" -- as Chicagoans like to describe important people -- to confer legitimacy on the event, seasoned pols like Senators Paul Simon and Carol Moseley-Braun, the Reverend Jesse Jackson and Representative Henry Hyde, head of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "The roles that African-Americans are playing, the roles that women are playing -- unheard of," asserts Ertharin Cousin, director of the White House liaison office at the State Department. "We were all standing outside. Now we have positions inside." Richie Daley, she contends, is "an inclusive Mayor." It sure looks that way.
Around 7, Hillary Rodham Clinton makes an appearance. Raised in suburban Park Ridge, the First Lady is proud of her association with Chicago. She gives a boosterish speech and makes a sports joke to demonstrate her insider credentials. By the time of the convention, she says, "the Bulls will have won the championship and the Cubs will be in first place." The room breaks up: the Cubs haven't won a pennant since 1945.
After Hillary and her handlers sweep out the door, people begin to drift away. "Chicago really knows how to throw a party," declares Cardiss Collins, a black congresswoman from the West Side. It is a good party. I stay so long that by the time I look around to say goodbye to the Mayor, he has slipped off to Jesse Jackson's house for a visit.
STRIDING THROUGH THE VAULTED CORRIDORS OF O'HARE International Airport the next day, I glance at the local newspapers in the vending machines. "U.S. Audit Clears Moseley-Braun," reads the headline in The Chicago Tribune. She has been cleared of allegations that she spent campaign funds for her personal use. Robert Belcaster, the head of the Chicago Transit Authority, has been forced to resign after it was divulged that he purchased stock in a company commissioned by the C.T.A. to sell the city experimental "clean fuel" buses. I'm glad to see that Chicago hasn't lost its talent for political sleaze. (Chicagoans joke that the city slogan, Urbs in Horto -- City in a Garden -- should be changed to Ubi Est Mea?: Where's Mine?)
I head into town, stunned as always by the dramatic cluster of skyscrapers on the horizon. "Chicagoland," that mythic realm invoked in local ad campaigns, still seems intact -- "an enchanted place like Alice's Wonderland or the fairy tales' never-never land," as Saul Bellow has wryly written, "though it looks, at times, like the doughboys' no-man's-land." Michigan Avenue is spiffier than ever. Tiffany and Bulgari shops have moved in since my last visit. The limestone Water Tower, the only major structure to survive the fire supposedly started by Mrs. O'Leary's cow, has been sandblasted clean.
There are other big changes afoot, and they aren't only cosmetic. The Mayor has taken over the school board, after supporting a bill that gives him the right to pick not only the five members but also the superintendent, known in Chicago as the chief executive officer -- an impressive consolidation of power that is being closely monitored by Rudolph Giuliani (Giuliano, as the Mayor calls him) and other big-city mayors embattled with their school boards. He also endorsed the takeover of the troubled Chicago Housing Authority by Clinton's Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Henry G. Cisneros. Chicago is again becoming the city it had been in the original Daley's administration: The City That Works. Its population has shrunk by nearly a million in the last four decades, from 3.6 million to 2.8 million -- continued evidence of white flight. But as far as Daley is concerned, this exodus makes the city more manageable. "We don't need more people." For this guy, there is no bad news.
It is at the Mayor's daily news conference that I get my first real glimpse of Daley in action. He can thrust and parry as aggressively as his old man. Asked by a reporter what role Jesse Jackson might play at the convention, he answers, "He's always had a role in all the conventions," and adds with a laugh, "sometimes a different role," referring to Jackson's power play in the 1972 convention. What about the resignation of Robert Belcaster as head of the C.T.A.? An editorial in the morning's Chicago Tribune contended that Belcaster was a victim of "a political lynching" by Daley, who used the stock purchase as an excuse to push Belcaster "out the door."
"I had nothing to do with him purchasing stock," the Mayor says heatedly. "I hope that the ivory tower realizes this."
"He's gone because why?" shouts a reporter from the back of the room.
"Because he resigned," the Mayor answers.
He is less combative discussing his own agenda -- in this case unveiling a new system for issuing food-vending licenses to reduce the bureaucracy. "Our goal is to bring down the walls of regulation on businesses," he says. He recites a litany of redundant licenses that Chicago food-service businesses must obtain, then grows apoplectic as he inveighs against the absurdity of "gum-ball-machine permits."
"He thinks more like a businessman than a politician," Marshall M. Holleb, a lawyer active in development around the city, tells me. "His dad ran the city on patronage; he's running it like a business -- out-sourcing, privatizing. He hates studies and reports; he wants quick action."
When the conference is over, Daley strides to the elevator, eager to get away. After the doors shut, he leans back in the corner, closes his eyes and breathes a heavy sigh.
T O UNDERSTAND THE MAYOR'S "ALL POLITICS IS LOCAL" mentality you have to go back to the brown bungalow on South Lowe Avenue in the Bridgeport neighborhood where he was born and raised. Five miles southwest of the Loop, the city's business district, it's a neighborhood that has changed less than just about any other in Chicago over the last century, a white, working-class community of close-knit Italian, Polish, German and Irish families. Many of its residents work in City Hall, the County Building, the fire and police departments. They're the essence of blue-collar Chicago.
The Mayor's father was a family man, a devout Irish Catholic married to the same woman -- Eleanor, better known as "Sis" -- all his life. Obedient to routine, he rarely traveled and made a point of having dinner at home with his seven children. (Rich was the oldest son.) Every morning before work, Daley pere stopped in at St. Peter's Church on Madison Street in the Loop. A favorite social activity was attending wakes.
His son has emulated this pattern of stability. He left his hometown only briefly -- for a two-year stint at Providence College in Rhode Island -- but earned his bachelor's and law degrees from DePaul University. (It took him three tries to pass his bar exam.) He raised his own family in a house just three blocks from where he was born. When he went into politics, he claims, he did it on his own. His father never encouraged him to follow in his footsteps? "No. He said: 'I never want to see you on my doorstep complaining about your decision -- whatever you want to do, you do. But you have to make up your mind.' " The Mayor has given his own three children the same advice -- and so far they have not been tempted by politics. His oldest daughter, Nora, is in the art business in New York; Patrick is a college student; the youngest, Elizabeth, is still in elementary school.
We head west in the Mayor's Town Car on our way to visit the Terraces of Old Irving Park, a new development for young middle-class professionals improbably situated right next to the Kennedy Expressway. As he expounds his urban policy, the Mayor returns obsessively to certain themes. "Immediate tow, immediate tow," he keeps repeating. It's not until the third or fourth time that I even understand what he's saying: abandoned cars should be promptly removed from the streets.
We turn off the expressway onto a residential street. From the living rooms of these new homes -- they cost up to $325,000 -- residents can hear the roar and grind of heavy trucks and can see the trucks through the window. There's also a proposal to build an asphalt plant nearby, which has caused the neighborhood great consternation. But half of the 68 units have been sold. "It's like a little Lincoln Park," says the developer, referring to the city's premier yuppie address. He is moving there himself. "The whole idea is to get the middle class back into the city." And not just the middle class: the Mayor has become deeply involved in renovation projects on both the West and the South Sides, providing incentives for private developers to build low-cost housing in poor black neighborhoods. This has been "the most active, supportive administration I've known in 36 years," says Bishop Arthur Brazier of the Apostolic Church of God.
Our next stop is the Vienna Sausage Factory, which has the reverse problem of the Irving Park development: here developers had threatened to put in residential units that would have forced the factory to relocate to the suburbs. The Mayor negotiated a deal that provided compensation for the developers, enabling the factory to remain, and the workers are grateful. As we tour the floor in our white coats and gauze caps, picking our way through puddles of blood past stainless-steel tables where men are carving up huge slabs of meat, a burst of applause rings out.
It's like this everywhere we go: the Mayor is greeted as a hero. No doubt this reflects a selective itinerary; I know there are pockets of opposition. But not many. Daley, in office since 1989, won the last election with 73 percent of the vote, and some people are starting to call him what they called his father: Mayor for Life. He has made a lot of ineffectual moves: failing to build a new airport; failing to renovate the Bears' stadium, Soldier Field; failing -- so far -- to make more than symbolic inroads in the slums (the slums that his father insisted weren't there). But he has done what Richard J. Daley could never do: he has if not unified at least pacified the city. Unlike faction-riven New York, Chicago operates on the principles of a mom-and-pop shop.
Not that he doesn't have his critics. The former Black Panther Bobby Rush, now a Democratic congressman from Chicago, insists that blacks are worse off than ever. "There's a growing sense of unfairness as it relates to empowerment issues," he maintains, pointing out that there are fewer high-ranking blacks in city government jobs than there were under Harold Washington, the city's first black mayor. "I think we're losing ground." Others remark on the Mayor's willingness to employ his father's hardball tactics. "You can't get on the wrong side of the guy," observes the Chicago lawyer-author and "notable" Scott Turow. "When you cross him you have made an enemy of real stature."
On the way back to City Hall, we drive past a huddle of low red-brick apartment buildings with broken windows and garbage-strewn playgrounds. What are you going to do about places like this? I ask the Mayor. "It seemed like a good idea at the time," he says of the projects that his father's administration built all over Chicago during the 50's and early 60's, segregating blacks in hulking apartment blocks miles from downtown. (Chicago is one of the most segregated big cities in the country.) "When they were built, they were like the Taj Mahal. It worked for two generations, but people didn't stay. They forgot about social services." But what now? How to integrate these disenfranchised communities into the booming corporate economy? The Mayor is vague. "You cannot put people in housing without jobs. You can build all the homes in America, but you've got to have jobs."
It's nearly 5 o'clock. I decide to pass up the Greek Independence Day reception and the 6:45 "infrastructure meeting" with members of the Mayor's cabinet. Another thing that amazes me about this Mayor: his sitzfleisch, his capacity for sitting in a chair and working. He claims to need only three or four hours of sleep. Late at night he reads -- sometimes mysteries, sometimes more substantial fare. He has just finished "Hitler's Willing Executioners," by Daniel Jonah Goldhagen, and David Herbert Donald's enormous biography of Lincoln. He works out daily, even when he's on the road. His job infuses him with energy; like Clinton, he loves to go among the people, soaking up adulation. His stamina is incredible.
I, though, am ready to pack it in for the day. I have an invitation to the gala opening of "Art 1996 Chicago" at Navy Pier. When I inform the Mayor that I'm peeling off, he looks crestfallen. An art fair? How could art -- how could anything? -- compete with attending receptions and visiting sausage factories?
At "Art 1996 Chicago," the works on the hardwood walls -- by Hockney, Giacometti, Dubuffet -- are going for $40,000 and up, and selling briskly. To this well-heeled crowd, Daley is a savior. He encouraged development, established the city as a world financial center, made some peace with minority groups. "He saved the city," a scion of one of the leading real-estate dynasties attests -- a common refrain. "The signal that's going out loud and clear is that Chicago is pro-business," a local entrepreneur testified at the morning news conference. And it is so: I see that for the businessmen of Chicago it is good.
Some businessmen, though, are more equal than others. The next morning I arrive at the Bismarck Hotel, a pols hangout since the 20's, to attend a breakfast the Mayor is having with 15 leaders from Chicago's African and Caribbean community. Among those present are Sandy Osei-Agyeman of AFAM Concept Inc., a hair products company; Augustine Afriyie of the Oakley Construction Company; Felicia Johnson, a neighborhood activist from the South Side. (Chicago's large black community includes 15,000 Ghanians, 40,000 Nigerians and 100,000 Caribbeans.)
Their grievances are straightforward: why haven't Africans been appointed to positions in the Daley administration? Why have they been virtually left out of the hiring and contract-awards processes in Chicago? Afriyie notes that his company submitted a proposal to the Board of Education to do construction work on city schools and has been chosen only for maintenance contracts worth less than $5,000. "We are not asking for a handout," insists Femi Odere, the founder of New Africa Publications. "We are asking for an opportunity."
The Mayor is gracious in return, but when it comes to details, he responds with a barrage of generalities: "I will look at that. . . ." "Economic opportunity is the key. . . ." "Building the bridge stronger and widening it. . . ." The Mayor is asked if he will commit to a breakfast next year. "Yes," he answers. "The breakfast was good." So it isn't a total loss.
As we walk back to City Hall, I ask the Mayor about Afriyie's complaint of not being allowed to bid on city construction contracts. "He got the contract," the Mayor says abruptly, then gives his mirthless laugh. "He wanted more. It's human nature."
W ILLIAM DALEY'S OFFICE AT THE law firm of Mayer, Brown & Platt, just three blocks south of his brother's in a gleaming new office tower on LaSalle, Chicago's equivalent of Wall Street, is on the 33d floor. From its marble-floored lobby you can see out over the clustered high-rises of the Loop to the lake beyond, where sailboats glide on the horizon. After a few minutes' wait, Bill ushers me into his corner office. It's a busy day, he apologizes; the convention is approaching, and as co-host he is beginning to feel the crunch.
Was it hard to convince the Democrats to return to the scene of their debacle? He shakes his head. "It seemed smart for Rich to get the city back on the national map. And it was smart politics for Bill to be in the Midwest." Chicago is a key player in the election, he reminds me, quoting Mark Penn, of Penn & Schoen, the President's pollsters: "The votes Clinton needs to win are within 500 miles of Chicago."
Unlike his brother, who responds to questions about his past with monosyllabic retorts ("Education was the key -- school and sports"), Bill is expansive on the subject of his political childhood. The apparatchik-like figure who presided so menacingly over Chicago politics for two decades bears no resemblance to the father he knew. "My dad was tolerant. The truth is, he was very understanding. Whether it was people leaving the church or getting in trouble. He could be pretty tough, but in a personal sense he wasn't -- not to us."
Bill Daley has vivid memories of the '68 convention. "I was in the booth when Cronkite interviewed my dad," he says. Always a staunch Kennedy man, Daley was enthusiastically supportive of Robert Kennedy ("Daley means the ball game," Kennedy said); after Kennedy's assassination in June 1968, he switched his focus to Ted. With just a few hours to go before the convention opened in Chicago, the Mayor delayed endorsing the front-runner, Hubert H. Humphrey, anticipating that Ted might throw his hat into the ring. "My father told me there was a strong possibility that they would endorse Kennedy instead of Humphrey," he recalls. "He told me: 'Don't go out. I want you to stay home and answer the phone. There's gonna be a lot of calls.' "
But when Daley learned that Kennedy was definitely out of the race, he declared the Illinois caucus for Humphrey. "I remember it so well," Bill says. "My dad called up Humphrey and said: 'Be your own man, Hubert. And that goes for the war, too.' " (Humphrey failed to follow Daley's advice, delaying a statement of opposition to the Vietnam War until Sept. 30; many believe it cost him the election.)
How did the brothers end up in politics? "My dad never pushed it," Bill says genially, leaning back in his wing chair. "But he was such a force in our lives, in a positive way: if you called him, you never got told by a secretary that he was in a meeting. He had a positive attitude toward politics -- I wish I had one." After Bill Daley's Nafta victory, there were rumors that he would run for the Senate seat that fell vacant with Paul Simon's retirement, but he decided against it. "I'll be 48. If you're going to do it, you've got to do it for two terms. I kind of like the privacy I have. I got two brothers in politics, that's enough." (One brother, John, a former state senator, is now a county commissioner.)
Anyway, he has his hands full with Richie. Politics is a collaborative effort in the Daley family. When Rich Daley ran for Cook County State's Attorney in 1980, Bill managed his campaign. Three years later, when Rich made his first run for Mayor, against Harold Washington and Jane Byrne, Bill was again instrumental in setting a moderate course. Daley lost that election, but in 1989, two years after Washington died of a sudden heart attack, he triumphed against Eugene Sawyer, a black alderman who had become the interim Mayor. Refusing to play the race card, Daley defined himself as a candidate determined to calm Chicago's racial jitters. "The nerves of the city were frayed from racial confrontation," David Axelrod, Daley's media adviser, told the political correspondent (and Chicago boy) Sidney Blumenthal. "The margin for error was small. People needed to know Daley was a conciliator." He won with less than 10 percent of the black vote.
Two decades earlier, when the city went up in flames after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., his father had issued notorious orders to "shoot to kill any arsonist" and "shoot to maim or cripple any one looting." Rich Daley inhabits a different era. To remain a player, he was forced to modernize himself. "The tension's down," Bill says. "He's made a consistent effort to lower the rhetoric."
How are the two brothers different? "Richie's a lot more visceral," Bill says. "I've never met anybody in politics who has a better gut for what normal people are thinking." And how is Rich different from his father? "He probably shows his emotions more. Times have changed. Rich's big moves have been outside that structure -- the Organization." The Organization: I notice they don't refer to the Machine anymore. You know an institution is gone when it loses its name.
SINCE IT'S FRIDAY, THE MAYOR HAS A LESS-RIGOROUS schedule than usual -- a mere 10-hour day. The last event on his log is our interview. One subject I want to ask him about is the demolition of much of the Henry Horner Homes. Virtually adjacent to the United Center, Chicago's new stadium and the site of the convention, the project is a natural showcase for President Clinton's much-publicized campaign to change the face of public housing: it exemplifies the disastrous outcome of the now-discredited practice during the 50's and 60's of erecting massive high-rise developments deliberately isolated from the rest of the city. About $72 million in H.U.D. money has been allocated for the first phase of the Horner redevelopment plan. Demolition of gutted buildings began last year, and Secretary of Housing Cisneros, eager to demonstrate substantive achievement, has been pressing to get work -- visible construction work -- started before the convention.
"The only way to move ahead with H.H. is with the support of the people," the Mayor says, gesturing at me with the unlighted cigar he habitually chews. "No Federal official's gonna do it. So H.H. is the first one off the ground. That's how you rebuild a community. Someone doesn't come from Washington and say this, this and that."
The Mayor is preparing to assume the presidency of the United States Conference of Mayors in Cleveland the next month. What is his agenda? "Drug policy, jobs and economic development," he says firmly. "Empower the communities. Welfare is killing this country." But above all, he wants to instill in the mayors of America a sense of urgency about education. (Chicago is trying to reduce a 43 percent dropout rate in its high schools.) "An educated work force, that's what you need. I got business leaders saying, 'I got a hundred jobs, had a hundred people fill out applications and can't hire one.' Businesses are run by computers now; you have to be able to read and write. We're taking city colleges, making them part of the whole vocational training. School-to-work programs -- I call it 'windows of opportunity.' "
How has the city changed since '68? "A lot of people have died," Daley says with his brusque, snorting laugh -- the one he gives when he's uneasy. "It changes. Everything changes. That's the thing about America."
His own life has changed. Three years ago the Mayor gave up his house on South Emerald in Bridgeport and moved to a town house in the new Central Station development, south of the Loop. It was a controversial move; the Daleys had been in Bridgeport for a century. Critics charged that he was abandoning his constituency; the press pointed out that he was moving close to where he hoped to put up a $2 billion casino-entertainment complex and that the Mayor's former law firm, Daley & George, had done legal work on the zoning changes for the development.
It's not Daley's favorite subject. "I always kept my roots," he bristled when a Tribune reporter questioned the move. "First of all, my role as a mayor is to work with people from all walks of life. Also, I have a role as a father and husband. I cherish those things."
In other ways, too, he's kept his roots. Unlike so many big-city mayors, Daley has no larger political ambition; being Mayor of Chicago is an end in itself. Is he really Mayor for Life? "The day I don't have this fire in the belly, the day I don't enjoy this meeting, the day I don't have a dialogue with people, that's the day I'm gonna leave."
Suddenly the Mayor brings up something I had been reluctant to ask him about: his son Kevin, who died of spina bifada in 1981 at the age of 2. "One thing my father taught me: you can always lose. You act the same way when you win as when you lose. It's all part of life. I lost a son. The loss of my son had more effect than any loss of a lifetime. You can always lose an election, but when you lose a child it has an overwhelming impact on you and on your family. I had my priorities straightened out long before elections." (Bill Daley also had a son who died, of lung disease, when he was 8.)
I ask the Mayor about the upcoming Democratic convention. Is he worried about a repeat of '68? "Times are different," he says. "We're ready." He's looking forward to some heavy policy discussions with Clinton. "We talked a lot about these issues -- housing, education -- when he was here in '92." They still have regular conversations by phone.
Before I pack up my tape recorder, the Mayor wants to show off the black canvas briefcase that's been ordered for all Chicago police officers -- 14,000 briefcases. "This is important," he says in a low monotone, calling my attention to their dividers. "This way everyone can file their memos."
He goes and stands behind his father's desk, now his, leafing through his papers. He doesn't look up when I say goodbye.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The man who would be Mayor for Life. (pg. 37); The City That Works will work again if the Mayor has his way. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH SAAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); ADOLESCENTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (72%); JOURNALISM (72%); ELECTIONS (70%); WRITERS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); HOMICIDE (64%); 

PERSON: DALEY, RICHARD M (MAYOR); DALEY, RICHARD M (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); ATLAS, JAMES HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



569 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 40; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3851 words

HEADLINE: Up In Smoke

BYLINE: By Luisita Lopez Torregrosa; Luisita Lopez Torregrosa, a writer in New York, lived in North Carolina for several years. This is her first article for the Magazine.

 BODY:
ON THE LOW EDGE OF THE LUSH NORTH CAROLINA foothills, the flat countryside of Wayne County offers little to excite the eye. For miles there is nothing but scrub pines and hog farms, tract houses with satellite dishes and mobile homes on cinder blocks. Yet, this stretch of spare scenery does claim one distinction: it is tobacco country, perhaps the best in the world. It is where Randier Lee McCullen, 48, was born to tobacco, where he has grown it since he was a boy, as did his father and his grandfather, and four and five generations of thousands of other North Carolinians for whom tobacco is a birthright, their livelihood and their heritage.
The McCullen homestead appears suddenly, some 15 miles south of Goldsboro, a Bible-belt town of 30,000 that is the seat of Wayne County. The farmhouse stands back from a blacktop, two-lane road, a two-story antebellum white clapboard house that rises on a plain field that is red with canna lilies. 
 Randy McCullen's parents live there, on the western edge of the nearly 1,500 acres they co-own with their only son. But Randy runs the farm, where they grow corn and wheat as well as tobacco, and his office is set out half a mile from the house, down and around a winding dirt track that runs through the property.
"My parents and grandparents were tobacco farmers," he says. "And so were my wife's parents and grandparents." Johnnie Erastus McCullen, his paternal grandfather, started out growing potatoes and tobacco at the turn of the century in this county. Randy's father, R. E. McCullen, inherited his patch of tobacco, five acres near Dobbersville, in 1953, part of a 50-acre plot that Johnnie Erastus had bought in the early 40's for just $3,900. Now, more than 50 years later, the McCullens' holdings are worth close to $2 million.
"So, you see, we've been raising tobacco for a long time," Randy says. "But now there is a great deal of uncertainty because there are forces from all directions against tobacco. I tell you one thing -- the deck is stacked against the tobacco farmer. But we still feel like we grow the best tobacco in the world in eastern North Carolina, and we will continue to grow tobacco as long as we can."
When I bring up the more than 400,000 smoking-related deaths that occur in this nation every year, he tilts back in his chair, clasps his hands behind his neck and replies calmly, having expected the question. "We feel that in moderation -- a pack a day -- tobacco would not hurt you." But he wouldn't know himself; he has never smoked. "I do not feel, as a tobacco farmer -- and I think I speak for most of them -- that we are responsible for any disease. . . . We really don't see ourselves growing a product that's harmful to anyone. I don't think you'll find a farmer that'll feel guilty about growing tobacco."
We've already talked several times when we meet one morning at 5 at the Southern Belle coffee shop in Mount Olive, where his friends -- mostly everyone in business in the area -- gather at dawn on weekdays. Slowly, the crowd grows. With nods and mumbled hellos, they hunch down over their coffee and biscuits, occasionally offering up a wry comment. Except for a machine-shop owner, an old-timer who sits frowning at the far end of the table, no one smokes.
There's rambling talk about the business that's on everyone's mind, the run of bad news about the tobacco industry. The gathering storm could ruin these folks, and they know it. But at the Southern Belle this morning the dozen men at the table are putting the best face on things, scoffing at the anti-tobacco forces as maniacal, obsessed enemies of freedom of choice and the free market. Keith Beavers, a fifth-generation tobacco grower, sums up with what is, I strongly suspect, a well-rehearsed line. "Corn feeds the nation," he says, "but tobacco pays the bills."
Ruddy-faced and broad-backed, his black-and-red flannel shirt straining at his belly, Beavers, at 48, represents the new generation of tobacco farmers -- articulate, college-educated, media-wise, Republican, a tobacco activist who has joined hundreds of other farmers on bus trips to Washington to buttonhole and badger Congressmen. Beavers tends 70 acres of tobacco, well above the regional average of 25 acres. He also grows corn and sweet potatoes and has started raising beef cattle on his 1,000-acre farm in neighboring Duplin County. But tobacco is what he grew up on, what put food on the table, and to this day he identifies himself as a tobacco farmer. "It'll come to an end someday," he says resignedly. "But not in my lifetime. I tell you, without tobacco, I'd quit farming."
At the other side of the table, Dennis Goodwin, his dark pompadour slicked back and a paisley tie tucked in a tailored business suit, introduces himself -- the pastor of the local United Methodist Church and Mount Olive's "biggest S.O.B." He laughs as he says: "The national Methodist Church board opposes tobacco, but not alcohol. It opposes apple pie and baseball, all the good things." People are chuckling, eyes on him as he rises to go. "Look," he says to me, dead serious now, "tobacco is a big money crop. If something could take its place, people would grow it."
F ROM POINTS NORTH, WHERE THE antitobacco war has its high command, in the White House and in numerous legal, health and environmental organizations, the battle against the $45 billion industry has spread far and wide, from the marketplace to the workplace, from restaurants to airports to homes. Kicked into high gear by the Clinton Administration in the summer of 1995, the campaign has taken on the aspects of a crusade, nothing less than the largest and broadest attack ever on a single American industry.
All this comes about at a time when American cigarette production is actually greater than it was 10 years ago. "Exports -- mostly to Western Europe and Japan, the biggest foreign buyers of American tobacco -- have offset the decline in domestic consumption," says Blake Brown, an agricultural economist at North Carolina State University. Last year was a record year, he says, with probably the largest American cigarette production ever.
But out in the field the growers worry. They worry that the Food and Drug Administration will succeed in having tobacco declared a drug. And they worry that the American manufacturers will continue to expand their business overseas, buying more tobacco from Brazil and Zimbabwe and India and building factories in largely untapped smoking-friendly markets in regions like Southeast Asia. Already, American production of flue-cured tobacco has declined and constitutes just 9 percent of the world market. That is still more than anyone else produces, with the exception of China, which accounts for 40 percent of the world's tobacco (and consumes almost all of that amount).
What concerns tobacco growers, McCullen says, is losing the freedom to sell their crop. "If the cigarette manufacturers for some reason lose their market share or marketplace, that would affect the grower tremendously. . . . If Philip Morris has problems, the tobacco farmer has problems. We have to be able to market our tobacco. It's a chain, and everybody has to come together and support each other.
"We feel like we grow the best tobacco in the world" -- by that he means flue-cured tobacco, widely regarded by experts as the best cigarette tobacco because of its ideal balance of sugars and nicotine. "It's high in nicotine. Extremely high. It's high in tar, and it's quality. It's just high-quality tobacco." When I ask McCullen if he believes that what he calls the "negative forces" -- lawyers, the media, liberals, the medical establishment -- will prevail over the big tobacco allies in Congress, who are the beneficiaries of the more than $2 million that the tobacco companies have already forked over in political contributions since the beginning of 1995, he smiles.
Although McCullen is a Democrat and says he will vote for President Clinton, he points to Bob Dole's recent defense of the tobacco industry: "Dole is a tremendous supporter. He comes from a farm state and understands farmers." But there's another reason, he says, that big tobacco will survive: "Tobacco generates income. Tremendous amount of taxes."
In 1994, each acre of tobacco grown in the United States for domestic use brought in $43,000 in state and Federal excise taxes at the retail level. Some of that money trickles down to the farm. In fact, it more than trickles. Tobacco sells at around $1.80 a pound but it costs only $1 a pound to produce, and a single acre can yield as much as 2,500 pounds. While the McCullens grow only 70 to 75 acres of tobacco, they yield more revenue than their other crops -- around $4,000 per acre, an annual gross of $250,000 to $275,000.
That has made McCullen a big farmer in a region of small farmers and has given his family an ease of living that is not common in North Carolina, where median family income is $39,100. It pays for a private-college education for his daughter, for the McCullens' lakeside cedar house and for the middle-class amenities that they enjoy -- a fireplace-size television set, a Jet Ski, a $30,000 Chevy Suburban, a Corvette, a pickup truck for his son and Easter Week holidays with friends at Myrtle Beach, S.C.
As the bumper stickers say in eastern North Carolina: "Tobacco money pays my bills!"
IT WASN'T ALWAYS THAT WAY. BACK IN THE pre-Depression era, prices fluctuated wildly and growers floundered from season to season, at the mercy of the marketplace, the weather and the powerful cartel of cigarette manufacturers. But in the 1930's, at the height of the New Deal, the Federal Government stepped in and established allotments (the number of acres a farmer is allowed to plant) and price-support programs for a range of commodities with the idea of limiting supply in order to force prices up.
"The Government," says Blake Brown, "came in and said, 'It looks like you've been growing five acres of tobacco, so we're going to give you an allotment for five acres." Combined with a Government-guaranteed price floor -- around $1.60 a pound this year -- the allotments evolved into small gold mines. They became attached to farms, greatly enhancing their value, and were passed along like stocks and bonds through the generations. In effect, each tobacco farmer was issued a share in a Government-sponsored monopoly. "If corporations did this, they'd probably be subjected to anti-trust suits," Brown says.
The Federal Government's role is not restricted to allotments and price supports. The Agriculture Department determines tobacco grades, price supports and limits on acreage. But it also plays a more obscure, but perhaps even more crucial role. It can ban, as it did in 1957, any variety of tobacco that the cigarette manufacturers don't want to buy, even if the farmers themselves prefer to grow that variety.
Old hands recall the mysterious case of Coker 139, a tobacco seed produced by the Coker Pedigreed Seed Company of Hartsville, S.C., that became the rage among growers in the early 50's. "It was a perfect variety," Bill Lamm, a retired agricultural extension agent, told me when we first met. At the time of the Coker furor, Lamm was the tobacco agent in Wayne County. "It was chemically well balanced," he continued. "It cured easily. It yielded tremendous poundage per acre. It was very resistant to disease. It had moderate levels of nicotine. It was so popular that most of the tobacco acreage was planted with it. It looked like utopia."
But the Federal Government banned it in January 1957. The growers protested, and Coker became the hottest farm issue in the Carolinas, prompting the chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Olin D. Johnson, a firebrand South Carolina Democrat, to accuse the Agriculture Department of "Hitler tactics." Johnson, one of the great legends of Dixiecrat politics, was standing up for his constituents, the South Carolina company that produced Coker 139 and the Clemson University scientists who gave it their approval. But North Carolina officials and tobacco experts joined the cigarette companies and their partner, the Federal Government. Against that alliance, the farmers were impotent, and Coker 139 was finished.
The Agriculture Department classified Coker 139 as "low to lacking in flavor and aroma, generally of light body and currently with poor acceptance in the trade," meaning among cigarette makers. The tobacco companies had at that time begun to promote filter-tip cigarettes, in part to widen their sales among women, and according to Lamm and others, filter-tips required a darker, heavier type of leaf, presumably one with more nicotine than that produced by Coker 139.
"I don't want to imply that the companies wanted more nicotine," Lamm told me the first time we talked. But when we met a second time, he said: "You brought up the idea of Coker 139, why it was banned. No, I better not say that. . . ." He paused, took a sip of iced tea, and shaking his head, he said: "Well, yes. It was the nicotine. It had low nicotine, low nicotine."
That was seconded by Gerald F. Peedin, a crop-science professor at North Carolina State University and an expert on tobacco production. "Coker 139 was good yielding, but it had a leaf imbalance," he said. "High levels of sugar, low levels of nicotine. The companies didn't want it."
The demise of Coker 139 came at a bad time for small tobacco farmers. Labor costs were rising rapidly, as the traditional pool of black pickers dried up, and few of the farmers could afford the heavy investment in machinery needed to compete with the big growers. For many, it was the straw that broke the camel's back. Half a century ago, the state had 300,000 tobacco farms. Now it has 58,000. Yet the profits for those who grow it have not diminished, and tobacco pumps $1 billion a year into the state economy.
Across Wayne, which ranks ninth in production among North Carolina's tobacco counties, there are only 500 tobacco growers, planting around 8,500 acres. Yet, gross sales of tobacco in the county's warehouses will most likely match the gross sales of all other field crops combined. Just two years ago, tobacco brought in $32.4 million, compared with $33.6 million for all the other crops.
"Look around," says Bob Pleasants, the county agricultural extension agent. "This town was built with tobacco money." Goldsboro, named one of the 10 best cities in America by Money magazine in 1993, is indeed stocked with Wal-Marts and other discount stores, industrial parks, shopping centers, strip malls, cineplexes, fast-food drive-ins, even Chinese and Mexican restaurants. Tobacco is not, of course, the sole source of its prosperity -- turkey and hog farms bring in big money, and Seymour Johnson Air Force Base supplies a steady flow of Federal dollars -- but tobacco is at the core of its growth.
So, naturally, Pleasants defends tobacco. "I don't think that the tobacco producers are selfish," he says. "Tobacco production is their means of livelihood. It's fed and clothed them, and educated their children. It's their sustenance."
When I leave his office, he waves and says, "Be kind."
THE STORY OF TOBACCO IS NOT ONE OF plantations and columned mansions, Southern gallantry and ladies and gentlemen with pedigrees and social airs. Tobacco Road is, after all, synonymous with redneck Southern poverty. On the maps of tobacco history, there's no Savannah or Charleston, and certainly no Mississippi Delta, no afternoons of mint juleps on the veranda or rum toddies in the gazebos.
"This area was not the huge plantation kind of place," laments Sandra Raiford McCullen, Randy's wife, who has a doctorate in education from North Carolina State University and works for the county school district. "It was small family farming. Being self-sufficient. My father was seen as quite poor people. And I think it's amazing that in my lifetime I've gone from stoop labor to have some kind of job that benefits people."
While the history of tobacco is replete with legendary names, big fortunes and dynasties -- the Dukes of Durham, the Reynoldses of Winston-Salem and the great universities that tobacco money endowed -- the routine of life on the farm was hard and bare. Tenants and sharecroppers and small-time landowners worked from sunup to sundown over the long growing season.
Randy's 71-year-old mother, Julia Dildy McCullen, grew up on a farm in adjoining Greene County. "All our family worked in the fields," she says. A tiny woman with short, tightly curled hair, she's sitting in a rocking chair in the spacious living room of the white farmhouse. "I pulled tobacco plants. I picked weeds off them. And I harvested tobacco for years and years."
She married R. E. McCullen in 1947, after he came back from the war. Several years later, when he got his five-acre tobacco allotment (along with 45 acres of farmland) after his father died, R. E. began to expand their land holdings. Now Julia sits in a comfortable house with modern conveniences, even a cordless telephone. "Tobacco paid the bills," she keeps telling me. "Tobacco gave us all this." She stirs from her rocker and checks the stove, where she has been cooking lunch since early morning. Her husband walks in, spry, hospitable, with a wind-lashed face, thinning silver hair and a slow gait. His voice has a deep timbre; his drawl is pronounced.
We're talking about the land he inherited from his father, the plot that was worth less than $4,000 back in the 40's. "Today the 50 acres is worth -- let me see," he says, rising to get a pen and a legal pad. He jots down numbers. "You won't believe this," he says, grinning. "We paid $3,900. That is how much it cost when my parents bought it. Now it's worth $150,000."
"I'm not but 47 years old," he says, kidding (he's 74), when I ask him what's going to happen to the land. "I feel young. I don't take no medicine. Never smoked. Never drank. Never ran around with wild women." He has never thought of leaving his land and has never lived outside a 10-mile radius of his birthplace.
Would he ever sell the farm?
"No. Never."
With that, as if on cue, Randy walks in. Flipping through a farm journal, he tells me that he grows Norfolk King 326, the most popular tobacco seed. It costs $70 an ounce, and each ounce yields about 10 acres. He brings out a thumb-size plastic tube of seeds, which are the color of dark Colombian coffee beans and the size of fine sand grains.
As we talk, his mother sets the table -- chuck roast with carrots and onions, creamed corn and lima beans, iced tea. We take our places and there's a sudden pause. Randy bows his head, clasps his hands over his plate and barely moving his lips, says grace.
R ANDY MCCULLEN IS THE END OF THE line. He has two children, Amanda, a 19-year-old freshman at Meredith College in Raleigh, who wants a career in health care, and Chandler, a 15-year-old who likes to go hunting and keeps in his bedroom three shotguns, including a $100 Chinese-made S.K.S. semi-automatic rifle, and a display of Confederate flags.
"Our daughter, Mandy, she does not want to farm," Randy says. "Our son, I don't know. We want to send him to college but he prefers to start his own business. I don't know what that would be. Now, my son will be 16 and he will be assuming a different role."
It's clear where his hopes lie.
For Mandy McCullen, who persuaded her mother to quit smoking, tobacco farming is the past. But she struggles between her own ambition -- to help the ill -- and her heritage. "The farm has been such a tradition," she says. "It's our food, school and other things." I ask her if she would grow tobacco herself. "No, I wouldn't do it," she says after a long pause. "But as a family, it's been such a major part of my life. We can't give it up. It's our livelihood."
Hours later, I'm talking with her mother, Sandy, at their home in Sleepy Creek, a rural subdivision of bilevel homes circling a lake. Dark-eyed, with short, springy chestnut hair, Sandy McCullen is the director of secondary education with the Wayne County School District, a long way from the tobacco farm in Seven Springs, in southeast Wayne County, where she grew up.
Sandy, who at 47 has earned two master's degrees as well as her doctorate in 17 years of commuting from Goldsboro to East Carolina University and North Carolina State, seems to have grown distant from the land. "Randy makes his decisions about the farm," she says. "That's his domain. I also have a life of my own, too, you know. I feel that probably our relationship differs a lot from other tobacco farmers."
But "I love my roots," she says, and saddens visibly when she remembers her childhood -- running around shirtless, drinking lukewarm Pepsi-Colas and eating Nabs, peanut-butter-filled orange crackers, while riding on the back of a pickup truck. "My father and mother worked a farm together when they first got married. They bought and paid for it. Inherited some. My brother runs the farm today, near Seven Springs. My mother lives there, where her parents lived. And right across the road is a tobacco store, and those are my cousins, and that store belonged to my grandfather."
Around here, she says, it's tobacco and pork. "You eat pork every day. And the churches have these barbecue dinners. That's part of the culture. Pig-pickings and church barbecues. . . .
"I don't know if you can depend on tobacco anymore, and I think that's what's making people so nervous about it. All my aunts, who are in their 70's, they're living off their tobacco allotments. I mean, that's part of their estate. That's part of their heritage. And they depend on that for their own existence. Not just my aunts, but anyone who had any kind of tobacco allotment."
Sandy's father died when he was 65. "He died of a heart attack. He died probably from smoking cigarettes. He smoked five packs a day on the average, no filters. So I guess we could say we saw it firsthand, you know."
She blames the cigarette companies. "Oh, yeah, I think they are the main culprits. But you asked me how I felt about living off tobacco money. It's kind of hard to think that's what you've done. I do have sentiments about that, but I tuck it away and don't think about it.
"I look at this wonderful way of life we had that I see is kind of dying now. . . . I told Randy two years ago that tobacco was dying, that the life was gone."
One evening, we meet for dinner at Applebee's, a chain restaurant in Goldsboro. Sandy comes in a gold silk blouse and flowing midcalf deep-green skirt, the picture of a successful Southern professional woman. Their son, Chandler, has been brought along, and has the sullen look of teen-age boys, socially awkward, timid. Chubby-faced and blond, with a close-cropped military haircut, he's wearing his Southern Wayne High School leather jacket and a black T-shirt with gold lettering that proclaims, "Tobacco is not a drug, stupid."
I ask him if he wants to be a farmer like his father.
He looks away from them and says, "Hell, no!"

GRAPHIC: Photos: For the McCullens - Mandy, Sandy, Randy, and Chandler - of Wayne County, N.C., tobacco farming is a tradition spanning three generations. (pgs. 40-41); Randy McCullen meets other businessmen over coffee and biscuits at a local coffee shop and the talk includes the latest bad news about tobacco. (pg. 42); Bucking tradition, neither his son, Chandler, nor his daughter plans to carry on the family tobacco business. (pg. 43); Randy McCullen unlocks a gate on his farm. "I tell you one thing - the deck is stacked against the tobacco farmer," he says. It may be the end of an era for the McCullen family as well as for North Carolina, where tobacco is a $1 billion industry. (Photograph by Charles Harbutt/Actuality, for The New York Times) (pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; FARMERS RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); TOBACCO FARMING (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (77%); SMOKING (76%); MOBILE HOMES (72%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (71%); 

PERSON: TORREGROSA, LUISITA LOPEZ; LOPEZ TORREGROSA, LUISITA RANDY MCCULLEN (73%); JOHNNIE ERASTUS MCCULLEN (63%); KEITH BEAVERS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



570 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 17; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Sunday August 25, 1996: GAMBLING;
Jake Viarrial, Casino Zealot

 BODY:
Know what? Better drive around back, or I'll never get through the door," says Jake Viarrial as he points at a large edifice he built: the $25 million Cities of Gold Casino, a faux-adobe box a few miles north of Santa Fe, N.M. His stealth entrance doesn't work. Inside, the jovial, hefty Viarrial is mobbed by chatty gamblers, who offer bilingual variations on "Give 'em hell!" 
 Viarrial, the Pojoaque Indian pueblo's governor, is easily the most flamboyant figure in a nationally watched controversy that is lurching toward a messy conclusion. New Mexico is home to 11 Indian casinos -- grossing about $230 million last year -- which were made possible through agreements and "compacts" emanating from both the United States Attorney and the Governor's office. The current imbroglio began in 1995, when anti-gambling forces challenged the legality of these arrangements in court and started winning. If the Indians lose again (the Federal Appeals Court in Denver now has the case) they may get shut down, at least temporarily, leaving them stranded with $130 million worth of loans.
Amid the fray, Viarrial has often played it like a high-desert Al Sharpton. He once fasted for 21 days to dramatize his cause. Staring at a shutdown threat earlier this year, he vowed to set up toll booths on a state highway that passes through pueblo land. Ultimately, though, bluster won't help, and Viarrial knows that if the worst happens, "we may have to find a new economic resource." Like? He pauses, recalling an earlier threat that jolted the upscale citizens of Santa Fe. "Well," he says, smiling, "I'm really, really serious about having a nuclear-waste dump here."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; POJOAQUE INDIANS GAMING (91%); CASINOS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (75%); GOVERNORS (75%); LAWYERS (70%); APPEALS COURTS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (62%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (50%); 

PERSON: VIARRIAL, JAKE AL SHARPTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



571 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
Cezanne Gives a Boost To Philadelphia Tourism

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
O.K., Atlanta got all the attention -- for two Olympic weeks. But for month after non-Olympic month, day in and day out, another city has been America's most surprising summer magnet for tourism: Philadelphia.
"Cezanne," the immensely popular exhibition of 170 works by the Impressionist master at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, helped make the summer of 1996 "the best in Philadelphia since the capital moved in 1800," said R. C. Staab, vice president of tourism and communications for the Philadelphia Convention and Visitors Bureau. The show, which began May 30 and runs until Sept. 1, was sold out in late July except for a few tickets available through hotel packages. 
 The show will have attracted an estimated 700,000 visitors by its closing date, breaking all attendance and sales records at the Philadelphia Museum. Mr. Staab said the economic impact on the city will be $60 million in revenues generated from hotels, restaurants, shops and local transportation. The projected total number of visitors for the year will be 5 to 10 percent higher than the 4.8 million who came to Philadelphia in 1995. Hotel occupancy, which was 70 percent last year, is projected at 75 percent for 1996 because of "Cezanne" and a spate of other conventions and events. Some hotels that have appealed to Cezanne-lovers with special packages are currently 95 percent full.
"We never dreamed it would be this successful," Mr. Staab said. "I didn't believe that the name Cezanne held the same kind of strong recognition as Monet or van Gogh."
Moreover, Philadelphia has been swarming with visitors in "what is usually our slow time," said Georges Perrier, the French-born owner and chef of Le Bec-Fin, one of the city's grand restaurants. " 'Cezanne' has greatly increased our business -- and our knowledge. I've seen it five times and I must see it again."
The exhibition has taught Philadelphia's tourism establishment to pull together more effectively in marketing cultural institutions, tourism officials said. The city's first major cooperative marketing program was launched two years ago for the traveling exhibition of works from the Barnes Foundation at the Philadelphia Museum in 1995.
Emboldened by the success of that venture, a new cooperative marketing program was created for "Cezanne," enlisting the participation of the Philadelphia Museum, Advanta (the credit-card issuer that is the show's corporate sponsor), the Convention and Visitors Bureau, and the Museum of American Art of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. All told, the Philadelphia Museum and the show's sponsors spent more than $750,000 to advertise the exhibition.
To date, the hotels have sold about 20,000 packages, Mr. Staab said. Desperate "Cezanne" wannasees can check the city's Internet site for hotel availability. The address is http://www.libertynet.org/phila-visitor/ceztix.html
The first "Cezanne" retrospective in 60 years, the exhibition was hardly your garden-variety attraction. The show benefited from the buildup from Paris to London, its previous stops, said Sandra Horrocks, vice president of marketing and public relations at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. "When it arrived, it got the kind of critical acclaim it deserved," she said. "And it helped that it was the only stop in the United States for this exhibition."
"Cezanne" has persuaded Philadelphians that, in the quest for tourism, cultural resources can compete with the city's celebrated historical treasures. "We certainly will continue to market Philadelphia as a cultural destination along with our traditional American heritage sites," Mr. Staab said.
What can the museum do for an encore? It's offering a troika of shows: The first, "The Peale Family: Creation of an American Legacy 1770-1870," showcases the paintings of Philadelphia's first family of portraitists as a chronicle of American democracy; it will run from Nov. 3 to Jan. 5, 1997. The second, "Encounters with Modern Art: Works from the Rothschild Family Collections," presents futurist, Cubist, constructivist and other works; it will be on view from March 2 to May 11, 1997.
And from March 30 through June 22, 1997, the third show, "Michelangelo and Rodin," will offer 50 sculptures and drawings showing the influence of the Renaissance master on one of the most popular sculptors of the modern age. The show was conceived by the Casa Buonarotti in Florence; once again, the Philadelphia Museum is its only American stop.
The final lesson of "Cezanne" is that "cultural tourism really works," said Ms. Horrocks. "People will travel to see these very special events. So it is absolutely worthwhile for cities to make an investment to make sure that these shows happen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cizanne exhibit at the Philadelphia Museum of Art: a big draw. (Philadelphia Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PHILADELPHIA MUSEUM OF ART

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA MUSEUM OF ART

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ART; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOURISM (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); TOUR PACKAGES (77%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN; CEZANNE, PAUL (1839-1906)

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



572 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 5; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1921 words

HEADLINE: Final Judgments

BYLINE: By Christopher Buckley; Christopher Buckley's new collection of essays, "Wry Martinis," will be published this winter.

 BODY:

Nixon Off the Record
By Monica Crowley.
231 pp. New York:
Random House. $23.
He's baaack! 
 For the last five years of his life, Richard Nixon sipped tonic water and spilled the beans to a young assistant he hired right out of college after she wrote him a flattering letter about his book "1999." Monica Crowley was a steel-trap amanuensis, taking down every word with apparently astonishing precision -- she implies that she didn't use a tape recorder, but then perhaps Nixon's post-White House staff avoided tape recorders the way Count Dracula's assistants might avoid crucifixes.
After Nixon died in 1994, she says, William Safire, a former Nixon scribe, gave Ms. Crowley the ethical go-ahead to publish, telling her, "Nixon knew that when he spoke to you, he was speaking to history." The result is her first and Nixon's final book, a portrait of the most compelling, infuriating and fascinating American political figure of our half of the 20th century. Here he is in all his five-o'clock-shadowed glory, spinning not in the grave but from it: seething over the incompetence of the Bush re-election campaign, scheming to ingratiate himself with the Clintons -- not a pretty picture -- handicapping the current election and agonizing over his place in history, all the while serving up scathing assessments of all the players.
Richard Nixon hasn't been this interesting since the Oval Office bugging system was taking the dictation. In life we knew him as Tricky Dick. Now, in death, he gives us Dishy Dick.
A lot of the players will be going around airily pretending they haven't had time to read the book, then locking the doors to the den to look themselves up fretfully in the index to find out what he really thought about them. For George Bush, James A. Baker 3d, David Gergen, Robert A. Mosbacher, Nicholas Brady, Richard Darman, Jack Kemp and Pat Buchanan, reading this book will not be a pleasant experience -- a bit like attending the reading of a will in which they are left not the house, estate and trust funds but the deceased's diabetic cat, with contemptuous instructions for its care. "Withering" is not quite strong enough a word to describe Mr. Nixon's feelings toward many of the above. And those are the Republicans.
President and Mrs. Clinton would do well to search elsewhere for diverting reading on their vacation, as would his Cabinet. "Well! Look at that Cabinet. Aren't they an awful-looking group? My God! Shalala and Reno? They are so far to the left that I don't know what they are. And Hillary! She's so steely. She even claps in a controlled way." Secretary of State Warren Christopher is hereby advised to assume the fetal position if anyone within a hundred-yard radius brings up the book.
Who comes off well? It's a short but surprising list: Bob Dole, Mario Cuomo, H. R. Haldeman, Al Gore, Dan Quayle and Elliot Richardson. There's a fun dinner party for you.
The aggrieved will be able to take some comfort from the book's rather massive Achilles' heel, assuming it is that. Either Ms. Crowley, who occasionally gets a bit breathless about all the mentoring -- Michael Kinsley's line kept coming to me: He threw her over the desk and mentored her until dawn -- didn't catch the glaring fallacy in her argument, or something even more interesting is going on here.
At the outset of Part 1, she writes: "Above all for Nixon, leadership demanded a person secure in his abilities and in himself and who was, therefore, willing and able to take those risks. Of the many criticisms leveled at him, the one he found most egregious was that he was insecure. Politics, by its very nature, attracts the supremely secure."
As they say in the Valley, Hello? There's enough in that there asseveration to keep every pundit, political scientist and psychologist in America arguing for a month. Her book is a prosecutor's brief for the antithesis, at least in Nixon's case. Almost every page contains DNA evidence, supplied by her mentor himself, that for all his undeniable guts, his ability, again and again, to take a kicking and go on ticking, Richard Nixon was the most transparently insecure human being ever to reach the White House.
"Why the hell isn't he showing some leadership?" he fumes about George Bush's lack of vision. "I'll tell you something. When the [expletive deleted] and his gang come to me for advice, I am not going to provide it unless they are willing to thank me publicly. Neither Reagan nor Bush did that after all these years of my advice, and frankly I have had it. They'll find me when they need me, but I may not be available." You can hear the stamping of slippered feet on the study floor.
Twenty pages later he's bristling about the Bush campaign -- "All tactics and no vision. Nothing." In his histrionic, tautological way, he tells her: "I reiterate to you once again: I will not give them any advice unless they ask and unless they are willing to thank me publicly. I'm tired of being taken for granted. They all come to me on the sly when they are in big trouble -- well, no more. No more going in the back door of the White House -- middle of the night -- under the cloak of darkness. . . ." Wonderful image, that: Nixon being bundled into the side entrance under a raincoat.
Desperate to be a player again, he submits to the humiliation of a visit from the Presidential aspirant Ross Perot, calculating that the specter of his becoming a Perot shadow adviser might prompt Mr. Bush or Mr. Clinton into bringing him in out of the cold. Mr. Perot makes the former President wait two hours, pleading New York City traffic. (To paraphrase Dana Carvey's Perot, "Isn't that just sad?") In one of the book's more amusing moments Nixon, convinced that his phones have been tapped, resolves to flush out the tappers with a prearranged call to Ms. Crowley, telling her that he's planning to come out publicly for Mr. Perot. First time as tragedy, second time as opera bouffe.
"I hope to God they don't ask me to speak at the [1992 Republican] convention," he says later. "I won't do it. It's a loser all around." He doth protest a bit too much here. Richard Nixon would have bicycled to Houston to speak at that convention in a New York minute, if asked. And too bad he wasn't. His take on Pat Buchanan's fateful speech at that convention: "He's so extreme; he's over there with the nuts. . . . Attacking the gays was wrong, wrong, wrong. Besides, they vote too."
Again and again he tells Ms. Crowley, in terms that would scorch paint off the walls, of his contempt for Bill Clinton. Then when Mr. Clinton wins, he sets out to cozy up to -- another less attractive phrase comes to mind -- the new President with such zeal that you find yourself mumbling, "Say it ain't so."
After Nixon had read her a copy of a letter to Mr. Clinton, she reports, "He said to me 'I know it goes a bit overboard, particularly on the character stuff, but the guy's got a big ego, and you've got to flatter the hell out of him if you are going to get anywhere.' " And there you have it in one excruciating sentence: Nixon so yearned to be a contender again that he was willing to bear any burden, pay any price, to get back in the ring. "I used the word 'character' not in the moral sense," he elaborates to a no doubt dumbstruck Ms. Crowley, "because he has no morals -- but in the strength sense. Adversity builds character. . . . I have to work with the guy, so I might as well start with this."
Mr. Clinton put him back in the (outer) loop with a few phone calls about foreign policy. Nixon tells Ms. Crowley that he told the President, "Foreign policy is just more interesting." No surprise there, but how delicious to find a few pages later all our suspicions confirmed: "Monica, history will not remember him [Mr. Clinton] for anything he does domestically. The economy will recover; it's all short-term and, let's face it, very boring."
For a time, Nixon was thrilled and energized by Mr. Clinton's attentions. "He invited me to the White House," he announces one day. "The sentence hung there in the air before he continued, 'In 12 years, neither Reagan nor Bush ever put me on the White House schedule or put a picture out.' " Just as it took Nixon to open China, so it took Mr. Clinton, whose own wife had served on the impeachment committee, to open the White House back up to Nixon. Amusingly, Nixon tried to keep Mr. Clinton from consulting with Henry Kissinger. But alas, the Rodney Dangerfield of Saddle River got no enduring respect from the Clintons. That realization came when they did not attend the funeral of Mrs. Nixon. It's a harrowing and poignant moment, Lear on the blasted heath, Monica Crowley in the role of Cordelia.
"Nixon, rocked with grief, exploded after the service. 'Vernon Jordan? The Clintons sent Vernon Jordan? He's a fine man, but come on. Hillary should have been there. That was inexcusable. He comes to me for advice . . . and he can't even send a Cabinet member to Mrs. Nixon's funeral?"
The disappointment and anger would turn out to be conclusive, yet when Mr. Clinton made his next State of the Union speech, promoting health care, he included a mention of Nixon's health care proposals. "Did you know," he says to Crowley, "that that was the first time a President ever mentioned me? Ford, Reagan and Bush never did."
In life, Nixon was famed as a 20-20 political handicapper. In death, it remains to be seen. Bob Dole "must really take over the party," he tells her. "He's the only one; no one else can do it." Later: "Dole is the only one who can lead. He is by far the smartest politician -- and Republican -- in the country." He advised his protege to wait until after 1994 and then "kick the hell out of Perot" (still waiting), to cultivate Colin Powell (done, to little avail), to avoid letting the religious right dictate the terms (yes and no), to be "conservative" on economic issues (done) but "compassionate" on welfare and health care (so-so), to "stay young" (he's trying) and -- the $64,000 question -- to "attack Clinton's policies and not him personally." In fairness, Nixon said this in 1993; now the character issue may really be Mr. Dole's only available red meat.
Mr. Dole, one of Nixon's most serious students, who eulogized him with the words, "The second half of the 20th century will be known as the age of Nixon," would surely have invited him to speak at the '96 Republican convention. What a pity he didn't live long enough for that final dispensation.
Whatever we thought of Nixon, he paid full fare for his sins. It's all here, the pain and humiliation of his 20-year exile from the arena. He made a fatal mistake not burning those tapes a quarter-century ago. It is inconceivable that he made a second fatal mistake letting it all hang out with Ms. Crowley. Mr. Safire was right: Nixon knew his soul-revealing musings would eventually see the light of day. "Nixon Off the Record" is a collaboration, not, as some suggest, a betrayal, and that makes the author's naive whoppers about her subject's confidence all the more charming, even endearing. Thank heavens Monica Crowley is a relative innocent. An older pro would have inserted 18-minute gaps and But that would be wrong's. Even so, it's doubtful Nixon expected her to perform such editorial services. He was many things, but naive he wasn't. This remarkable book is an act of catharsis, not hubris, Richard Nixon's final apologia. Tough as he was on everyone else, he was always toughest on himself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Review

TITLE: NIXON OFF THE RECORD (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (76%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: CROWLEY, MONICA; BUCKLEY, CHRISTOPHER; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94) RICHARD NIXON (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



573 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Firms Look for Lawyers Who Arrive With Clients

BYLINE: By BARBARA B. BUCHHOLZ 

 BODY:
IN 1993, eight years out of law school, Douglas Skalka began to enjoy the fruits of his hard work.
A recently minted partner in the Greenwich, Conn., office of Whitman & Ransom, Mr. Skalka was given an enviable option when his firm, which is based in New York, merged with another New York legal giant, Breed, Abbott & Morgan. He had to choose the New York or Connecticut office, and he chose Greenwich. 
 Two years later, though, the partners voted to dissolve the Greenwich office. "I went from having to make a choice to not being wanted by either office," Mr. Skalka said. To top it off, his wife, Susan, had recently stopped working as a marketing representative at I.B.M. to care for their infant twin daughters.
After polishing his resume, he began a job search, but one question kept popping up: How much business -- or, as lawyers put it, "portable billings" -- could he bring with him?
Mr. Skalka's reply: "Not much."
His predicament has become common in the last decade or so. Law firms once assigned the same salaries to partners at the same level, but they eliminated this lockstep compensation in the late 1970's, intending to spur new business, shed deadwood, respond to client pressures on fees and increase revenues.
But this new order widened the gap between partners who generated much business and those who drew little, and this in turn made firms less stable. Partners with significant business became the equivalent of free agents in sports. Switching firms, once rare, became commonplace, and departments and offices sometimes moved en masse.
"The legal marketplace became a frictionless plane with few bonds holding anybody, anywhere," said Joel F. Henning, a consultant at Hildebrandt Inc. in Somerville, N.J.
Mr. Skalka was not among those who could switch easily. Though he billed a healthy 1,900 to 2,000 hours a year and was responsible for several high-profile bankruptcy cases, he worked mostly for other partners or for clients that had a long relationship with the firm. Thus he received no credit for originating business and had little possibility of taking clients with him.
"Anybody my age and 10 years out probably was more involved in carrying someone else's bags and developing their legal rather than business-getting skills," Mr. Skalka, who is 36, said. "Most firms I interviewed weren't willing to take a chance with someone who had the potential to develop business. They wanted to see numbers."
After a four-month search, the New Haven firm of Neubert, Pepe & Monteith offered him a job. "Although a large firm might have viewed his contacts as insignificant, we didn't," said Greg Pepe of the three-year-old, three-partner firm. "They dovetailed nicely with our transactions and litigation practices. Doug estimated he might generate $350,000, but did $500,000."
As many partners change firms, client loyalty often shifts to individual lawyers. When Bruce Meckler left Pope & John Ltd. in Chicago to form Bates Meckler Bulger & Tilson in February 1994, he took along clients like Tri-City Brokerage Inc., a commercial wholesale insurer in San Francisco.
"Our relationship with Pope & John primarily was Bruce," said Dan Real, a Tri-City executive vice president. "We had confidence in him. We also had spent time educating him and his lawyers about our practices, which isn't easy to transfer."
Because of this kind of loyalty, firms have sought partners from other firms, or "lateral" partners, who could bring immediate business and keep their other lawyers busy, particularly as legal work slowed in the late 1980's with the recession, the real estate crash and companies taking work in-house. "Many firms considered lateral partners the white knights who would save them," said David Maister, a consultant in Boston.
Today, lawyers with significant billings are more desirable than ever. The New York firm of Morrison Cohen Singer & Weinstein eagerly hired Larry Rodman to obtain $750,000 to $1 million in securities and real estate work that he offered after practicing at Teitlebaum, Hiller, Rodman, Paden & Hibsher, also in New York.
The same climate has, with few exceptions, made switching tougher for partners without business. And the billings threshold that is needed to change firms is soaring. "The price of admission has gone up," said Tom Clay, a consultant at Altman, Weil & Pensa in Newtown Square, Pa.
While many firms and recruiters are reluctant to cite figures, $500,000 to $750,000 in portable billings for a midsize firm (50 to 100 lawyers) and $1 million to $1.5 million for a larger firm are in the ball park, said Laura Hagen, a recruiter at the Chicago office of Major, Hagen & Africa, a legal search firm.
The billings are linked to a lawyer's desired income. For example, if the lawyer's target income is $500,000 or more, the partner will have to have a couple of million dollars in billings, said Lynn Mestel, a New York recruiter.
Still, a single magic number will not provide an automatic open-sesame. Firms are putting newly hired lawyers under more intense scrutiny, after being burned by some firm-switchers' overly optimistic assessments and by the high cost to service certain clients.
"Many partners don't deliberately misrepresent what they have, but often it's based on prior years and they can't know what will follow," said Marty Fay Africa, a recruiter with Major, Hagen & Africa's San Francisco office.
Many firms are structuring new partners' earnings based on incentives akin to deals for sports stars. "We may set a lower base and if the person brings in the business, they get a bonus," said Lee Miller, managing partner of Chicago's Rudnick & Wolfe.
All this is causing ripples at law firms, prompting partners to guard their clients or share work only with associates.
"At my former firm, there were some jealous partners who didn't want you to phone their clients when you worked on a matter," said Mike Mueller, who switched to Much Shelist Freed Denenberg Ament Bell & Rubenstein in Chicago from the larger firm of Keck, Mahin & Cate. "There were also ones who, when you achieved a good result, they made the congratulatory call." At the associate level, getting business has become another factor in whether a person becomes a partner.
So what happens to law partners without clients? "They can stay where they are and hope they get work from colleagues, though their situation is precarious because of younger lawyers who bill at lower rates," Ms. Hagen said.
"Or, they may have to alter their goals," said John Challenger of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, an outplacement firm. "We can place people, but it may not be at a comparable job."
Some are lucky, as one securities partner, Mike Gamsky, was when he was hired by Much Shelist a year ago. Though he wasn't thinking of leaving his firm, Chapman & Cutler in Chicago, Mr. Gamsky listened when a headhunter called. "It was a rare chance to move without business because the firm had the work," he said.
Mr. Henning offers this caveat to managing partners: "He who lives by the sword dies by the sword. The partner who will come to your firm for an extra $25,000 will leave your firm for another $25,000 to $30,000."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Douglas Skalka landed a job with a small firm in New Haven after other firms with which he interviewed sought lawyers who could bring higher billings with them. (Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (50%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEUBERT PEPE & MONTEITH PC (50%); NEW YORK (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; HIRING AND PROMOTION LAWYERS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (69%); LITIGATION (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); 

PERSON: BUCHHOLZ, BARBARA B DOUGLAS SKALKA (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



574 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: The Frogs (and Spools) of Windham Bridge

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
MORE than 200 years ago Colonists ridiculed the people of Windham because they had been frightened by bullfrogs in the night. Now Windham -- and the frogs -- could have the last laugh.
The town has asked the State Department of Transportation to place four bronze frogs on a new bridge in the Willimantic section of town, to pay tribute to a local legend. The amphibians would tower over traffic from a height of more than 20 feet, from atop giant spools of thread. But that's another story. 
 "If it works out the way we think it will, the bridge will become something of a tourist attraction in its own right," said David E. Philips, a retired history professor turned professional storyteller, and chairman of the Windham Planning Commission.
Margaret P. Reich, executive director of the Windham Regional Planning Agency and one of the chief proponents of the project, said the community wants to avoid having what one critic called an "I-beam I-sore" type of bridge similar to the one constructed recently in nearby Norwich.
"We're not picking on that designer. He designed a functional bridge that filled a purpose, but it's ugly, and it's not pedestrian friendly, and it doesn't fit in the community," Ms. Reich said.
Years ago the state tried to give its bridges character, she noted. The Merritt Parkway, for instance, boasts a series of spans that were designed for specific settings.
"They're conversation pieces, they're art -- but they're also functional bridges," Ms. Reich said. "That's what we want here."
And she agreed it could become quite an attraction, as the state begins construction of a Heritage Corridor Park just downstream. People collect cows and pigs, she noted, "but frogs have a big following, too."
Although the town has not filed a formal request for the bridge adornments, it has discussed the matter informally with the department, and begun raising the $80,000 needed to commission the statues from the sculptor, Leo Jensen of Essex.
Arthur F. Butzgy, design engineer for the Transportation Department, said there was nothing in state regulations to prohibit that kind of decoration, and that the designer would incorporate bases for the statuary.
"We can't do the whole thing as part of our project," Mr. Butzgy said. "However, there's no reason the local community can't do it, and we would be happy to accommodate it."
The bridge project will go out to bid next year, and is expected to cost about $14 million. It will consist of four lanes, two in each direction, including two left-turn-only lanes, and will run from Jackson Street on one side of the Willimantic River, to South Street on the other.
Town leaders have been lobbying the state for a new bridge for many years, deeming the two bridges currently connecting the north and south ends of town inadequate.
The bridge at Jillson Hill, which runs through the middle of the old American Thread Company property, was built more than a century ago. It is just 22 feet wide, with an 11-foot, 6-inch underpass at the south end that frequently snags unsuspecting truckers. The Bridge Street bridge is even older, built in 1868. Both spans have to be closed in heavy rain because of fear that the water will rip them away, which means Route 32, one of the major north-south roads in the eastern part of the state, is impassable. William H. Grover, a partner in Centerbrook Architects in Essex, was called on to design the bridge. Residents were intrigued with his first proposal. It was largely Victorian in nature, reflecting the fact that Willimantic has one of the heaviest concentrations of intact Victorian architecture in the country. And he suggested giant spools mounted at each approach to the bridge, reflecting Willimantic's once being known as Thread City, and the American Thread Company's producing some of the finest thread in the world.
But Mr. Philips wanted to take it one step further, to frogs. His 1984 book, "Legendary Connecticut," documents almost 250 legends from around the state. No. 52 is the Windham Frog Fight.
On a June night in 1754 the residents of Windham Center were awakened by a tremendous ruckus. They rushed outside, some screaming, some running for their lives, others firing guns into the darkness. When morning came it was discovered that the noise was bullfrogs fighting over the last drops of water in a pond that had dried up in that rainless year.
"You have to put it in the context of the time," Mr. Philips said. "It was a very scary time. The French and Indian War was still on, and some people thought the French and Indians were around. And then there were Puritans in the area who were predicting the end of the world anyway, and when they heard this noise they were sure the end had arrived."
The townspeople were held up as the butt of jokes, but they refused to slink off in shame. The old Windham Bank soon issued currency with frogs on it. Residents wrote poems of the battle, produced an operetta -- "The Frogs of Windham" -- that has survived 100 years. Frogs became part of the official town seal, and the high school ring.
Mr. Grover said he agreed to the idea because he saw it was an important part of local history. "Progress cannot be measured simply by the number of lanes on a new bridge," Mr. Grover said. "People want it to 'fit' with a community."
But, he said, the state often does not have the option. "The D.O.T. gets jumped on by the community if they try to make a bridge too utilitarian, and by the media if they try to make it look nice," Mr. Grover said.
He got in touch with Mr. Jensen, a friend, who was also intrigued by the project. "I'm usually asked to do generals and politicians and the like, so I was really interested," Mr. Jensen said. "A big problem I had was, frogs are always seen from the top. A frog doesn't look like much from the bottom -- it looks like a beanbag."
He made a quarter-scale wooden model of his proposed design, with the frog perched lazily atop the spool of thread, one foot hanging down, the other knee bent and poked high into the air. The plan is for the frogs to be eight feet, nose to tail, sprawled on eight-foot spools, set on seven-foot piers.
"Just the body of the frog will be as big as a Volkswagen Beetle," Mr. Jensen said. "It's going to be a couple of tons of bronze on each spool."
The 14-inch-diameter eyes will be gilded, and reflect movement down on the street, so they look almost alive.
He has begun casting four-foot models at Cavalier Renaissance Foundry in Bridgeport for garden sculptures. The first one went to a home not in Windham, but distant Guilford.
"The interest in this has been amazing -- people from as far away as Newtown have called about it," Mr. Jensen said. "This is going to be something unique."
The frogs look pretty nonchalant, as though gazing into the distance for a fly, lacking the energy to actually go off in search of food.
"They're not real serious frogs," Mr. Grover said. "It's clear they're meant to be fun."
Residents are having a good time with the project as well. Ms. Reich said someone came back from Serbia with a travel guide that tells of a bridge with dragons on each end that are supposed to wag their tails when a virgin walks over it. "We'd like to create a similar urban legend, but with frogs -- and probably not involving virgins," she said.
But it is also a serious project, they say. "It's art and it's history rolled into one -- it's not 36 rocks lined up in a row. It's not forced," Ms. Reich said.
Laura Weir Clarke, executive director of the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation, applauded the effort to integrate local history into the bridge project.
"What this bridge in Willimantic does is show that for a very tiny percentage of the budget, a bridge can be constructed that will add to the community, rather than detract from it," Ms. Clarke said.
She said it's a false, near-term economy to cut corners on appearances. She cited the case of the bridge over Lake Whitney in Hamden near the trust's headquarters, a circa-1930 concrete structure that had weathered into something that looked like old rock, and fit the landscape perfectly.
"What they were replaced with is out of scale with the landscape, and ugly," Ms. Clarke said. "It certainly means the traffic flows more smoothly, but the loss of beauty in the landscape in astonishing."
"In a small, historic town, to create a modern highway bridge is an insult," Ms. Clarke said. "The fight to save $100,000 now will be completely meaningless even 10 years from now. What will be left is what people see as they drive over it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The site of the new bridge over the Willimantic and Leo Jensen's frog-on-a-spool concept that is to decorate the span. (pg. 1); Windham residents hope the town's proposed new bridge at Jillson Hill will be a tourist attraction. The rendering is by Centerbrook Architects of Essex. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WINDHAM CENTER (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WINDHAM (CONN); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; FROGS SCULPTURE (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (77%); HISTORY (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A DAVID E PHILIPS (65%); MARGARET P REICH (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



575 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2467 words

HEADLINE: What's the Catch?

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN 

 BODY:
The fishing life, for better or worse, is not what it used to be.
In his 33 years on the waters off New Jersey, Richie Isaksen has dragged a net outside the Ambrose Channel for fluke and trawled for whiting and porgy. Now, faced with restrictions on those species, he has become a lobsterman. 
 But this been the worst summer for lobster that Mr. Isaksen has ever seen. On recent mornings, he has steered his 48-foot boat home to the worn docks of the Belford Seafood Cooperative with loads of 22, 25 and 30 pounds.
"We haven't made no money in two-and-a-half months," Mr. Isaksen said. "A lot of nights you sit and think, if they don't come in, what am I going to do then?"
Five miles down Raritan Bay, out by the brand new James T. White clam depuration plant in Highlands, the scene was considerably more cheerful. The surf behind Doris and Ed's restaurant was thick with soft-shelled clams, and nearly as thick with Hartsgroves. Eight of them, spanning three generations, stood waist-deep in the water. All except 9-year-old Troy Jr. were jigging cross-shaped hoes up and down like pogo sticks in the sandy muck, then scooping out basket after basket of blue-gray steamers.
Troy Hartsgrove Sr. emptied his metal basket into a bushel bag and said: "That's 35 bucks right there. Ten minutes."
To get a really good idea of the ups and downs of fishing in New Jersey today, though, talk to John Vona. He stood on the deck of the Crystal Ann at the dock outside a Cape May packing house as 90,000 pounds of squid were pumped out of the hold of his boat. As he watched countless limp white bodies fly up the conveyor belt to workers who would sort the $12,000, one-day haul into 22-pound boxes, Mr. Vona seemed decidedly underwhelmed.
"I'd rather be fluking," he said, sounding a little bit like a bumper sticker.
New Jersey's 300-year-old commercial fishing industry has been utterly transformed in recent years. Traditional in-shore fisheries like the ones Mr. Isaksen and his fellow Belford fishermen grew up in -- fluke, weakfish, porgy -- are either so depleted or so heavily regulated, or both, that it has become nearly impossible to make a decent living in them. Now bigger boats, like Mr. Vona's, venture 60 or 80 or 100 miles out to sea and gather up enormous quantities of squid or ocean quahog -- a jumbo clam used exclusively by canners and other processors -- or hundreds of miles out for mackerel.
The result is this: In the last five years, notwithstanding over-fished stocks, government quotas, creeping coastal development and increasing political pressure from environmental groups and the recreational fishing industry, New Jersey's 1,800-plus commercial fishing boats have caught more seafood, more consistently, than at any time since the early 1960's. More than 177 million pounds of fish and shellfish landed here last year, enough to make the state with the puny 127-mile coastline the country's ninth biggest seafood producer.
The value of the catch has risen steadily, too. Measured in constant dollars, the catch for the last few years has brought more money at the dock -- $95.3 million dollars in 1995 -- than at any time since World War II. With processing, retail sales and other multiplying effects taken into account, commercial fishing is now estimated to be worth about $600 million a year to the state's economy.
But this picture of growth is misleading. According to a report prepared by Rutgers University for the state Department of Agriculture last year, almost all the increase in catch has been in lower-priced species, while catches of high-value fish have declined. Menhaden or bunker, a bait fish that by itself accounted for the majority of the fin fish that landed here last year, is worth about five cents a pound. Atlantic mackerel, which has replaced fluke (about $1.50 a pound) and whiting as the state's leading edible fish, brought in about 12 cents a pound last year.
In 1993, according to the National Marine Fisheries Service, 80 percent of the nation's ocean quahogs (37 cents a pound that year), two-thirds of its surf clams (45 cents), a third of its squid (30 cents a pound then, now down to 12), and a quarter of its Atlantic mackerel (8 cents) landed in New Jersey. The state has become a leader in volume fishing.
Of course, it's nice to be a leader in something. Employment in the fishing industry has been stable at about 2,700 jobs for at least five years, according to the Department of Agriculture. The depression and massive unemployment found in former New England cod capitals or defunct salmon ports in the Northwest is not seen here.
And New Jersey has made the shift to a bulk-based seafood economy without becoming dominated by corporate fleets.
"You sort of can't call a 100-foot dragger with chilling capacity mom and pop, but that's what it is," said Nils Stolpe, executive director of the New Jersey Seafood Harvesters Association, referring to boats like Mr. Vona's. "It's family owned, family operated. People have grown up from smaller boats to bigger boats."
Nevertheless, though the fisherman may still be master of his own vessel, he is hardly master of his fate these days.
"It used to be," Mr. Stolpe said, "that a guy could go out and fish the kind of boat he wanted to fish, and fish the way he wanted to fish, and come back in, and make a good solid living. Today, they have to work harder, more hours, in ways they'd rather not work, in fisheries they'd rather not be fishing in, and probably get a lot less return on their investment."
More than 100 species of marketable seafood thrive in the waters off New Jersey, from scallops and sea bass to black drum, black whiting, cunner, cusk, John Dory, northern puffer, ocean pout, pigfish, porbeagle shark, smooth and spiny dogfish, spot and triggerfish.
But some fish are more popular than others, and fishermen -- whether foreign or domestic, commercial or recreational -- have over-harvested them. Since the late 1970's, the Federal and state governments, advised by regional management councils, have imposed strict limits on when, where, how much and what size fish may be caught, as well as on who may catch them and what gear they may use.
Some of these management plans have not worked, and others are still in their infancy. According to the Rutgers report to the state, of 32 main Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic commercial species, 24 are either over-fished or at their limit.
The eight species classified as "underexploited" -- skate, dogfish, squid and mackerel, among others -- do not fetch high prices (that is why they are underexploited). "Nevertheless," the report states, "it is likely that these will serve as the only available avenue for the growth/stability of state and regional fisheries for the rest of this century."
State agricultural officials are seeking new markets for these species at home and abroad. Linda O'Dierno, the state coordinator of fish and seafood development, was host to a delegation of fish buyers from China last year and led a trade mission there the year before.
The effort is paying off. Japan is New Jersey's biggest foreign customer, but local fishermen also send mackerel to Jamaica, skate wings to France, dogfish bellies to Germany, monkfish to Korea, squid to Spain and Italy and scallops to China. Much British fish and chips is made with New Jersey dogfish backs.
Persuading American consumers to take a chance on an unfamiliar fish is more difficult. "People are so into those same species -- flounder, fluke, swordfish," Ms. O'Dierno said. "It's a tough sell to get people to try different products." She recommends skate wings -- "the meat comes right off the bone and has a flavor like scallops" -- and red hake.
At Belford, the closest New Jersey port to Manhattan, some fishermen are doing more with less by selling their fish live. As the 57-foot steel dragger Nicole steamed into port on a recent afternoon, a Chinese immigrant who would not give his name was waiting at the dock beside a truck bearing the logo "Yuwah Seafood Corp., 29A Ludlow Street."
On board, the Nicole's mate, Robert Smith, reached into a tank full of water and filled several orange baskets with flapping, thrashing tautog, a big-headed, thick-lipped, snake-skinned fish well known to recreational anglers and often called blackfish.
As Mr. Smith handed the baskets up to the dock, the captain, Bern "Bobo" Yahara, took one handle and the man from Yuwah Seafood took the other, and together they walked back to the co-op's holding tanks, laughing and pausing every few steps to retrieve errant fish.
After inspection, the tautog were loaded into the truck, destined to spend the brief remainders of their lives swimming in aquariums in the windows of restaurants in Chinatown. Mr. Yahara would not say how much the man had paid but allowed that live tautog were worth a "few dollars a pound" more than dead ones, which sell for about $2.
A much more common sight, however, especially in bigger ports, is the fisherman's version of containerized shipping.
At Point Pleasant Packing in Point Pleasant Beach, the Debbie and Jeanette, a 110-foot clam dredger, arrives at the dock just before dawn from 70 miles offshore. A crane swings down into the hold and pulls up steel cages the size of household refrigerators, filled to bursting with quahogs. Each cage holds 32 bushels of clams, or about two tons. In a little more than an hour, 48 cages of clams are hauled out and raised by forklift onto tractor trailers bound for the Gorton's of Gloucester processing plant in Millville. By afternoon, the clams will have traded their shells for aluminum cans.
The owner of the Debbie and Jeanette sits in an office two hours south in Cape May, the largest of the state's six major fishing ports and the third highest-volume fishing port on the East Coast. Daniel Cohen, president of Atlantic Capes Fisheries, is one of the few people in the New Jersey fishing industry who controls more than a couple of boats. The company's nine vessels catch surf clams, quahogs, scallops, monkfish, squid, mackerel and butterfish.
Mr. Cohen, head of the Cape May Seafood Association, is also one of the few people in the industry who has anything nice to say about fishing quotas.
"Clams have come back," he said. "They went to a quota management system. and because of that, we've seen the resource rebound, the quotas increased. The government imposed major restrictions on fluke in 1991 and the resource has come back phenomenally. When we fish for them, we're catching so much so quickly."
But most fishermen are frustrated that they cannot catch the fish that are out there.
"This has been a really good year for weakfish, fluke, and bluefish and striped bass," said Mr. Stolpe of the state seafood association. "But striped bass are purely a recreational fish in New Jersey now, and the commercial fishermen in New Jersey are limited to 500 pounds of fluke on a trip."
In Belford, where fishermen have always relied on a mix of species finding their way into the nets, Richie Isaksen said the limits have been especially difficult to work around.
"When you're fishing a mixed trawl fishery," he said, "you catch whiting, squid, porgies, flounders, all in one net, and that's what makes your day. You get two or three boxes of flounders, they took them away. You catch some squid, and they took them away because the mesh size has to be bigger. So you got to deal with what you got left. But that two or three boxes of flounders or four or five boxes of squid, that was your day's work there."
When asked if they would want their young sons to follow them out to sea, Mr. Yahara and Mr. Smith of the Nicole differed only in their degree of pessimism.
"I wouldn't even let my kid down on the dock," Mr. Smith said. "I'd buy a boat tomorrow if I thought the industry was going to hold up, but it's a dying business."
Mr. Yahara said: "It's going to be up to him. I'll wait till he gets older and see if he likes working for nothing. If he does, I'll bring him on board."
Down behind the restaurant where the Hartsgrove clan was soft-clamming, though, Troy Hartsgrove Jr. was thrilled to be tagging along with the grownups, and they seemed happy to have him there, as long as he didn't wander into their clam trenches.
Monmouth County's in-shore fisheries for hard and soft clams (the soft shells are slightly crumbly, like limestone) have been revitalized in the past two years by the opening of clam purification plants in Highlands and Sea Bright that can process 360 bushels a day. (Hard clams, which are often eaten raw, and soft clams, which are often steamed, are separate from the industries in surf clams and ocean quahogs and command up to six times the price of those processing clams.)
Before the depuration plants were built, clammers had to take their catch about 50 miles down the coast to Barnegat Bay and bathe the clams in cleaner waters for 30 days to rinse out traces of coliform bacteria that are sometimes found near Sandy Hook.
Even better, improved sewage treatment in Monmouth County has elminated some of the need for purifying the clams: last week, the state ruled that clams in part of the Navesink River can be harvested right out of the water from November to April.
Reuben Hartsgrove Sr., 65, patriarch of the clan, a leather-faced man with forearms like Popeye's and a Marlboro permanently dangling from his lips, noted with deep satisfaction that this was the first time this particular clam bed had been dug in more than a decade.
"We had our eyes on these clams for two years!" he said.
As he scooped up another basket, he pronounced the future bright.
"There's plenty of seed out there," he said. "If they live, we'll do all right."
Most of Mr. Hartsgrove's colleagues in the fishing industry, though, are facing a difficult future. A new package of gear restrictions and size limits is due to be adopted by the end of the year, on crabbing in the Delaware Bay, on sea bass and porgy and tautog. The party and charter boat industry, which has seen its business fall by more than half since the early 1980's, has formed an aggressive new lobbying group, the Recreational Fishing Alliance, that turned out 2,800 anglers last year to block the reopening of commercial catches on striped bass.
None of which is enough to keep Joe Branin on dry land. Mr. Branin, a longtime Belford fluker, took over as manager of the Belford co-op's retail store last month and has spent most of his time since then trying to put the troubled store back on its feet. The other evening, though, as he packed the fish up in boxes and put them away, he had a thought.
"Think I'll go fishing Sunday night," he said. "They're starting to catch a few fish."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The catch of the day is unloaded at Belford Seafood Cooperative. The bigger a fisherman's boat, the brighter his future. (pg. 1); A carpet of bunker fish on the Little Ike; next stop: the processing plant. Below, Bern "Bobo" Yahara works on the rigging of the Nicole. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times; Julio A. Ibarra Jr. for The New York Times) (pg. 7)
 
Chart: "Calamari, and More" list fish species that brought in the most money last year. (Source: National Marine Fisheries Service) (pg. 7)
 
Graph: "Going Fishing" shows the top five categories of catch for 1908, 1961, and 1995. (Source: Fisheries of the United States, 1908; New Jersey Almanac 1964-65; National Marine Fisheries Service) (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: BERN, SWITZERLAND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); BERN, SWITZERLAND (59%); 

SUBJECT: FISHING, COMMERCIAL FISHES (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (78%); FINFISH FISHING (78%); SHELLFISH FISHING (78%); SEAFOOD (78%); FISHERIES (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY JAMES T WHITE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



576 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 5; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2800 words

HEADLINE: Fitting the Mortgage to the Need

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
WHEN she first arrived from the Soviet Union seven years ago, Natalya Novikova cleaned other people's homes. Now she is president of a travel agency and owns her own $244,000 home in Brooklyn -- purchased with a mortgage that offers flexibility for even higher steps on America's ladder to success.
It was Mrs. Novikova who supported the family during those first years in the United States while her husband, Vlagimir, burrowed into his studies for re-certification as a medical doctor in their adopted country. The family came, Mrs. Novikova said, with traces of a newcomer's syntactical license, "because it is very difficult to live, Jewish people, in Russia." 
 "When I first come, I clean homes each day," Mrs. Novikova said. Then, for several years, she worked in a travel agency, learning the ropes. "Two years ago," she said, "I start my own business, Nataly's Travel, on Avenue U in Sheepshead Bay."
And now, with Dr. Novikova newly licensed and working two jobs (in a hospital and another doctor's office), the Novikovas are proud owners of a semi-attached, three-bedroom house on East 77th Street in the Bergen Beach section of Brooklyn.
They bought their house with a type of adjustable mortgage that holds the interest rate steady for the first five years, and then allows it to fluctuate. "Adjustable is good for us," Mrs. Novikova said of the deal she made with GFI Mortgage Bankers, "because I think we are going to move before five years. I am not going to be in my business my whole life. My husband will open a medical plaza, maybe on Long Island, and I will be the boss, like the manager."
Of their success and aspirations in a new land, Mrs. Novikova said, "It's just the American expression, meaning the grass is growing very fast on the other side."
The grass appears to be growing throughout the nation. The Novikovas, along with thousands of other first-time buyers and fence-straddlers who had been holding off on moving up to a better or larger house, are leaping into the market in growing numbers. And they are doing so by carefully calculating how long they are likely to stay in the house, and then selecting a mortgage suited to the calculation.
While the stable, standard 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage remains the dominant home-financing tool, more buyers than ever are choosing newer varieties of adjustable-rate mortgages that mesh a family's future with the promise of fixed-rate certainty for a set number of years, only then applying fluctuating rates. The adjustable loan gives them a lower interest rate initially, but is open to adjustment at specific intervals during the term of the loan.
For example, in the current market a borrower might pay about 8 percent in interest on a fixed-rate loan, but only about 7.5 percent for the first five years on a loan that adjusts every year thereafter.
On a $225,000 purchase with a $45,000, or 20 percent, down payment and a loan of $180,000, the monthly payment for a fixed-rate loan would be $1,321, But the rate for a loan with a fixed rate for only five years, adjusting each year thereafter, would be only $1,259, or $62 a month less. Because such a loan has both adjustable and fixed-rate features, it is sometimes called a hybrid adjustable.
Mortgage lenders point out that for younger buyers especially the difference of half a percentage point can be significant, making it possible for many to qualify for a mortgage and therefore buy a house that they might not otherwise be able to afford. "Many people's earnings are such that they need the lower payments," said William T. Schunk, president of National Standard Mortgage Corporation, a mortgage lender based in Tarrytown, N.Y.
THE downside is that once adjustments begin, they can be as large as 2 percentage points in a single year. The loans generally have an annual cap of 2 percentage points, and a total rate cap of 6 points over the initial rate. Adjustments can be of course in a downward direction at a time of falling interest rates. The term of the loan is normally 30 years.
"An older couple or people on a fixed income may not want to chance an adjustable-rate loan," said Thomas J. Riccobono, regional vice president of Intercounty Mortgage Inc., based in Westbury, L.I.
Mr. Riccobono also said that the typical first-time home buyer in the metropolitan area is making only a 5 to 10 percent down payment in their purchases, rather than the traditional 20 percent. "A minimum down payment is what most people want," he said.
Even some people who are refinancing their homes are choosing from the varied menu of adjustable mortgages. Among these are Marilyn and Richard Marcus. The Marcuses, who have lived on a tree-lined road in Scarsdale, N.Y., for eight years, recently refinanced with a mortgage that guarantees 10 years at a set rate before the adjustments start.
"Our kids are 7 and 15, and our long-range plan is to remain in Scarsdale, certainly through their education," Mrs. Marcus said. "So that's maybe 10 more years in the house."
The Novikovas and the Marcuses are participants in a gradually improving real estate market. Housing sales and starts were up in the first half of 1996, spurred, according to several market analysts, by relatively stable and still-manageable mortgage rates, a dose of consumer confidence and the leavening effect of those hybrid varieties of adjustable-rate mortgages.
"The residential market at this time is not really being driven by interest rate issues, because the rates are, in general, manageable," said Henry Wollman, director of the Newman Real Estate Institute at Baruch College. "So, as opposed to where we were during parts of the 80's when interest rates could be about 12 or 13 percent and still be considered favorable, in the current market, where rates are generally around 8 percent, the rate is not as formidable a factor in making a purchasing decision."
During the second quarter of this year, according to the Federal Housing Finance Board, the national average rate for a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage was 8.17 percent, an increase from 7.88 percent a year earlier and from 7.28 in January. The national average for all types of loans at the end of June was 7.77 percent, increasing from 7.61 percent in June 1995, after a drop to 7.17 percent in January.
(This and other surveys do not take into account whether the lenders are charging "points," or additional fees, at the closing. One point is one percent of the loan amount. If these fees are figured in, loan costs may actually be higher than the nominal interest rate makes them appear.)
While the Federal Housing Finance Board's numbers are for loans that were closed during the second quarter, HSH Associates, a mortgage research company in Butler, N.J., surveys current rates offered by 2,500 lenders throughout the country. The HSH survey shows that the national average offering rate for a 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage was 8.16 percent for the week that ended Aug. 16, down a bit from 8.2 percent a year earlier.
And in the metropolitan region, the HSH survey shows that, as of Aug. 16, the average rate being offered for a 30-year fixed mortgage was also 8.16 percent, up slightly from 8.13 the year before. HSH does not provide numbers that include all types of mortgages.
The relatively stable rates, said Walter Molony, a spokesman for the National Association of Realtors, are a key reason for a surge in home sales during the second quarter. And while sales are starting to ease off a bit, the association still expects this year to be the third best year for sales since it began keeping records in 1980. The projection for total sales, condominiums and co-ops included, is about 4.36 million for the year, which would be 3.2 percent above the total for 1995, Mr. Molony said.
"What we've had is kind of a fence-jumping effect," he said, "with people deciding to get into the market before rates move higher. And even though rates are up, they are still affordable in historic terms."
Much of the movement in the housing market, said James W. Hughes, dean of the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, is coming from maturing baby boomers wanting to settle in for the long term. "So, if they find a house, they're going to make the move and they are not going to worry about a half-point on percentage rates," Dr. Hughes said.
The trend is mirrored, said Stanley Duobinis, director of forecasting for the National Association of Home Builders, by an orthodoxy-defying jump in housing starts.
"There is a connection, certainly, between the level of interest rates and the level of housing starts," Mr. Duobinis said. "The rule of thumb we use is that, if other things are unchanged, a 1 percent increase in interest rates will decrease housing starts across the country by 50,000."
Yet, even though interest rates rose by about 1 percentage point since the start of this year (while trailing off a bit in recent weeks), housing starts have thumbed a nose at the rule.
Single-family housing starts over the nation through May of this year, as measured by building permits granted, are up 18 percent over last year, with 453,800 starts this year compared with 384,400 last year, Mr. Duobinis said. The reasons are a stronger economy, rising consumer confidence and the availability of various types of mortgages suitable for a range of buyers, he said.
NOWADAYS, within the categories of standard residential mortgages -- fixed-rate, adjustable and hybrids -- the borrower finds certain standard variations. Fixed-rate loans generally run for 30-year or 15-year terms. The shorter the term, the higher the monthly payments. (As in all home mortgages, interest payments are tax deductible, although there have been periodic calls to restrict this benefit.)
Standard adjustable-rate mortgages offer a lower interest rate during the first year, as a kind of come-on, and rates that vary according to a set schedule in each of the remaining years of the term. The most common adjustable-rate mortgage by far is referred to as a 1/1 ARM, signifying that switch from the low, initial rate in the first year to a new rate each subsequent year. Nowadays the initial rate offered is about 6 percent, with no points.
In the hybrid variety, the initial rate is fixed for a set number of years. The most common are those that run for three, five, seven or ten years at a fixed rate, and then adjust each year during the remaining years of the 30-year term.
The Novikovas, for example, took a "5/1 hybrid ARM" on their $424,000 house, making a $25,000 down payment and paying off the principal, or the remaining amount owed, at 7.25 percent for the first five years. "It's good for me to take adjustable mortgage because my business is going to grow up and now I cannot afford a regular mortgage because my husband just start working as a doctor," Mrs. Novikova said.
For adjustable mortgages, when the annual adjustments begin to kick in, rates are usually based on the yield from a one-year Treasury note, with a profit margin tacked on. "That yield plus margin equals your new interest," said Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH Associates.
Each lender sets the margin, but the most common is 2.75 percentage points. "So, if you started at 5 percent for the first year and the Treasury yield is at 6 percent, the lender can add 2.75 percentage points to arrive at the new interest -- 8.75 percent," Mr. Gumbinger said.
Buying a house is, for most people, the major financial decision of a lifetime. The experience can be fraught with anxiety, uncertainty and unexpected delays.
"The document assembly process is extraordinary," said one recent buyer, who did not want to be identified. "You have to be prepared to explain every transaction in any bank account, any financial account, your credit history -- if you paid on time, any defaults. It's like having someone look into your soul to see if you're credit worthy."
Joseph Bryant, executive vice president and chief mortgage officer for the Long Island Savings Bank, remarked that in some respects the mortgage industry is "still in the 19th century because we do things by the pound -- the loan application has to be two pounds before we will approve it."
"How is it," Mr. Bryant wondered, "that someone can go into a car dealership and buy or lease, let's say, a new Mercedes, title the car, insure the car, finance the car and drive it out within three hours, when a home purchase of a similar price takes 45 days to do the same thing? It doesn't make sense, and it drives everyone -- including employees of the mortgage company -- nuts."
And for those who are numerophobic, all those charts and tables, interest rates and points, can seem like a jumbled spool of data, when it is actually more like a series of push-pull strands. Among the trade-offs, for example, are these:
The more stability the buyer wants in the interest rate, the higher the rate is likely to be. In pricing -- meaning the combination of rates and points to be paid -- the fewer points the buyer can afford to pay initially, the higher the interest rate will be. Points are, effectively, a prepayment of interest, and therefore lower the interest rate.
Another trade-off is that the higher the down payment, the lower the monthly payment. But a countering trade-off is that one may wish to make a lower down payment and use some of the money saved for furnishings, or, perhaps, an emergency reserve.
Some hope for more effectively weighing all those trade-offs, as well as cutting through the often harrowing process of proving you are qualified for the loan, may be in the offing. Mr. Bryant of Long Island Savings Bank said that computer technology was coming to the market that allows a quick loan decision.
"We've had these programs for about six months," Mr. Bryant said, "and the best we have done to date, from time of loan application to approval, has been three days."
But computers or not, it is after juggling all those factors -- and, particularly, of course, the mesh between current interest rates and their effect on long-term family plans -- that buyers turn toward adjustable-rate mortgages.
ACCORDING to the Federal Housing Finance Board, 81 percent of all mortgages closed in the last quarter of 1993 were fixed-rate, while 19 percent were one variety of adjustable or another. At the end of the second quarter of this year, however, 72.6 percent were fixed-rate and the adjustable share had increased to 27.4 percent.
Joseph McKenzie, director of financial research for the housing finance board, said that the ARM share of the market has always been volatile. "When interest rates start rising, more and more consumers elect ARMs," Mr. McKenzie said.
And certain varieties of ARMs have particularly increased in popularity in recent years, he said. The three-year hybrid has gone from 1 percent of the ARMs market in 1993 to 8 percent in the second quarter of this year; the five-year hybrid has gone from 2.1 percent in 1993 to 18.6 percent in the last quarter.
"Definitely, the trend is for people to think precisely about how long they will keep their mortgage," said Margaret Scott, president of Mortgage Advisory Services, a Manhattan firm. "I would say that probably 75 percent of my mortgages are hybrids now, and three years ago it was probably 35 percent."
"Statistically, people stay in their home six or seven years," Ms. Scott said. "And when they buy, it's like opening a door: they think about going in a given direction, usually toward a 30-year fixed. But, if pressed, they will tell you it's going to be five years or seven years, and they can buy one of these hybrids."
The Marcuses went through that mental process. Mrs. Marcus, a lawyer, said she and her husband bought their five-bedroom, 4,500-square-foot Scarsdale home in 1988. She would not say how much they paid.
"We refinanced six months ago," Mrs. Marcus said. "We had taken out a mortgage, and also an equity line, which we used for business purposes. And the rate of interest and the equity line were higher than what the market was offering for a new mortgage.
"So what we did was wrap what was left on the mortgage and the equity line into a new mortgage, and we have been able to save a great deal of money each month."
With the children expected to be either in college or out on their own in 10 years, the Marcuses decided on a 10-year hybrid adjustable loan from the Poughkeepsie Savings Bank. "The rate was much better than the 30-year fixed," Mrs. Marcus said. "I don't remember what the 30-year fixed was at the time, but the 10/1 was just under 7 percent."
And what will they do in 10 years?
"Probably, we would be ready to move on," Mrs. Marcus said. "But who knows?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Natalya and Vlagamir Novikova in their house in Bergen Beach, Brooklyn. Their loan is adjustable after five years. Marilyn Marcus, with her sons Spencer, 7, and Peter, 15, at their Scarsdale, N.Y., house, which was refinanced with an adjustable loan that has a fixed rate for 10 years. (Photographs by Jim Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Keith Gumbinger, vice president of HSH Associates, which surveys rates offered by 2,500 lenders. (Julio A. Ibarra for The New York Times) (pg. 8)
 
Graph: "The Types of Mortgages That Buyers Prefer" gives a breakdown of the various types of mortgages that buyers choose. (Federal Housing Finance Board/The New York Times) (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GFI MORTGAGE BANKERS INC (54%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%); FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (54%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS NATALYA NOVIKOVA (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



577 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
Low Down Payments Luring Renters to Ownership

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN 

 BODY:
THE scarcity and high cost of rentals in both Nassau and Suffolk, along with mortgage programs that allow buyers to purchase a house with a low cash outlay, is turning many renters into home buyers.
Shaun and Kathline Malone, for example, expect to move into their three-bedroom town house in the Meadows at Huntington Village development by the end of October. They are currently renting a one-bedroom apartment nearby for $850 a month, but they want something larger. Married in January, they are first-time buyers. 
 Their mortgage payments on the $196,000 house, on which they are getting 90 percent financing, will be $1,800 monthly, including taxes, said Mr. Malone, a lawyer who works in Manhattan. A three-bedroom apartment outside the complex would cost between $1,500 and $2,000, he noted, "so we are much better off buying something."
The Meadows, which opened for sales in July and now has all but three of 16 town houses sold, is being developed by Meadowood Properties of Islandia, which perceived a niche in the Huntington market for attached housing that sells below $200,000 and therefore can compete with nearby rentals.
"People want to stop the bloodbath of paying high rent and invest in their own homes," said James L. Neisloss, who is developing the Meadows with a partner, Donald S. Partrick.
To keep common charges as low as possible (each unit pays $110 monthly for those charges, plus $5,400 a year in taxes), the partners decided not to build any recreational facilities.
Prices for the town houses, which range in size from 1,740 square feet to 1,900 square feet, plus basement and a one-car garage, range from $189,990 to $196,990.
The Malones elected to make a 10 percent, $19,000 down payment, but down payments as low as 3 percent are allowed by the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), which buys mortgages on the secondary market from lenders. Fannie Mae has a $207,000 mortgage limit on a single-family house.
Government-insured Federal Housing Administration loans are also available with only 3 percent down. Their advantage is that credit qualifications are somewhat less stringent than those of Fannie Mae loans. However, the F.H.A. loan limit in Nassau and Suffolk Counties for a one-family house is $155,250.
Under a State of York Mortgage Agency (Sonyma) loan program available for new houses called the Construction Incentive Program, purchasers can buy a house with no down payment. The only cash outlay is the buyer's closing costs. However, funding this year will result in only about 1,000 mortgages, said a Sonyma spokeswoman.
The initiative received a $100 million appropriation in March. It is designed to stimulate the construction of housing affordable to first-time low- and moderate-income buyers. The allocation has already resulted in statewide sales or contracts on 850 houses. The program, which was first introduced in 1994, is financed through the sale of tax-exempt mortgage revenue bonds.
Interest rates currently are 5.5 percent for the first four years of a 30-year loan, and they step up to 7.5 percent for the remaining life of the mortgage.
In Nassau and Suffolk, the income limit for households of one or two persons is $63,000; households of three or more can earn up to $72,560. House prices in both Nassau and Suffolk cannot exceed $156,600. Guidelines are more liberal in special areas targeted for economic development programs; existing two-family houses in those areas can also be purchased.
IN all cases where down payments are under 20 percent, buyers pay a monthly mortgage insurance premium that ranges from 0.75 to 1 percent of the loan amount.
"Some people are aware of these programs, but many people are not," said Mark W. McAfee, group vice president of the residential mortgage division of EAB, a Uniondale bank.
Like many lenders on Long Island, EAB holds regular free home-buying seminars to educate would-be buyers. Residential First, the mortgage arm of the Roslyn Savings Bank, is also active in consumer-education programs. In addition, counseling is available through the Long Island Housing Partnership, based in Hauppauge.
Structural Technology, a developer with offices in Shirley, began using the Sonyma program in March at its 163-unit Village Green at Baiting Hollow development, where detached houses on 0.75-acre lots sell in the $134,900 to $179,900 price range.
It also has projects in Manorville and Center Moriches that qualify for the state loan program, said Chris Calderone, the sales director.
For a 1,250-square-foot, three-bedroom ranch with a basement and a one-car garage selling for $134,900 in the Baiting Hollow project, a buyer would need about $4,000 to close, he said. The $134,900 mortgage at 5.5 percent interest would cost $767 monthly for the first four years and $943 monthly thereafter. Taxes and private mortgage insurance add about $300 a month.
Joseph and Barbara Tuccio just moved into their three-bedroom contemporary at the development from a rental in Rocky Point. They paid $151,000 for the house. Although they took out a Sonyma mortgage, they elected to pay 3 percent down, which with closing costs brought their cash requirement to about $9,500, Mr. Tuccio said.
Their monthly costs including taxes will be $1,300. But in Rocky Point they would have had to pay at least $850 just for a two-bedroom apartment, said Mr. Tuccio, who is a mechanical engineer.
In some cases, developers are further assisting buyers by paying some of their closing costs.
At the 487-unit Park Row town-house complex in Central Islip, a homeowners' association where prices range from $143,990 to $179,990, the buyer of the $143,990 unit can move in with around $7,000 in cash, which would include a 3 percent down payment, said Meri Hartig, the sales manager.
The developer, the F.N. Development Company of Irvine, Calif., pays 3 percent of the purchase price toward closing costs -- in the case of the $143,990 unit, about $7,000. With only $2,700 needed for closing and $4,320 for the down payment, the buyer's cash outlay comes to $7,020, Ms. Hartig said.
Monthly costs are $1,400 based on a real estate tax abatement program currently in effect. As of Wednesday, seven houses were still available under the program.
AT the Silver Ponds town-house development in Manorville, 241 units have been built and sold and 125 are planned or under construction. The Silver Ponds Townhouse Corporation of Manorville is paying about $4,000 worth of closing costs for buyers purchasing houses in the current 24-unit phase under construction. Sixteen houses remain to be sold.
Not covered are such items as points, the homeowner's cost of title insurance and the fee charged by the buyer's lawyer.
With a 3 percent down payment, buyers need about $5,000 cash to purchase a $119,990 two-bedroom, 1,280-square-foot town house with a one-car garage, said Stephen R. Cody, director of operations for the developer. Payments of $1,300 a month, which include $3,090 in annual taxes, allow families with a $45,000 annual income to qualify, he said.
The F.H.A. allows sellers to finance some of the closing costs, as does Fannie Mae. The F.H.A. also allows some of the buyer's closing costs and an upfront mortgage insurance premium to be financed as part of the mortgage loan.
St. James Partners, a development group with offices in St. James, which builds houses on scattered lots in Wyandanch, pays up to $6,000 of a buyer's closing costs. Its houses range in price from $133,000 for a 1,150-square-foot three-bedroom ranch to $152,000 for a high ranch with 2,200 square feet and up to six bedrooms.
"If you can come up with a program under which people who pay $1,100 to $1,200 monthly to rent need no more in cash to buy as they would for security and rent, they will choose to buy," said Douglas Rotondi, one of the principals of the company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kathline and Shaun Malone inspect the construction site of their three-bedroom town house in Huntington. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; RENTING AND LEASING; SALES REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); SECONDARY MARKET FINANCING (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (50%); 

PERSON: SHAMAN, DIANA

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



578 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
How Much Is Too Much in Retail-Rich Paramus?

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

DATELINE: PARAMUS

 BODY:
A HUNDRED new retail outlets have opened or will soon open at the expanded Garden State Plaza in Paramus, which at 2 million square feet is among the largest malls on the East Coast.
Two anchors, Neiman Marcus and Lord & Taylor, opened earlier this month at the 700,000-square-foot, $240-million addition to the mall at Routes 4 and 17. This represents a significant increase to mall space in this Bergen County suburb, which has five malls totaling some 5 million square feet and myriad retail strips along the two highways. So how much is enough retail in Paramus? 
 "There has to be a point of no return," said Ted Kraus, who runs a real estate consulting firm in Mercerville, "But no one knows when it will be reached."
Apparently so. Two dormant or underdeveloped sites along Route 17 are being turned into more retail use or are in the planning stage for it. A third site has been purchased by a developer and the almost sure bet is that it will sprout retail, too, according to brokers, lawyers and industry experts. Collectively the sites could generate about 540,000 square feet of retail space.
They are occupied or were recently occupied by some of the last family-run businesses on the highway. When developed they would all but shut down such enterprises on the borough's major arteries.
"Most of the changeover is use-driven, the real estate is too valuable," said Stuart Liebman, a partner at the law firm of Wells, Jaworski, Liebman & Paton in Paramus. His firm represented the families in the lease or sale of their property.
One of the sites is occupied by the four-acre Bergen Bluestone Company site at Midland Avenue and northbound Route 17, where operations of the fourth-generation stone retailing and contracting business are winding down to make way for a 43,000-square-foot Office Depot outlet.
The other is the former 15-acre Faber Block and Cement site at the northbound entrance to Garden State Parkway on Route 17, which closed in the late 80's after being used to manufacture and sell bricks for four decades. The dormant site and five adjacent acres once owned by Faber and occupied by stores is now owned by Gabrellian Associates, a local developer.
Mr. Gabrellian said no plans had yet been made for the 20 acres. Current zoning would permit 150,000 square feet of retail space.
A third site is 40 acres occupied by the vacant Alexander's department store at the intersection of Routes 4 and 17 opposite Garden State Plaza. Several plans advanced in the last few years call for replacing the 350,000-square-foot building with a cluster of smaller retail structures.
The number of buildings and total amount of space has not been determined, though it will be more than the existing building, said Thomas Wells, the lawyer representing Alexander's. Up to 700,000 square feet of space is permitted under current zoning, he noted.
Progress on the site's redevelopment has been slowed by a $115-million road improvement project planned by the state's Transportation Department for the interchange at Routes 4 and 17, which requires about 10 acres of the Alexander's site. Mr. Wells said he was hopeful that negotiations with the state would be completed this year and that other state and local approvals needed for the project would quickly follow.
In most surveys of New Jersey's highway retail corridors Routes 4 and 17 in Paramus rank at or near the top in the state in terms of attracting retailers, despite the fact that the stores there are open only six days a week. Even in the wake of last year's wave of bankruptcy filings by retailers and weak consumer spending that hurt all markets, both did well.
IN a 1995 survey of the 10 major Northern and Central New Jersey corridors by R.J. Brunelli & Company, an Old Bridge-based retail brokerage, the vacancy rate in strip centers and free-standing stores along the entire 15-mile Route 17 corridor from Paramus to Mahwah was 4.6 percent. On a three-mile stretch of the Route 4 corridor from Paramus to Fair Lawn the rate was 6.8 percent.
Still, they were the second and fifth lowest, respectively, of the 10 corridors, where vacancies ranged from 3.8 percent on Route 18 in East Brunswick to 10.8 percent on Route 9 in central New Jersey.
The difference with the vacancies in Paramus, where the population swells during the day to 100,000 from 26,000, is that they do not last long. An example is the 40,000-square-foot Macy's furniture store on Route 4, which became available last year and created much of the corridor's vacancy.
It is now fully leased, reducing the rate to about 3 percent, said Richard Brunelli, president of the brokerage. He brokered a lease to Sneaker Stadium for half the building.
The key to this borough's appeal is demographics. For retailers who generally look at a five-mile trading area Paramus has some 525,343 people with an average household income of $55,820, Mr. Brunelli said. "Nowhere else in the state has that combination of income and tremendous population," he said.
Paramus, added Mr. Kraus, the Mercerville consultant, also attracts shoppers from Manhattan who are drawn by its accessibility and lower sales taxes.
But developers and retailers pay for those benefits. Land prices, which fell during the recession by 20 to 30 percent, have bounced back to $600,000 to $1 million an acre, said Michael N. Kasparian, a principal of Caspar Properties, a commercial real estate brokerage in Paramus. He said rents for blocks of retail space of 5,000 to 10,000 square feet range from $25 to $30 a square foot.
For Paramus, said Mayor Clifford Gennarelli, the taxes paid by the retail operations along Routes 4 and 17 make up 50 percent of the borough's tax base.
"What we do not want more of," he said, "is office buildings," explaining that they were a big contributor to the rush-hour traffic jams. The hope is that the road-improvement project at the Alexander's site, among other such projects, will help mitigate traffic problems.
The borough is also updating its master plan, including re-evaluating the zoning on sites at highway interchanges where retail use in prohibited in favor of offices. "The question now is whether to eliminate that zoning and let the market take its course," said Peter G. Steck, the borough's planning consultant. He said the market "seems to be pointing to big-box retailers and we want to evaluate if that is a healthy trend and if can do something about it."
While the heavy traffic is a bane to area residents it is a boon to retailers. National chains open stores on each highway or more than one store on the same highway, said Mr. Kasparian, pointing to Barnes & Noble, as an example.
It first opened a 17,000-square-foot store on Route 17 northbound just north of the Century Road interchange in early 1992. Two years later it opened a second, 40,000-square-foot store just north of Midland Avenue only to leave that space two years later to open a 60,000-square-foot store on Route 17 southbound just south of Linwood Avenue in the former Channel Home Center.
But while Barnes & Noble expands in the borough's retail hub, Bergen Bluestone is getting out of it.
"The economic realities are that the families see more income by leasing or selling their property than by operating their business on it," said Mr. Wells. He worked with the owners of Bergen Bluestone on an "over 50-year" lease of their four-acre site to Office Depot. It will be the third store in New Jersey for the chain, which is based in Del Ray Beach, Fla. The opening is set for late this year or early 1997, said Gary Schweikhart, a company spokesman.
Bluestone's president, Thomas C. Hansen, whose grandfather started Bergen Bluestone in 1932, said that no longer paid to be on what he called "the golden mile." Instead, he said he would continue to operate the business from a quarry site the family owns in Hancock, N.Y., and at a location elsewhere in the county, possibly on a less prominent part of Route 17.
"It is a tough chapter to close," he said, "but it is a good business deal."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas C. Hansen of Bergen Bluestone is leaving a 4-acre site on Route 17 to lease it to an Office Depot store. (Lenore Victoria Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: GARDEN STATE PLAZA MALL (PARAMUS, NJ) LORD & TAYLOR (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GARDEN STATE PLAZA MALL (PARAMUS, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARAMUS (NJ); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



579 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Japan's Lifetime Jobs: Foreigners Qualify, Too

BYLINE: By MIKI TANIKAWA 

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
IN a quiet change of culture, more Japanese companies have been extending to their foreign workers the special status of lifetime employment, which for the most part had been the exclusive right of Japanese-born employees for at least 30 years.
Media companies like NHK and Yomiuri Shimbun and giant corporations, including Mitsubishi, Nissho Iwai and Mitsui, are all adding foreigners to their permanent ranks. 
 "It's nice to know that I have my job next year and the year after that," said Joshua Adelstein, 27, an American reporter at Yomiuri Shimbun, Japan's largest-circulation newspaper. "Job security provides an inner peace that many hours of meditation can't compete with."
Employment experts say Japanese companies have begun to embrace foreign workers as the companies increase their operations overseas and realize they need the skills and perspective of the foreigners to compete better around the world. Last year, the number of foreigners holding working visas was about 88,000, up from 30,000 in 1986, the Justice Ministry said.
"As firms shift their operations overseas more, realization spread that they must secure and deploy talents regardless of the citizenship," said Takanori Matsuura, a professor who specializes in corporate recruitment at Tama University.
In the 1970's, the Sony Corporation was a pioneer in having foreigners become lifetime employees. One of the first to obtain the status, an American, retired from Sony last year.
"We draw 80 percent of our revenue from our operations abroad, so it was a natural direction for us to follow," said Kazushi Anbe, manager of the overseas human resources division at Sony.
Yasuhiko Fujiki, director of recruitment at the Orix Corporation, a leasing company, has found many good international job candidates at Japanese universities. Last year, for the first time, the company offered lifetime positions to six foreign workers.
The new corporate attitudes also reflect an increasing mobility in Japan's work force. Young workers, for example, have been willing to walk away from their first jobs to seek better opportunities.
And while recent layoffs, during an economic downturn, have shown that many jobs are no longer guaranteed, winning lifetime status is still significant, experts said, because it can give foreigners increased opportunities for promotions.
Of course, not all foreign workers want to spend their lives with one company.
Irene Kuge, 27, a Japanese-American, joined Toyota Motor after graduating from UCLA in 1992. Two years later, Toyota made it clear she had a lifetime job.
Although Ms. Kuge said she liked the security, she and many foreign co-workers do not know if they will remain with the company. "It's not a huge consideration," she said, "because most of us don't know if we want to stay for life, and if we do, what will our opportunities in the company be?"
Sakie Fukushima, a partner at Korn/ Ferry International Japan, an executive search firm, expects the opportunities for foreign employees to keep improving, provided that Japanese attitudes toward the workers continue to change. She said she would not be surprised someday to see, for example, "a German national heading Mitsubishi Corporation."
"The question is: Is that going to happen 10 years, 20 years or 30 years from now?" she said. "I would like to think that manpower is an international resource that transcends national borders."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Irene Kuge joined Toyota after graduating from UCLA in 1992 and now has a lifetime job with the company in Japan. She recently visited the company's New York office. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (84%); SNE (NYSE) (84%); 6758 (TSE) (84%); IX (NYSE) (66%); 8591 (TSE) (66%); KFY (NYSE) (60%); TYT (LSE) (51%); TM (NYSE) (51%); 7203 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS532411 COMMERCIAL AIR, RAIL & WATER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (66%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); SIC7361 EMPLOYMENT AGENCIES (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TOHOKU, JAPAN (78%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (84%); ORIX CORP (66%); KORN/FERRY INTERNATIONAL (60%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (51%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (78%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; FOREIGN LABOR FOREIGN LABOR (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); MEDITATION (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); LEASING INDUSTRY (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); 

PERSON: TANIKAWA, MIKI IRENE KUGE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



580 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 4; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON;
For These Democrats, It's Still the Economy

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES 

 BODY:
NOW it is the Democrats' turn.
At the Democratic National Convention, which begins on Monday in Chicago, 120 delegates, plus 17 alternates, will represent New Jersey. State Democratic officials say the group reflects New Jersey's diverse population, with 28 black delegates, or 20 percent, and 19 Hispanic delegates, or 14 percent. And there is no gender gap in the Garden State group: 69 are women and 68 men. 
 The delegates come from many walks of life: law (17), labor (14), education (14) and health care (4). Five delegates described themselves as homemakers, one as a corporate executive and another as banker. Two, Brendan T. Byrne and Jim Florio, are former Governors. About 30 are current officeholders at the local, state or Federal level, including Senators Bill Bradley and Frank R. Lautenberg.
"The whole message of the convention is going to be that we're the party of the mainstream," said Regan McGrory, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Democratic Committee. "It's real people. That's what this party's all about."
Among delegates profiled here are a health care worker of Puerto Rican descent who gives her time to boards in Highland Park and to women's issues; an Irish-American man who is a firefighter in Camden and the Mayor of Deptford, and a teacher of the blind, the first black woman ever elected to the Newark City Council.
All three expressed a real liking for President Clinton, brushing aside accusations by critics that he bends too easily with the political wind. Each said that creating jobs should be a priority for the country. (An interest in economic issues, "from jobs to being able to afford sending kids to college," is a constant theme in the delegation, said Jean Holtz, the state's delegate convention coordinator.)
And the three bring to the convention a sense of their own personal roots, a feeling that they have come far since their families first arrived in America, and that they should serve their country in return for their blessings.

CARMEN DIAZ
'It's My Civic Duty'
In 1992, Carmen Delia Diaz discovered that there were so many other volunteers at Clinton-Gore headquarters in New Brunswick, she had no desk or chair. So she went home, loaded a desk onto her old jalopy and carted it back.
With such dedication, she quickly rose to become deputy manager in the New Jersey campaign and a link to Hispanic voters. Ms. Diaz, who gives her age as 30-plus, attended the Democratic Convention that year as a member of the campaign finance committee. She is on the credentials committee this year.
For Ms. Diaz, who works as a coordinator in the emergency room at Robert Wood Johnson Hospital in New Brunswick, the convention is yet another step in a journey of self-discovery and political advocacy that took root when she became the first person in her family to attend college.
Her parents -- who left Puerto Rico in the early 1950's and bought a home in Perth Amboy, where her father worked for many years as a laborer in the American Smelting Company -- preached the value of getting an education.
She worked her way through Douglass College in New Brunswick, which she credits for giving her, aside from a B.A. in urban studies in 1987, the "confidence and courage to believe in myself to do anything I want to do."
There she spent a year in a leadership program for Hispanic women at the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers. Her political involvement was sparked in 1989, when she joined the Women's Political Caucus of New Jersey.
She is currently president of the caucus's Middlesex County chapter. In Highland Park, she is chairwoman of the Human Rights Commission and a member of the planning board, and is also a member of Middlesex County Commission on the Status of Women.
She said she supported President Clinton because he "is for all Americans" and has an "unprecedented record of support" for issues vital to women.
Ms. Diaz, who is married, said she still felt like a "student of politics" who had much to learn.
"I feel it's my civic duty," she said, "as a woman, as a Latina, as an American citizen, that I should stay involved and participate."

WILLIAM W. BAIN JR.
Putting Jobs First
William W. Bain Jr., whose grandparents emigrated from County Cork and County Galway in Ireland, is a veteran firefighter whose firehouse on Broadway in downtown Camden is about three blocks from where he was born 48 years ago.
He is the son of a laborer who worked in the Camden Coke Plant for 43 years and is proud that one of his own children, Joel, followed him into the Camden Fire Department.
Since January he has also been the Mayor of Deptford Township, a community of 25,000 people about eight miles from Camden, where he moved in 1977 and became active in the local Democratic club, serving as secretary and vice president, and in activities of the Gloucester County Democrats. He entered public life as a councilman in 1990.
This will be the first convention for a "truly excited" Mr. Bain, who is on the rules committee.
Mr. Bain, who has been secretary of Local 788 of the International Association of Firefighters for most of his 27 years as a firefighter, with a stint as vice president, said he believed that union members who became so-called Reagan Democrats would abandon the Republican Party of Bob Dole and Newt Gingrich.
"The 104th Congress let everyone know who they were," Mr. Bain said. "This Republican Contract With America is killing the working man."
He said that he liked President Clinton personally, calling him "the best hope we have right now," and added that accusations calling Mr. Clinton's integrity into question were politically motivated and unproven.
The No. 1 issue? "Jobs," he said. "We need employment. We need to get good jobs."
Mr. Bain contributes half of his $3,800 salary as Mayor to a scholarship fund that he set up at the local high school. Among his charitable efforts was serving as president of the Southern New Jersey Chapter of the Muscular Dystrophy Association.
"That's what it's all about: trying to make it better for people," he said.
"I really hope, as God is my judge, that everything I tried to do makes a difference, whether helping someone down the street or picking the next president of the United States," Mr. Bain said. "As corny as that may sound, I really believe it."

MILDRED C. CRUMP
A Lifetime of Service
Mildred C. Crump, a teacher of the blind and the first black woman to be elected to the Newark City Council, said that political involvement was in her blood. It is, she believes, a characteristic passed down from her grandfather, who was a 6-year-old slave at the time of the Emancipation Proclamation and grew up to become a leader of the black community in Cuthbert, Ga., respected by residents both white and black.
"I don't remember when I wasn't involved in politics, because my Dad was a union organizer," said Mrs. Crump, whose late father was a sanitation worker in her native Detroit. "My dad believed politics was the engine that drove everything that happened to people."
A past president of the board of Habitat for Humanity in Newark, the organization that builds affordable housing for low-income families, and active in distributing food to the poor, she said of her civic activities: "It's all I've ever known. Be involved. Give back to the community."
Mrs. Crump, a 56-year-old widow with two grown children, was a delegate for Jesse Jackson in 1988.
"I'm as excited about being a delegate for Bill Clinton," said Mrs. Crump. "I don't think Bill Clinton is perfect, but for me, he speaks to the greatest percentage of issues that benefit the public."
In 1961, fresh out of Wayne State University with a degree in special education, she got involved in politics by running the State Senate campaign of a friend. After her late husband, Cecil, a linguist for AT&T, was transferred to New Jersey in 1965, settling in Newark, she campaigned for local candidates.
Noting an absence of women on the council, she ran herself in 1986, 1989, and 1990, but lost each time. In July 1994, after receiving the most votes of 13 candidates, including incumbents, she began serving as a Councilwoman at large. To do so full time, she took a leave of absence as a Braille teacher for the New Jersey Commission for the Blind.
As a delegate, she said, she hopes to influence policy on issues like education, jobs, health care and welfare reform that will "trickle down" to Newark.
"I believe," she says, "that what comes out of this convention will set the tone for years to come."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chicago-bound: Delegates to the Democratic convention include William W. Bain Jr., a Camden firefighter and Mayor of Deptford; Carmen Delia Diaz, bottom left, at work in the emergency room at Robert Wood Johnson Hospital in New Brunswick, and Mildred C. Crump, a teacher of the blind and Newark City Council member. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CAMDEN FIRE DEPARTMENT (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMDEN FIRE DEPARTMENT (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); MAYORS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CITIES (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE; DIAZ, CARMEN; BAIN, WILLIAM W JR; CRUMP, MILDRED C BILL CLINTON (88%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



581 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY & CO.;
What Slump? Garden State Plaza Adds More Mall Than Ever

BYLINE: By EDWARD LEWINE 

DATELINE: PARAMUS

 BODY:
For years the Garden State Plaza in Paramus has sat beside the traffic cloverleaf where Routes 4 and 17 meet, a growing retail behemoth that has been both an economic blessing to Bergen County, with sales of around $500 million a year, and a traffic curse.
Now it is expanding again. 
 On Aug. 15 the mall's owners, the Westfield Corporation and Rodamco, opened a $200 million expansion that is expected to add about 100 stores to the 200-store mall and increase its size by about 800,000 square feet, to 2 million square feet.
And as if to confirm the adage comparing retailing to warfare, two new competitors are threatening to add about 6 million square feet of retail and shopping space a short drive from the Paramus interchange.
Garden State Plaza, the state's first mall when it opened in 1957, has essentially charted a middle course on pricing since it became a covered mall in 1981. With Nordstrom, J.C. Penney and Macy's in place since 1991, it is less upscale than Riverside Square farther east on Route 4, but fancier than Paramus Park, which is north along Route 17.
The Garden State expansion, which was completed a few months ahead of schedule, will continue this strategy with the addition of the ritzy Neiman Marcus and the more mainstream Lord & Taylor. These two new anchors, as large department stores are called in the mall business, along with the three existing ones, will be supported by a wide variety of shops, from Henri Bendel to Champion sportswear to the Channel 13 Store of Knowledge.
"That's the formula we're going for," said Lucille DeHart, a spokeswoman for the mall. "It is unusual to be everything to everyone."
Representatives from retailers like Bendel and Neiman Marcus said that they were confident about their decisions to move into the new mall, which anticipates $700 million in annual sales. But they admitted that since 1991 malls have not done as well as in the boom years of the 1970's and 1980's.
"Regional shopping centers are in trouble," said Kurt Barnard, an industry analyst. "They are not easy to shop, too many stores look alike and it takes a long time to park. Today people want to get done quickly."
Ms. DeHart said the mall would try to help shoppers with shuttle buses to and from the far reaches of its 10,000-space parking lot, valet parking, customer service representatives at key locations and strollers and electric shopping carts for rent.
She said that Garden State Plaza had been generally immune to industry downturns because of its size, the $78,000 annual income of its average shopper, the 1.1 million people who live within 20 miles and the 200,000 cars that pass by it each day. In fact, traffic was already an issue when the mall was a mere 1.2 million square feet.
"The expansion is slightly controversial because of the fears of the residents about traffic," said Rich Lambert, who is the Police Commissioner and a committee member in the Borough of Paramus.
Both the mall and the government are taking steps to reduce the inevitable increase in traffic congestion. A new southbound lane has been built on the Route 17 bridge over Route 4. And Chester Mattson, the director of planning for Bergen County, said the state had a $90 million plan of its own that would include a figure-eight bridge from the mall to the parking lot across the highway that Alexander's department store once used. There will also be new northbound and southbound lanes on Route 17, and new bridges connecting Route 17 north and south to Route 4 west and east, respectively.
Once drivers get to the mall they will find 25 new stores in the expanded section, including both new anchors. The grand opening of the new section is to take place in November, and according to the mall there are no vacancies.
Meanwhile, to the north, just off the Palisades Interstate Parkway in Nyack, N.Y., developers want to expand Palisades Center Mall, which is not even scheduled to open until next spring. Counting entertainment and retail space, the mall would be nearly 4 million square feet, only 200,000 square feet smaller than the immense Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn., the country's largest.
To the south, near the Meadowlands Sports Complex, developers have proposed a project called Meadowlands Mills that would have 2.1 million square feet of retail space, plus office buildings.
"Some consumers say that malls are too big," said Mark Shoiffet, a spokesman for the mall industry. "But the most successful malls are the largest ones."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Garden State Plaza in Paramus opened a $200 million expansion this month. (The Bergen Record)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UL (PAR) (57%); UL (AMS) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (72%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (57%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (54%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: GARDEN STATE PLAZA MALL (PARAMUS, NJ); WESTFIELD CORP; RODAMCO (CO) WESTFIELD CORP (72%); UNIBAIL-RODAMCO SA (57%); STORE OF KNOWLEDGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GARDEN STATE PLAZA MALL (PARAMUS, NJ); WESTFIELD CORP; RODAMCO (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (91%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (76%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (63%); 

PERSON: LEWINE, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



582 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE FOOTBALL PREVIEW 1996;
Despite Complications, Big 12 Is Instant Commercial Hit

BYLINE: By Malcolm Moran 

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
If you've run into the elephant statues, you're in the wrong place. The newest conference in America will be easy to spot on autumn Saturdays. For now, Mondays through Fridays present the only problem. Someday soon, the Big 12 Conference will occupy 16,500 square feet of 28th-story office space, a cost-free testament to the newfound collective clout of its membership, with 30-foot windows providing views of the Dallas skyline.
 
 For now, to find the Big 12 offices you look for the men's room off to the side in an expansive series of lobbies within a hotel complex, not far from one of the two Budd has but nowhere near the elephants. You turn left, go up a narrow stairwell, and discover the type of office environment that "60 Minutes" infiltrates with cameras hidden in briefcase. "We don't have the greatest office in the world," said Donnie Duncan, the senior associate commissioner. "But we have the greatest lobby."
 Welcome to the Big 12, where the lobby is just the beginning. With some staff business cards still sealed in fresh boxes, the conference possessed 6 of the top 24 football teams in the preseason Associated Press media poll, 3 of the top 8, and 2 of the top 5, including the two-time defending champion Nebraska Cornhuskers. It has exactly 30 months of tradition, a sometimes painful and often contentious period during which former members of the Big Eight plus the Southwest Conference evacuees Texas, Texas A&M, Texas Tech and Baylor created new working relationships, forfeited much of their old identities and grappled to arrive at a precise definition of their creation.
 Was it a merger?
 Is it a Big Eight expansion?
 "It is a new conference," said Steve Hatchell, the commissioner, who until July 1 was one of the conference's only two employees.
 That simple definition, and misunderstandings that grew from conflicting interpretations, created a threat to the existence of the conference before the first kickoff or jump ball. At its best, the Big 12 commands something that neither the Big Eight nor the S.W.C. ever could - the influence that accompanies 15 percent of the nation's TV sets. The struggle has been to achieve a consensus on a number of fundamental issues within a short period of time while establishing itself in the marketplace.
 The commercial success has exceeded the most optimistic expectations. An intense series of bids to house the conference offices, which included Kansas City, Mo. - the former big Eight site - plus Colorado Springs, Omaha and Lubbock, Tex., led to a five-year, $1.25 million agreement under which the city of Dallas will offset the conference's operating expenses.
 Gatorade will provide cups and coolers at championship events as part of a five-year, $1.33 million deal. Dr. Pepper will become the title sponsor of the football championship game for four years at $1 million per year. Phillips 66, Southwest Airlines and State Farm Insurance are among other sponsors.
 In addition to football, the conference expects to have at least eight championships sponsored during this academic year for a minimum total of $2.4 million.
 "The bottom line," Hatchell said, "is it's not going to cost us anything to do much of anything for 10 years."
 Other steps forward have not been quite as simple. Only 2 of 12 schools, Kansas State and Iowa State, are run by the same chief executive officer who was in place when the formation of the conference was first discussed. Dr. James Moeser, who became the Nebraska chancellor Feb. 1, is that school's third leader since the process began.
 Over the last two and a half years, in private conversations, coaches and officials at conference schools have occasionally sounded like wedding guests establishing an over-under on the divorfce date before the ceremony takes place.
 The former S.W.C. members, who operated under stricter academic guidelines than the Big Eight, created the perception of a serious enough threat that Tom Osborne, the Niebraska football coach, delivered a remarkable, unsolicited appeal for the conference to liberalize its proposed entrance requirements during a news conference immediately following his team's Fiesta Bowl victory over Florida last January.
 It was not persuasive enough. By an 11-1 vote, with Nebraska the lone dissenter, the conference determined that each year, members could admit no more than two partial qualifiers, who are students who fall to achieve the grade-point average, core requirement and standardized test score under National Collegiate Athletic Association rules. Football teams are limited to one partial qualifier each year.
 "The conference has place itself in a noncompetitive position." Moeser said. "A prominent athlete who has an opportunity to play at Ohio State or Penn State or Southern California, if Nebraska says, 'We're not sure we can give you a scholarship,' is not going to come here."
 Nebraska's approach, according to Moeser, will be to wait for less successful conference teams to discover they ar elimited by the rule, and then support a revision.
 "We're not going to go out unflaterally," he said. "I think it was incorrectly seen as a self-serving, self-protecting mechanism to protect what kind of competitive advantage we have. Our position has been we were outvoted on this issue. We will play by the rules utnil the rules are charged."
 Osborne's position, however, has been to continue his offensive. During the first campus news conference at the start of practice, reporters were presented with charts showing a 46.9 percent average graduation rate among Big 12 programs - 17.1 percentage points less than Nebraska's in the most recent N.C.A.A. report. The average rate of junior college transfers at Big 12 schools was just 30.6 percent. Osborne feels that athletes with borderline academic credentials would have a greater chance of earning a degree if they could begin work immediately at a four-year school.
 Osborne maintained his appeal was not meant to gain access to athletes with lesser academic credentials, but to encourage each of the Big 12 members to provide opportunities to groups that are most adversely affected, particularly the economically disadvantaged.
 "A lot of folks think I'm doing all this talking to try to win football games," he said. "What I'm looking at is what this is doing to our country.
 "There are lot of kids that can use college athletics that are being denied an opportunity to go. If it was substantially improving the situation that would be one thing. But I'm a little apprehensive and concerned about what we're doing because it looks good."
 The issue is not going away and has not been fully accepted despite an 11-1 vote. "I get a lot of energy from the fact that these people aren't just going to line up and say, 'Oh, this sounds good,' and go on down the road," Hatchell said. "Egos don't fly in formation. These people are independent thinkers. There is great strength in that for the conference."
 "Everybody was forced to go from one major issue to another major issue, on and on, without taking a deep breath," Hatchell said. "I think after a while you lose sight of what the goal is. The goal is to put the conference together."

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Brown, the outstanding junio quarterback for Texas, working out as the Longhorns prepared for the first Big 12 Conference season (Bill Kennedy for The New York Times); Chart of the teams of the Big 12 and prior conference affiliation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (77%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); LUBBOCK, TX, USA (73%); OMAHA, NE, USA (54%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (77%); DALLAS, TX, USA (90%); LUBBOCK, TX, USA (73%); OMAHA, NE, USA (54%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COLLEGE ATHLETICS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); SOFT DRINKS (60%); 

PERSON: MORAN, MALCOLM DAVID DAVIS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996



583 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 13; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Does Battle With Chicago '68

BYLINE: By Paul Berman; Paul Berman is the author of "A Tale of Two Utopias: The Political Journey of the Generation of 1968."

 BODY:
Every now and then, one of America's political parties finds a perfect accusation to throw at its electoral enemies -- an accusation so devastating and impressive that whole generations have to come and go before the charge loses force.
The greatest example was the accusation that was lodged against the Democrats in 1864, in the middle of the Civil War. Abraham Lincoln and the Republicans accused the Democrats of being the party of Southern secession, and the charge proved so effective at the polls that the Republicans kept repeating it for decades to come. In that manner, during the entire period from Lincoln's day until 1912, the Republicans won the White House in 11 out of 13 elections. 
 The Democrats came up with an accusation of their own in 1932, at the depth of the Great Depression. Franklin D. Roosevelt and the Democrats blamed Herbert Hoover and the Republican Party for the economic collapse. It was an excellent accusation. The Democrats stuck with it for 40 years and more. And never once did they have reason to regret doing so.
The grand accusation that figures in the politics of today -- the charge against which Bill Clinton has had to struggle (and lately he's done so with a lot of skill) -- got its start in 1968. The Vietnam War, the race riots, the university uprisings and the assassinations of President John F. Kennedy, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy meant that once again the country was in a bad way.
In that context, Richard Nixon and the Republicans gazed at the Democrats' 1968 convention in Chicago. They watched a Democratic constituency -- the antiwar protesters -- taunt the Chicago cops and get brained for doing it. And the grand new accusation, the devastating and impressive charge that has lasted for decades, went spilling from Republican lips. It was the accusation that Democrats encouraged lawnessness, drugs, sex, draft-dodging and college layabouts.
The accusation has proved hardy. Elections have come and gone since then, but the accusation rests eternal. If the personal attacks on Mr. Clinton have radiated an exceptional nastiness over these past four years, it is because the particular charges against him -- the alleged womanizing, non-inhalation and draft-dodging -- draw strength from the original complaint of 1968. (In the typology of scandals, Whitewater figures as more of a Republican-type affair and has no ideological underpinning.)
When Bob Dole responds to Mr. Clinton's birthday celebration by accusing the White House of being run by people from an "elite" who have never suffered and have never grown up, he is merely hitting the old accusatory note and in its classic generational form: the World War II veteran fuming at the Vietnam War protester from a fancy university. And when Mr. Dole says that he remembers a better America, everybody knows precisely when that long-lost world of his imaginings used to exist: before 1968, before the elite layabouts with their low morals came on the national scene.
The charge that dates from 1968 differs from those of 1864 and 1932 in one important respect. In some corner of their partisan souls, the targets of those earlier accusations recognized their own guilt.
The 19th-century Democrats did bear a responsibility for the Civil War, as did the Republicans of the 1920's for the Great Depression, and there was no point in claiming otherwise.
But what does the accusation from 1968 specify? It says that the antiwar protest movement's low morals and lack of reverence for tradition and authority undid the culture of America, and that the consequences have been sociological: crime, illegitimacy, AIDS and so forth.
Yet when the former protesters and their cultural descendants, most of them currently incarnated as Democratic liberals, gaze back on the protest movements of the 1960's, they see something else.
They see two grand and admirable causes: the civil rights movement and the antiwar movement -- surrounded by a constellation of other movements and impulses, not all of them admirable (though there are some people who insist on viewing everything as admirable). They see several advances for democracy and individual liberty and a certain spirit of cultural mayhem. They see a puzzling fondness for political stances that were often self-defeating. But they do not see the caricature offered by their accusers.
On the other hand, they do see how even their own accusers have benefited from the radical past. They see how at San Diego the same Bob Dole who regrets the disappearance of the pre-1968 America surrounded himself with symbols of the post-1968 era. For there was Gen. Colin Powell, who has done honor to, among other things, affirmative action. And there was Representative Susan Molinari, who has enjoyed the freedom to experiment with drugs in college (even though she now claims to regret this action), the freedom to walk away from her first marriage without opprobrium and the freedom to pursue a professional career. She is, to Democratic eyes, someone who has lived the life of a liberated woman, post-'68.
So Democratic liberals examine the accusation against them and cannot really understand it; and they examine their accusers, whom they understand all too well, and they sputter. Which is to say the liberals are left befuddled and speechless, except for the feeble cry of hypocrisy, and they have been left that way since 1968.
In the years from 1968 until the Clinton era, the Democrats responded to the accusation against them by nominating, election after election, candidates of obvious rectitude. But having endured one too many electoral defeats, the Democrats came up with Mr. Clinton in 1992.
You might suppose that he would be the most vulnerable of candidates, since he is the first Democratic leader whose past even remotely resembles the Republican caricature. But Mr. Clinton has responded by adopting the sort of maneuverability that allows him, when the Republicans prattle about family values, to out-prattle the prattlers -- and, when the Republicans veer right, to veer one inch to their left.
The return to Chicago for this Democratic convention is bound to afford Mr. Clinton and his supporters a limitless opportunity for beating the Republicans to their own punch. For this week's scenes of former protesters hobnobbing with Chicago cops will be wondrous, and no room will be left for an angry accusation.
Naturally, Mr. Clinton's maneuverings do not always endear him to his party's traditional constituents -- me, for example. But Mr. Clinton has learned from Richard Nixon that winning and being loved are not the same thing.
The Republicans see that, too. They hurl the word "waffling" in Mr. Clinton's face. After the President signed the unfortunate welfare bill last Thursday, Mr. Dole complained that the President is "ideologically adrift." But Mr. Clinton is bound to think: So what? To accuse a man of drifting is not like accusing him of undermining the national morality.
On the contrary, the complaint about drifting shows that here is a genuinely clever politician, the first on the Democratic side in a long time -- someone with the talent to cope with the Republican accusation that for almost 30 years has dealt so many defeats to the Democrats.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (85%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WORLD WAR II (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); RIOTS (65%); 

PERSON: BERMAN, PAUL; DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



584 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 25, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: Westhampton Beach: Image and Reality

BYLINE: By MARY CUMMINGS 

 BODY:
EACH village and hamlet in the Hamptons has its own personality, as insiders never tire of explaining to tourists.
East Hampton is regarded as arty. Southampton as the old guard's last bastion. Bridgehampton, once hardly more than a blur in the rear-view mirror en route from one to the other, has made a rapid ascent, establishing itself as a hot spot for the fashionably trendy. 
 Meanwhile, Westhampton Beach, by many accounts, has been slipping.
Even boosters acknowledge that the westernmost Hampton has problems. The first Hampton that New Yorkers encounter going east, it was the first in the building boom of the 70's and 80's.
Westhampton Beach was also the first community to attract house-sharing singles, thanks to its extensive inventory of lower-cost housing and beachfront condominiums. Now, it is once again in the forefront, many residents say, as the first to face the challenges of a new, post-development era.
Last February, concerned that Westhampton was developing a reputation as a second-rate Hampton that the fashionable people were bypassing, a group of residents decided to act. At the suggestion of Rabbi Marc Schneier, founding rabbi of the village's two-year-old Hampton Synagogue, they formed the Westhampton Beach Partnership. The group aims to restore economic and cultural vitality to the village and neighboring Quiogue, Quogue, Remsenburg and Westhampton.
Spearheaded largely by residents with close ties to the city, the group has modeled itself in at least one respect on similarly oriented non-governmental New York City initiatives. To help burnish the area's image, members agreed, as s one of their first acts, to hire a public-relations agency from Manhattan, Rubenstein Associates, whose clients include the Association for a Better New York and the New York City Partnership. According to the Rubenstein consultant on the account, Lonnie Soury, the firm is being paid $50,000 a year.
In meetings on alternating Sundays the partnership has drawn up two sets of objectives, Mr. Soury said. Short-term, he asserted, there are "some eyesores -- some empty lots and a gas station at the end of Main Street that has been empty for years." Those are proposed for beautification, he said.
In February the partnership placed a nightspot on Main Street, Marakesh, the site of a dispute in May that officials call racially motivated, "at the top of our list" of priorities, Mr. Soury said. Residents had criticized the nightclub, saying it attracted short-term visitors who drank too much, spent too little and sometimes made trouble. The State Liquor Authority has suspended the bar's license.
"We are hopeful that the State Liquor Authority will keep it closed," a member of the partnership, Leonard Conway, said. Mr. Conway, who operates an investment business, Conway & Company, from an office in his house, described the partnership's targets as "the typical problems of a resort-based community."
The most important objective, he said, may be to encourage a broad-based economy that can thrive, if not year-round, at least for an extended season of "six, seven or even eight months."
"None of these communities are ever going to be bustling 12 months a year," Mr. Conway said. "But there are things we can try to do to build more support."
One possibility, he said, might be the extension to Main Street of a canal that now stops 150 feet short of the main commercial strip. Some proponents believe it may be the best way to capitalize on an asset no other Hampton possesses -- a marine environment that melds with the village. Advocates point to Annapolis, Md., where commerce thrives around a lively marina, as an example of what they have in mind and they say that Westhampton Beach has always offered more for boaters than its Hamptons neighbors.
This fall, in place of the traditional Oktoberfest, the community will be host to a three-day maritime festival.
Mr. Conway acknowledged that the obstacles to an extended canal could be formidable. At this point, he said, the partnership was actively exploring the idea, talking to engineers and looking into options for financing the project. Mr. Conway added that the partnership was also eager to see a sewage system replace the cesspools in the Main Street area.
The group, he said, would also like to establish a year-round cultural center. The group, he added, has an eye on an Art Deco movie house.
Because of empty streets in the off season and a corresponding lack of broad-based yearlong attractions, the improvement effort faces a "cart-and-horse" problem, Mr. Conway said.
In the belief that the kinds of fashionable stores and restaurants they have pledged in their mission statement to encourage won't open in Westhampton Beach unless improvements to the infrastructure come first, members of the partnership have given the sewer improvements high priority.
Bartley Wilensky, who became mayor on July 1, said about the partnership, "I was one of those people sitting back, saying, 'Who are these people who are going to decide the fate of my village?' "
He now believes, he said, that "their hearts -- and their pocketbooks -- are in the village."
"They do have access to wealth," Mr. Wilensky said. "That's their game -- money, fund raising, bond issues."
That would be a boon, particularly for the sewage system, he said, noting that in the summer some businesses "have to pump just about daily when they have crowds"
That can cost $300 for each instance. One restaurateur, the Mayor said, reported spending $22,000 a year for pumping his cesspool.
"If the community is serious about expanding activities," Mr. Conway said, "it will have to support them financially. Nothing gets done these days without that kind of private support."
The partnership, he suggested, can help the community as "a vehicle to tap the experience and resources of residents."
In addition to "leading investment bankers," Rabbi Schneier said, the members of the partnership include the president of Donna Karan, Stephen L. Ruzow, and the chairman of a company that manufactures fashions under the Christian Dior label, Neal Hochman.
"It's all about using local resources," Rabbi Schneier said. And if the area is to shed what the rabbi referred to its image as the "stepchild of the Hamptons," it will not be a building boom.
"We're built," said Norma Reynolds, who was born in the town and has a real-estate business on Main Street. "We've done it. We're at the stage of renovation now."
Ms. Reynolds has seen it happen. First there was a fishing and farming community in Westhampton Beach. "Then we had the assault of building, when the local people made their money selling their land," Ms. Reynolds said. Now that is occurring further East, she added, "where the last farms are becoming more houses, sometimes vineyards. "
"You're seeing it in East Hampton and Southampton now," she added, "the growth that took place many years ago in Westhampton Beach."
Even the influx of singles that gave Westhampton Beach its reputation as a "groupie heaven" in the 70's and 80's has moved on, Ms. Reynolds said, added that "now they are going to Southampton, Bridgehampton and East Hampton, because they have to go where the social life is."
Ms. Reynolds predicted that the growth of hot spots would continue "until they can't move, until they're done, finished."
"Then everyone will settle down and decide what happened to their village," she said.
That is what Westhampton Beach is now undergoing, she said, adding:
"We lost our village. It is called growth, and it is not particularly attractive. But some good things have come of it."
The effects include an identity problem, Ms. Reynolds said, who regards the partnership as part of a larger effort to define the postdevelopment community and make it a desirable area for families to live in.
"Many people are coming back," she said about former residents whohad followed the spotlight east, only to be driven back by the crowds and the traffic. "They can't get there, and when they get there they can't go anywhere."
With sparse vacant land, Ms. Reynolds said, people are house hunting in the hedge-lined estate sections and renovating lovely old cottages. The newcomers are buying at what Ms. Reynolds said were extremely good prices because of the unfashionable image. "We are at a low," she said. "But we are going to go up. It's a buyer's market here. Out there, it's a seller's market."
Rabbi Schneier has perceived the same demographic shift, "with singles moving east and the Westhampton Beach area becoming the great family place." Walk down Main Street, he said, and 'all you see are families with children."
To the "water capital of the Hamptons," he said, add "the family community of the Hamptons."
It may sound like unabashed image building, but in the Hamptons reality can be less important than image.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RUBENSTEIN ASSOCIATES INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTHAMPTON (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); DRINKING PLACES (60%); 

PERSON: CUMMINGS, MARY LEONARD CONWAY (89%); LONNIE SOURY (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996



585 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: In U.S. Drug War, Battlefield Is Global

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Election-Year Posturing on Drugs" (editorial, Aug. 19) is flawed in calling for isolationist policies that are doomed to fail. When Senator Paul Coverdell of Georgia sponsored an amendment to increase international counternarcotics funding, he did so in response to United States national security interests. 
 Drug abuse and its related crime and violence are wreaking havoc with our country, not least among the poorest segments of our society. While we must redouble our efforts at home, the most harmful drugs -- cocaine, heroin and most methamphetamines -- originate outside United States borders.
Given your use of statistics, readers could be forgiven for assuming that the focus of our fight against drugs is outside our borders. Funds allocated to combat drug trafficking overseas make up only 5 percent of the Federal drug budget. But that 5 percent enables overseas training and support for government institutions vital in defending against the drug trade -- police, customs, immigration and entire judicial systems. We also support efforts to eradicate drug crops and create alternative economic options.
These programs will not bring about an instant cure. But in the long run, they will benefit all countries involved by helping to stop drugs at the source and preventing drug traffickers from creating narco-democracies.
 
JANE E. BECKER
Acting Asst. Secretary of State
for International Narcotics
and Law Enforcement Affairs
Washington, Aug. 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; EDITORIALS CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); HEROIN (73%); COCAINE (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); METHAMPHETAMINE (70%); 

PERSON: BECKER, JANE E (ASST SEC) PAUL DOUGLAS COVERDELL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



586 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: After Wrack and Ruin, Tourism in California Rebounds

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
After a battering by earthquakes, urban riots and recession, California is in the midst of a tourist boom. Hotels, amusement parks and attractions from San Diego to San Francisco are racking up record numbers of visitors.
"This state is having just a land-office summer," said John Poimiroo, the state tourism director. 
 Although tourism nationwide will increase 2 percent this summer over last, according to D. K. Shifflet & Associates, a research concern in McLean, Va., it is expected to rise 6 percent in California.
With the summer waning, the state shows every sign of meeting if not exceeding those projections. In all, 1 in 6 tourist dollars nationwide is spent in the state.
Tourism in Southern California is especially strong, fueled by a steady influx of foreign visitors. The occupancy rate at hotels in Los Angeles climbed to 71 percent this year, the highest rate since 1989. It had plummeted to 57 percent in May 1992, the month after the riots that followed the acquittal of police officers in the beating of Rodney J. King. Hotels downtown registered a 21-percent gain in the first quarter compared with the same period in 1995 and a 55 percent gain in April over April 1995.
One reason for the bullish season is that "we haven't seen any disasters to scare off visitors in a few years," said Helen Chang, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco Convention and Visitors Bureau.
Those disasters included the San Francisco earthquake that killed 67 in 1989, the Los Angeles quake that killed 61 in 1994, and the 1992 riots.
California was also hit hard by the nationwide recession that helped shrink the number of visits by Americans to the state, to 183 million in 1993, from 192 million in 1992.
The new wave of tourism has been fed by the many low-cost airlines operating throughout the Western states, from which California derives most out-of-state visitors.
California has been on a roll for more than a year. Last year it attracted 197 million American tourists, 9 million more than in 1994 and 47 million more than runner-up Florida's 149.6 million last year.
The rise in California's share of the nation's tourists, to 10.9 percent last year from 10.4 percent in 1994, was the first increase in eight years.
Those figures are especially meaningful in a state that has known hard times and where tourism brought in $55.2 billion last year and accounted for almost 700,000 jobs, behind only health care and business services.
The state boasts 3 of the nation's 10 most popular theme parks, including Disneyland, a perennial leader. Attendance at Disneyland, in Anaheim, fell 20 percent from 1990 to 1994 and jumped 38 percent last year, to 14.1 million, according to Amusement Business, a trade magazine. Attendance is strong again this year.
Crowds have also been flocking to Universal Studios near Hollywood to experience a new $110 million "Jurassic Park" ride. Attendance is up an estimated 40 percent at the park this summer over last, and the 43,000 visitors on July 5 broke a 31-year-old single-day record by 22 percent.
"A friend from home visited Los Angeles a few months ago and told me not to miss Jurassic Park when I came," Manuel Gutierrez of Madrid said after a day at the park. "I've never been on a ride like that before. It was great."
Part of the comeback, especially among international tourists, can be credited to "Baywatch," a television program syndicated throughout much of the world that depicts adventures of lifeguards on a California beach. And streams of tourists are visiting sites that played roles in the the O. J. Simpson murder case.
"Lots of our guests, including lots of foreign guests, want to know where the jurors slept and how close is the courthouse," said Lew Fader, general manager of the Intercontinental Hotel, where the jury was sequestered. "They'll pull out maps and ask, 'Where's 875 South Bundy Drive?' " the scene of the slaying.
San Francisco's hotel occupancy rate of 74 percent last year led all California cities, Ms. Chang said. And it rose 5.5 percent in the first quarter of this year, she added.
Occupancy in the Fishermen's Wharf area, a leading attraction, increased 14.4 percent in the first quarter.
While studying a map to plot her route to Fishermen's Wharf, Hyazintha Borstner of Austria said her tour of American cities would not have been complete without San Francisco. The reason is that in Europe people do not usually see such a harmonious cultural mix, she said, citing the former Yugoslavia. "Here," she added, "you see how people of different origins and cultures live together in peace."
Even though the number of tourists from Mexico and Canada has fallen because of those countries' weak currencies, visitors from Japan, Germany and Britain continue to flock to San Francisco and Los Angeles. Foreigners make up almost 25 percent of the 22 million annual visitors to Los Angeles, and they generate 40 percent of its $9.7 billion in tourism revenues.
Many foreigners have been enticed by marketing trips that the state and some cities have made to Europe, Asia and South America. In the last year, West Hollywood, a 1.9-square-mile city in Los Angeles County, marketed its hotels and attractions in London, Berlin and Sydney. Two months ago it was host for 1,000 foreign tour operators and travel agents at a convention here.
After the riots, California sponsored a $20 million advertising campaign in Japan to lure free-spending Japanese tourists, whose numbers dropped from 1.1 million in 1989 to 785,000 in 1992. But although many Japanese travel elsewhere in the United States on their own or with family or friends, two-thirds of the Japanese tourists in Southern California arrive in tour groups, concerned about safety, experts say.
The passage of time has also helped increased tourism. "After the riots I was a little scared about going to Los Angeles," said Steven Jefferson, who was visiting from Miami. "But now, I don't hear as much about crime in Los Angeles, or at least I haven't read much about it lately."
"Something like 8 of the 10 safest cities in America are in California," Mr. Poimiroo said. "And Los Angeles is right in the middle of the safety ranking. But you wouldn't know it from what you see on TV."
But San Diegans are pleased with the television images of their city from the Republican National Convention. Even before the convention, the city had its highest hotel occupancies and largest attendance at conventions in recent years. "But because San Diego has been overshadowed by San Francisco and Los Angeles," said Reint Reinders, president of the San Diego Convention and Visitors Bureau, "we haven't been as well known as we would like."
San Diego will still probably be overshadowed by San Francisco and Los Angeles. But the favorable impression is expected to be a plus. "It probably won't create a big surge in visitors all at once," said Matt DeLine, president of San Diego Hotel Reservations. "But the effect of that publicity will be felt for a very long time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tourism is strong again in California. One of the big attractions has been Universal Studios near Hollywood. Visitors who just rode the "Jurassic Park" ride last week were joined by an actress portraying Lucille Ball. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: In L.A., the Hotels Fill Up Again" tracks average annual hotel occupancy rates for the city, since 1986. (Source: Los Angeles Convention and Visitors Bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO'S HOTEL (75%); LOS ANGELES CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; FORECASTS TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (92%); TOURISM (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RIOTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (89%); AMUSEMENTS & GAMING (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); RANKINGS (76%); STATISTICS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (70%); AIRLINES (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



587 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Israeli President Prods Netanyahu to Meet With Arafat

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Aug. 25

 BODY:
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's repeated refusal to meet with the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, came under attack from an unexpected quarter today as President Ezer Weizman announced that he would meet with Mr. Arafat if Mr. Netanyahu did not.
Mr. Weizman confirmed his decision at a hastily called news conference with Mr. Netanyahu after the popular daily, Yediot Ahronot, today disclosed the plan to hold a meeting. 
 Several hours later, the Israeli state radio reported that Mr. Netanyahu would meet with Mr. Arafat, and the state television suggested that there was a possibility he would do so before a planned trip to the United States on Sept. 10. But Mr. Netanyahu refused to give a date in an interview with the television, saying that "the date depends on developments."
Since his election in 1993, Mr. Weizman, a 72-year-old former general, has often stepped out of his ceremonial role and into the tumult of Israeli politics. During the last Labor Government, he often irritated both the late Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and his successor, Shimon Peres, by repeatedly criticizing their peace efforts with the Palestinians and the importance they attributed to Mr. Arafat.
But this was the first time Mr. Weizman has entered the fray under Mr. Netanyahu, and instead of charging that the process was going too fast, this time he said it was approaching a dangerous halt.
The Yediot Ahronot report, which was effectively confirmed at the President's news conference, said that Mr. Arafat had sent an urgent appeal to Mr. Weizman to save the negotiating process. "The time has come to end the fight between the Palestinian people and the Israeli people and to transform it into love," Mr. Arafat wrote, according to the newspaper. "The time has come to stop the spilling of blood."
The note fom Mr. Arafat said that, "I am interested in meeting with you as soon as possible," the newspaper report said.
The newspaper said that Mr. Weizman decided to set up a meeting, believing that a continued freeze could lead to a deterioration of the security situation in Israel. The President then met with Mr. Netanyahu and told him of his intention, adding that he would agree to postpone the meeting if the Prime Minister agreed to "meet himself with Arafat within 10 days."
The President also advised Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai and Foreign Minister David Levy, the more moderate members of Mr. Netanyahu's Cabinet, of his plan. Mr. Weizman said the meeting would be in his private home in the resort city of Caesarea, not in his official residence in Jerusalem.
At his joint appearance with Mr. Weizman, Mr. Netanyahu was obviously irritated by the intervention from an unexpected and politically popular quarter. He reiterated that he was working "according to a planned and pre-set course," and, as he often did during his election campaign, assailed "certain elements in the media."
Adapting a line that worked well in his campaign, Mr. Netanyahu said, "I was not elected to be the Prime Minister of the Palestinians."
Later, in an interview on evening television news, Mr. Netanyahu said he was holding off meeting with Mr. Arafat to insure that the meeting would be substantive. "We have passed over the era of declarations," he said. "I would like a meeting that brings results."
Whatever Mr. Netanyahu's preferences or calculations, the intervention of the President was certain to add a major shove to the already considerable pressures on the Prime Minister to take some action on the two issues that have become something of a test of his intentions: the delayed withdrawal of Israeli troops from most of Hebron, and a meeting with Mr. Arafat.
Mr. Arafat has begun an aggressive campaign to gather support both within and outside Israel, including a highly publicized meeting earlier this week with Mr. Peres. President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt has threatened to cancel a regional economic summit meeting next month if Israel does not proceed with talks with the Palestinians. Jordan has announced plans to go ahead on building a joint dam with Syria that Israel strongly opposes, and Qatar froze the construction of a gas line to Israel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Ezer Weizman of Israel, left, at a news conference yesterday with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at which Mr. Weizman said that he would meet with Yasir Arafat if Mr. Netanyahu would not. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS PRIME MINISTERS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); POLITICS (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); 

PERSON: NETANYAHU, BENJAMIN (PRIME MIN); WEIZMAN, EZER (PRES); ARAFAT, YASIR; SCHMEMANN, SERGE BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (94%); SHIMON PERES (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



588 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Lloyd's to Appeal a Reorganization Ruling

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER 

 BODY:
Executives of Lloyd's of London, where juggling risks has been a tradition, worked through the weekend trying to overcome the latest obstacle to their effort to resolve the organization's financial crisis..
A plan to split off billions of dollars in debt and liabilities from the central organization was thrown into turmoil Friday evening by a Federal judge in Virginia who extended the deadline for American investors to join the plan until the end of October. 
 Next week, Lloyd's, the world's oldest insurance organization, must demonstrate fiscal solvency to British insurance regulators. And, Lloyd's officials said, it may not be able to do so without the participation of the Americans.
Lawyers for Lloyd's are scheduled to go before a panel of three Federal appellate judges on Tuesday morning in Baltimore. They will seek to reverse Friday's ruling by Federal District Judge Robert Payne, which permits American investors to ignore the deadline of Wednesday that Lloyd's had set for taking part in the rescue plan.
Through the weekend, Lloyd's executives in London conferred with their legal team in the United States in shaping the appeal and began working out plans for how to proceed if the appeal failed.
"This," said Nick Doak, a spokesman for Lloyd's in London, "is the most serious crisis we've seen."
The court decision also required Lloyd's to present extensive financial documents about the new company to its American investors -- documents that are required under Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. Lloyd's contended that the new venture was not subject to S.E.C. regulations.
Lloyd's, a group of 170 insurance syndicates with 34,000 investors, reported $12 billion in losses for five years ending in 1992 for huge claims resulting from hurricanes, earthquakes and explosions as well as from vast asbestos and other environmental liabilities. It faces billions more in possible future claims on policies underwritten decades ago.
Lloyd's solution to all the bad news has been to create a new insurance company called Equitas which would be a repository for all Lloyd's claims and debts up to 1992. That was the year in which the organization began, once again, to rake in profits.
With financing of $18 billion, the new company would not sell insurance, hoping to earn income through investments while paying off Lloyd's obligations. Lloyd's actuaries foresee obligations of $15.3 billion, giving Equitas $2.7 billion more than it needs, for the moment.
Part of the financing of Equitas is to come from Lloyd's investors, or "names," as Lloyd's calls them, including $250 million from the 2,700 investors in the United States. In exchange for agreeing to pay what Lloyd's has said was a fraction of the debt the American investors are responsible for, plus up to $150,000 in additional money, the investors would be absolved of all future obligations.
In New York, state insurance officials said they were ready to seize $12 billion of Lloyd's assets in a Citibank trust fund if a collapse became evident. "We're following these developments carefully," said John Calagna, the spokesman for Insurance Superintendent Edward J. Muhl.
In the Virginia case, which was brought by 93 of the 2,700 American investors, the plaintiffs contended that Lloyd's had not provided sufficient data for them to independently calculate their obligations and to calculate how much, if anything, they should contribute to the new company. In his decision on Friday, Judge Payne ordered Lloyd's to provide its investors the same detailed information the S.E.C. requires of securities transactions in the United States.
Richard D. Rosenblatt, the chairman of the American Names Association, which includes about 1,000 of the American investors, and A. Steve Clay, the lead lawyer on the Virginia suit, said that they did not believe that Lloyd's financing of the new insurance company would fall short without the Americans' $250 million.
"They're just fear-mongering," Mr. Rosenblatt said, and trying to pressure the court. He said any shortfall could be covered by a $450 million contingency fund that Lloyd's previously disclosed.
But in London, Mr. Doak said the $450 million had been set aside for bridge loans to the new company, to give it operating capital while awaiting money pledged by investors but not yet delivered. He said it was not to be used indefinitely as start-up capital for the new company.
The chairman of Lloyd's, David Rowland, announced that 75 percent of Lloyd's investors had agreed to the plan for the new company. But Mr. Doak said it was unclear whether that meant that the money for the new company was now assured.
Of the 34,000 investors, he said, only 21,400 were required to contribute to the Equitas fund. The others, Mr. Doak said, were due refunds. Mr. Doak said Lloyd's would not have a calculation of total contributions to Equitas until later in the week.
The focus of the Virginia suit has been a quest for financial information. All of Lloyd's investors, who were required to have a net worth of at least $375,000 each, signed contracts agreeing to resolve any legal disputes in London courts.
Lloyd's had interpreted that to mean that it was bound to provide the same financial data to all investors. Except in cases where fraud is proven, British disclosure requirements are much lower than those in the United States.
Moreover, according to Securities & Exchange Commission regulations, detailed financial reports are required of anyone attempting to raise large amounts of capital.
Mr. Clay said that Lloyd's had consistently provided the American investors with nothing more than generalities and approximate figures when they sought specifics about the new company's finances. Mr. Doak disagreed, saying that Lloyd's had provided two lengthy documents explaining the structure of the new company as well as detailed calculations of the investors' profits and losses on their original investments in Lloyd's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (56%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

COMPANY: LLOYD'S OF LONDON LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (94%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: LLOYD'S OF LONDON

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); VIRGINIA, USA (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE JUDGES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (75%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (75%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (75%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); ASBESTOS (64%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (58%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; PAYNE, ROBERT (JUDGE) NICK DOAK (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



589 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Some Good News Is Seen For Cigarette Stocks
Wall Street analysts expect tobacco stocks to rise in response to a jury's ruling late Friday that the industry was not responsible for the cancer death of an Indianapolis lawyer.
Still, the verdict gives new attention to the wild card of the individual lawsuit in influencing the future value of tobacco shares. The stocks have been dropping since a similar suit in Florida went against the industry on Aug. 9. Market Place. [Page D3.]

Lloyd's Seeks a Reversal
Executives at Lloyd's of London worked through the weekend trying to overcome the latest obstacle to efforts to resolve the organization's financial crisis. A plan to split off billions of dollars in debt and liabilities was thrown into turmoil last week when a Federal judge extended the deadline for American investors to join in the plan. Lloyd's plans to argue for a quick reversal of the ruling. [D2.]
 
Tracking the Political Winds
ABC News used an electronic system to track, second by second, the responses of a group of uncommitted voters to speeches at the Republican National Convention. Though ABC will not use the system at the Democratic convention, which begins tonight, it will track opinions using focus groups. [D5.]
 
The Democrats have converged on Chicago, and so, it seems, have World Wide Web entrepreneurs. Sites provide everything from convention history to practical information about the city. Taking In the Sites. [D4.]
 
Making Machines, And Users, Smile
Macintosh owners may consider themselves to be iconoclasts, but they do rely on icons, those that give the computers a user-friendly face. Susan Kare, who designed the Mac icons, is busier than ever, but with other work. The growth of the World Wide Web has put a new premium on graphics like hers. [D5.]
 
How Best to Use the Web?
The rush to carve the Internet into multimedia fiefs by companies like Netscape and Microsoft is siphoning energy from what should be the goal: to help users and developers exploit the special interactive qualities of the World Wide Web.
Denise Caruso: Digital Commerce. [D5.]
 
Criticism of Programming Deals
As mergers have reshaped communications, companies are flexing their programming muscles by putting shows they produce on cable services they own. Critics at outside companies say they are sometimes being shut out of the bidding. Broadcasting. [D7.]
 
Tourism Rebounds in California
After several years of battering by earthquakes, riots and recession, California is in the midst of a tourist boom. Hotels, amusement parks and attractions are racking up record numbers of visitors. [A7.]
 
Labor Bounces Back
Only two years after a descent into near irrelevance, organized labor is experiencing a resurgence in Democratic politics -- driven by aggressive new leadership and fear of the Republican legislative agenda. [A9.]
 
Special Effects Bulk Up
Movie magicians have taught pigs to talk and roaches to sing. Now they are developing more efficient ways to model the bodies and movements of human beings. One new approach was used in the movie "The Island of Dr. Moreau." [D7.]
 
Minute Maid Account Is Moved
The advertising account for Coca-Cola's Minute Maid line of juices has been shifted from Lowe & Partners/SMS to Leo Burnett. But, except for a slip-up in an unrelated news release, the move would not have been disclosed. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D6.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,722.74 Up 33.29
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.95% Up 0.19
The Dollar -- 108.00 yen Up 0.30

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (71%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (88%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: LLOYD'S OF LONDON (UK) (84%); LLOYD'S OF LONDON (GAMBIA) (71%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (88%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); VERDICTS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); MERGERS (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); LITIGATION (73%); POLITICS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CANCER (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); JUDGES (72%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); FOCUS GROUPS (66%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (64%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (63%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



590 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 3092 words

HEADLINE: UNCERTAIN WELCOME: Immigrants and Welfare -- A special report.;
For New York's Newcomers, Anxiety Over Welfare Law

BYLINE: By CHARISSE JONES 

 BODY:
In New York City, where more than half the residents are immigrants or the children of immigrants, a sense of panic and confusion has rippled from the shores of Brighton Beach to the streets of Washington Heights as the sweeping Federal welfare bill has become law, affecting millions of people, but perhaps none so immediately as the foreign-born.
Ever since President Clinton promised earlier this month to sign the legislation, a vast overhaul of Federal welfare policy that includes severe limits on Government aid to noncitizens, the number of immigrants and refugees seeking naturalization has jumped sharply in New York City, straining the services of immigrant organizations. Rumors have swirled around the new law, sending some immigrants into community centers in tears. Others have spent their days in denial, refusing to believe that changes will take place at all. And advocates say that some desperate elderly immigrants even talk of suicide. 
 "We've been overwhelmed," said Manuel Matos, executive director of the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights, which has seen the number of applicants for naturalization double in the last two weeks. "We don't have the capacity to meet the demand, and it hasn't been like this in the two and a half years I've been here."
Advocacy groups are expanding hours and staffing to meet the rising demand for help in seeking naturalization. Grass-roots organizations are trying to find money to create networks to distribute food and clothing to immigrants whose benefits are cut off. And still others are passing out fliers, planning forums and taping spots for television and radio programs to educate immigrants about the complicated changes.
The legislation, signed into law on Thursday, transfers control of much of the nation's welfare system from the Federal Government to the states and imposes many new restrictions on aid to legal immigrants who are not yet citizens. Among them:
*Legal immigrants will generally no longer be eligible for food stamps or Supplemental Security Income, the Federal cash support for the poor, elderly and disabled.
*States will be allowed, but not required, to deny noncitizens cash welfare, Medicaid, Title XX block grant benefits and other state and local public assistance.
*Immigrants currently receiving S.S.I. or food stamps will technically be allowed to do so for up to one year, but individual cut-off dates will depend on when they undergo annual reviews for benefits. Those now receiving cash welfare, Medicaid or Title XX services cannot be denied those benefits until after Jan. 1.
*Future legal immigrants will be denied most Federal benefits during their first five years in the United States, including Medicaid and public housing.
*Sponsorship documents will become legally enforceable, requiring for the first time that those who sponsor new immigrants pay back any public benefits the immigrants receive. And in assessing new immigrants' applications for most Federal aid, the Government will take into account their sponsors' income. States will be able to do the same.
The law has some exceptions: Legal immigrants who are veterans, in the military, or who have worked at least 10 years without receiving Federal benefits will be entitled to the same assistance as American citizens. And refugees granted asylum will also be exempt from the restrictions on legal immigrants, but only during their first five years in the United States.
President Clinton, who had criticized the legislation's restrictions on immigrants as having nothing to do with welfare reform, has said he will try to change them in the next legislative session, but such change may be difficult because the immigration provisions represent major budget savings.
New Jersey officials have said the state will try to pick up the cost of benefits for the 20,000 immigrant families now receiving Aid to Families With Dependent Children, a bulwark of welfare that the new law abolishes. It is not clear whether New York State, which has long had the most generous and expansive poverty programs in the nation, will do the same. A task force is trying to determine how many legal immigrants are on the state's welfare rolls.
Scott Brenner, a spokesman for the House Ways and Means Committee, said that the new law merely reinforces existing -- but seldom enforced -- immigration policy, since noncitizens had technically never been entitled to public aid. He noted that legal immigrants would still be eligible for emergency medical services, school lunches and other specified Federal benefits.
But immigrant advocates say that the new law punishes lawful permanent residents, most of whom have worked and paid taxes as vigilantly as most citizens. And as harsh as the law will be for future immigrants, they say, it is particularly devastating for those already here.
"It's one thing to come in and know you're on your own no matter what," said Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella organization for some 100 groups working with immigrants and refugees in the New York area. "It's another thing to yank the net out from under people who have been here 10 or 20 years, who often worked the lowest paid and most unsafe jobs, and now find themselves in need of these services."

Fear of the Unknown
Amid Confusion, Rumors Prevail
Roberto Quirico's early life in New York was laced with work and dreams for the future. Mr. Quirico, a 45-year-old immigrant from the Dominican Republic, held various jobs and read about historical figures like George Washington and Franklin D. Roosevelt. Then, in 1992, he suffered a stroke. Heart trouble followed. He could not work and needed frequent medical care. And his hopes began to unravel.
"I need a doctor to be by my side all the time," Mr. Quirico said through an interpreter, wiping tears from his eyes. "If there's no Medicaid, death would be better for me."
But the changes Mr. Quirico fears will not apply to him because he became a citizen in June. Such reassurances, however, do not calm him. "I heard that even the naturalized citizens will be affected," he said. "I came here to improve my life, to prosper. But I think all my dreams are falling apart."
There is widespread confusion among immigrants over what the new law means to them. Newspapers for immigrants, from The Carib News to The China Press, have run articles on the legislation, and grass-roots groups have been trying to clarify facts. But in these close-knit communities, where even the simplest messages can be lost in translation, the primary source of communication is word of mouth. And often rumor prevails.
"Word doesn't tend to filter through that accurately," Mr. Matos said. "So the word on the street is you're not going to be treated in the hospital if you're not a citizen. Word on the street is if you owe a couple dollars on a parking violation, you may be deported. So there's widespread panic."
The rumors are spoken like truths in front of bodegas, on street corners and along the boardwalk in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. Some believe a trip to the emergency room could lead to deportation. Some believe the children of noncitizens will be put out of school.
"Everybody is talking about it," said Maria Lopez, 47, a Dominican immigrant who receives A.F.D.C. and food stamps to care for her three children. "They say there will be no welfare, no Medicaid, no help at all," she said through an interpreter. "We will wind up on the streets. So the future means death."
Some are already trying to take advantage of the fear, according to Alexander Kopelman, spokesman for the New York Association for New Americans, a refugee resettlement organization. "People are falling prey to scams around citizenship," he said. "There are always people out there who are ready to bamboozle people who are scared and don't understand what the law's about."
Immigrant advocates say that most people seeking citizenship are not doing so to get public assistance. And in fact, 12 percent of all households in the city headed by someone foreign-born receive public assistance, compared with 14 percent of households headed by native-born New Yorkers, according the Department of City Planning, citing 1990 census data.
Advocates say that many immigrants feel it is no longer safe to be a noncitizen, in the face of the new welfare law and a separate measure moving through Congress that would crack down on illegal immigration. Some want to protect their rights and benefits, while others are eager to voice their opinions at the ballot box.
The Shorefront Young Men's and Women's Hebrew Association in Brighton Beach normally gets three or four calls a week from people wanting information about citizenship classes. But the week after the President announced he would sign the welfare bill, the center received 90 calls in one day, and there is a waiting list of more than 200 people. "They all try to push their way into class, but each person's situation is as desperate as the next," said Larry Fish, coordinator of group's English language services.
But even as they try to ease fears, many immigrant advocates acknowledge that they themselves are unclear about a law they find vague and complicated. Some say it remains to be seen how many Federal benefits will become off-limits to new immigrants. And they are concerned that some who remain eligible for benefits might lose them prematurely or by mistake.
Many say they hope that the state will step in to offset the loss of Federal aid. They cite the State Constitution, which requires the state to provide for the "aid, care and support of the needy."
But for some immigrants, worry has already turned to despair. "A number of our groups have reported that some of their elderly clients have said that they are contemplating suicide," said Ms. McHugh of the New York Immigrant Coalition. "They simply have no means to support themselves and do not want to die on the streets."

A Helpless Feeling
No One to Lean On, Nowhere to Go
When How Chong Wong, 77, was a young girl in China, her family was the safety net.
"If you can't eat rice, you eat rice soup, but you share and take care of your parents," she said of those days. "But this generation is different. If there are no benefits, there is no food, there is no shelter."
Mrs. Wong's children have families of their own, so she and her 81-year-old husband live by themselves in a subsidized Brooklyn housing complex for the elderly. She is in frail health, with high blood pressure and glaucoma. And her husband's hearing and memory are fading. Sometimes he cannot hear her calling him. Sometimes he buys groceries in Chinatown, then forgets them on a subway car.
She skims the Chinese newspapers to learn of her fate as a legal immigrant. "I don't understand politics that much," she said through a translator. "We hope the Government will let us have our last years with secure income."
Chinese immigrants make up the third largest foreign-born group in New York City, and their naturalization rate, about 56 percent, is relatively high, city officials say. But some who work within the community say that there are many elderly Chinese who have not become citizens because they do not speak English well enough to pass the exam, or lack the desire to become citizens of a nation that once barred their ancestors.
Many also feel they cannot challenge the Government. "They just feel powerless," said Hong Shing Lee, director of the City Hall Senior Center, the city's oldest community center for elderly Chinese. "These people are generally coming from a background where they have to tolerate what the Government wants to do to them."
But Mrs. Wong said she hoped she could appeal to the Government to keep the $800 in S.S.I. and $60 in food stamps they receive. "My husband has become a citizen, but I cannot," said Mrs. Wong, who can barely read and write in her native tongue. "I tried to ask some of my friends to teach me English, but if they tell me last night, I forget this morning."
She has visited China once since immigrating to the United States nine years ago. But she does not believe she could live there again. "If this passes and the Government said we could not get benefits, that means they're trying to get us out." But, Mrs. Wong said, "I don't know where I'd be going."

Suspecting Bias
Feeling Unwanted, Some Long for Home
On a corner in Washington Heights, in upper Manhattan, is a newsstand where people gather. They buy copies of Listin Diario and Ultima Hora, newspapers from home, then stay awhile to muse about life in the Dominican Republic, and life here.
For months, the Dominican presidential race triggered the most passion in their street-corner debates. But now conversations inevitably turn to the welfare law and the discrimination many believe inspired it.
"I think there's some kind of racism behind it," said Israel Peguero, a cabdriver who came here in 1985. "There is a war against the Hispanic community."
Dominicans are the largest immigrant group in New York City, their numbers hovering at roughly half a million. And a strong bond remains between those who have come to the United States and those who stayed behind. So on a recent afternoon, a Dominican newspaper correspondent prepared to write an article on how the welfare bill would affect his former countrymen as some Dominican immigrants spoke of how, feeling unwelcome, they might return to the land of their birth.
"Because the situation is going down in the U.S., Dominicans are looking back to the country they came from like never before," said Effrem Ballenila, who helps prepare Hispanic immigrants for citizenship exams. "They don't focus only on the bill. They feel there's something behind it that's against the Latino community."
Maria Lopez came to New York in 1988. "In the Dominican Republic it was not possible to live a good life," she said. "We were only able to survive."
She found work as a machine operator in a Brooklyn factory. "At the beginning, I was very excited," she said. "I started working. I could deal with everything easier. But as time passed, it got difficult to get a good job. English is very hard for me to learn. The money I was making was not good enough to pay my rent, and to feed my children."
When the factory closed in 1992, she and her three children began to receive public aid. The family lives off $686 in A.F.D.C. payments, $310 in food stamps, and $50 a month in child support from her ex-husband.
Mrs. Lopez is taking citizenship classes, but her continuing struggle to learn English has made naturalization seem a distant possibility. "I don't know what my future's going to be like," said Mrs. Lopez, who said she worried most about her children. "My main fear is going into the streets, and the possibility of having no doctor for them."
So right now, she and many other mothers simply worry and wait. "All of us, when we get together we talk about the problems we're facing," she said. "That we're stuck, and there's no way to go further."

Stunned by Change
Legacy of Generosity Is Highly Regarded
The students sat in a classroom, speaking a new language at an old age, writing in notebooks with weathered hands.
They were Jewish refugees, gathered at the Shorefront Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Association in Brighton Beach to study to become American citizens. In the Soviet Union, where they spent most of their lives they could not speak Yiddish in peace, or worship at a synagogue. But they say the United States gave them the freedom and the financial help to build new lives.
That is why many said they simply did not believe the welfare law would come to pass. Many of the refugees insisted that the new law did not signify hostility to them. "It is the economics," said Manya Drubetskya, 65, a refugee from Ukraine. "The United States maybe does not have enough money."
Nearly three years ago, Emilya Shershevskaya, 72, and her daughter fled Belarus with just enough money to pay for their passage. They were part of the flood of immigrants from the former Soviet Union, most of them Jewish refugees, who came to New York City by the tens of thousands in the 1990's. And she, too, has found it hard to imagine that the stroke of a President's pen could eliminate a legacy of generosity.
"It's impossible to believe that America is going to leave a 72-year-old woman and her disabled daughter without a piece of bread," Mrs. Shershevskaya said through a translator. "I can't believe that could happen."
But if it does, she will have few options. Mrs. Shershevskaya, a widow, lives with her 48-year-old daughter, Rosalya, in a one-bedroom apartment near Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. Her son, Ilya, works as a nursing home attendant, but makes little money and has no medical benefits. And Rosalya could not pass the citizenship test: she has the mental capacity of a 7-year-old child.
"My worry is not the present, because we make do," Mrs. Shershevskaya said. "It's the future, because if anything is to happen, I'm not able to take care of my daughter on my own. I'm not able to work, and my son is working but is not able to support us."
Nearly every dime of the $556 in S.S.I. payments she and her daughter each receive goes toward rent and bills. Food stamps, $138 worth, buy their groceries.
But Mrs. Shershevskaya is not complaining. "I am very grateful to America for sheltering us," she said. "We have safety and we have peace of mind. And I'm always grateful for this because it's not something that America owes us. It's something that the country does out of its goodness."
She has known persecution. She remembers how a bandit broke into a Jewish family's home in Minsk and killed all of its members. She speaks of the night four years ago when she and a friend cowered in her apartment as neighbors banged on the door and yelled terrible things.
"No, I don't feel immigrants are persecuted," she said of the United States and its various new laws. "But there is a sense we're not welcome. It's more a sense I sometimes get when people look at me when I pass them on the street. There's just a feeling of being unwelcome, when people seem like they move away from you because you are from Russia."
It is subtle, but haunting all the same. "In Minsk, I heard it first hand, when people would say 'You Jews should all go to Israel. What are you doing here?'
"Here, the feeling I sometimes get is not dissimilar."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lining up at the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights, where officials say the number of people seeking naturalization has doubled in the last two weeks; An immigrant seeking citizenship being fingerprinted at the Northern Manhattan Coalition's office. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; STATES (US); CITIZENSHIP CITIZENSHIP (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); NATURALIZATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); REFUGEES (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); MEDICAID (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FOOD STAMPS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SUICIDE (68%); PUBLIC HOUSING (61%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); 

PERSON: JONES, CHARISSE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (72%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



591 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: THE DEMOCRATS;
In His Own Words

 BODY:
BILL CLINTON
At a rally yesterday in Huntington, W.Va.: 
 "I want to tell you very briefly what we've done, remind you very briefly of what we wouldn't let be done and talk just a little bit about what we're going to do for the next four years. That's mostly what I want to do in Chicago. But I want you to be the vote and the voice and the steps of our movement, America Forward.
Just think of this: You heard about the 10 million new jobs. That's a lot of people. The 10 million new jobs came because, first, we decided we would cut the deficit in half to get interest rates down so people could invest in America again and afford to borrow money for businesses and homes. That's what we had to do.
This is the first time that the deficit has gone down all four years in a President's term since the 1840's, before the Civil War. . . .
We are moving this country in the right direction. We expanded the college loan program so all these students at Marshall and other places could have access to lower-cost loans with better repayment terms. And we created a national service program so children could earn their way through college by doing community service.
We're moving in the right direction. We're all on that right track."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); STUDENT LOANS (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



592 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: DEMOCRATS: THE DELEGATES;
In Poll, Ardor For President, Faults and All

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 25

 BODY:
The Democratic delegates assembling for their convention here are not satisfied with Bill Clinton's efforts to help poor and middle-class Americans. But they are delighted with him nonetheless.
With only one candidate to choose among all year, most of the delegates say they support Mr. Clinton without reservations, according to a New York Times/CBS News Poll. 
 But a majority still says Mr. Clinton should be doing more to help the poor and middle class, and more than 1 in 4 say he was wrong to sign legislation changing the welfare system last week.
Despite Mr. Clinton's efforts to herd his party toward the ideological center, the poll indicates that the 4,320 delegates generally harbor an unreconstructed liberal faith in government's ability to improve American life.
"He's more moderate than I am," said Donel Wyman, a 69-year-old delegate from Oshkosh, Wis., who wore a "Boot Newt" cap to a party here on Saturday night. "But he'd never get elected if he was as liberal as I am."
In fact, on issue after issue, the delegates here present a reverse image of the generally conservative Republican delegates who convened in San Diego two weeks ago.
The survey shows that the Democratic delegates, who, like their Republican counterparts, represent the extreme ideological leanings of their party, are more liberal than the public at large or even the rest of their fellow Democrats. They want the government to do more to solve national problems and to regulate businesses to guard workers' safety and the environment. They support laws to protect the rights of racial minorities and homosexuals. They want most affirmative action programs left untouched. They favor the nationwide ban on assault weapons. They believe that the children of illegal immigrants should continue to attend public schools. And fully 86 percent say the government should guarantee health insurance for all Americans.
The delegates are the reverse image of the Republicans on another front as well: They say they think their candidate will win -- and win big.
Seventy-nine percent of them consider Mr. Clinton the favorite in their state, and 47 percent said he had a "big edge." Only 49 percent of the Republican delegates said they thought their nominee, Bob Dole, would carry their state, with only 25 percent saying he had a "big edge."
Further, most delegates polled say Mr. Clinton's fortunes will be unaffected by the addition of Jack Kemp to the Republican ticket. Forty-seven percent say Ross Perot's entry into the race will not affect Mr. Clinton in their state, while 46 percent say it will help him.
The poll surveyed 509 Democratic delegates by telephone, fax and mail from Aug. 8 to Aug. 22. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
In securing the affections of his party's delegates, Mr. Clinton had a significant advantage over Mr. Dole: numerous Republican candidates nicked and bruised Mr. Dole in the primaries earlier this year, and even as the Republican delegates met in San Diego, some were still wondering about the contenders who could have been. But Mr. Clinton ran unopposed within his party, which has spent millions of dollars advertising him as the bulwark against Republican extremists in Congress.
"I just like him, period," said Brenda Godsey, a delegate from Junction City, Kan., who cast her first Presidential ballot for John F. Kennedy. "It's the first time that I've been voting for President that I felt like I'm voting for a real person. He comes from a regular family. He has the common touch."
She added: "Everybody talks about his character, but he's still with his first wife. How many of us have had problems?"
Not that the delegates here are without worries about Mr. Clinton. Twenty-six percent of those polled said, using words they chose, that Mr. Clinton's main weakness was a tendency to compromise, pander or waffle on issues. Another 30 percent cited as his chief weakness his character in general, or Whitewater and other Administration scandals.
But 59 percent say they support Mr. Clinton without reservations, and 36 percent say they do so with only minor reservations. As his main strength, 17 percent cited Mr. Clinton's compassion and honesty, while 28 percent cited his record in general as well as on the economy and the deficit.
Most do not hold the President responsible for historic Democratic failures in his term. Only 2 percent of those surveyed place "a lot" of the blame on Mr. Clinton and his policies for the Democrats' losing control of the House and Senate in 1994. Twenty-seven percent place some of the blame on him, while 42 percent say he deserves only a little of it.
Fully 70 percent of those polled say that Mr. Clinton tried hard to pass health care reform but did not have Congressional support. But 21 percent say that while Mr. Clinton tried hard, he made too many mistakes.
Like the Republican delegates, the Democrats are better educated and wealthier than Americans generally. Eight percent reported net worths of more than a million dollars, compared with 18 percent of the Republican delegates. And almost half reported annual incomes greater than $75,000, compared with 11 percent of voters. Only about a quarter of voters are college graduates, but 69 percent of the delegates are.
Perhaps reflecting the prevailing political breeze, the Democratic delegates are far less likely to label themselves liberal than the Republican delegates were to call themselves conservative. About 43 percent say they are liberal, compared with the 70 percent of Republicans who called themselves conservative.
But, like the Republicans, the Democrats generally consider themselves more extreme ideologically than their own candidate, the survey showed. Forty-eight percent of the Democrats called themselves moderate, but 86 percent view Mr. Clinton that way. Forty-three percent call themselves liberals, but only 8 percent called Mr. Clinton a liberal.
Democratic delegates are selected through a bewildering process that varies from state to state, and even within states. Some are chosen in statewide elections, others at state conventions, and others in caucuses.
The Democratic National Committee requires each state to divide its delegation evenly between men and women, and it asks each state to promote racial diversity. "The D.N.C. doesn't require any outcome," said Andy Solomon, a party spokesman. "The D.N.C. simply requires them in advance to think about how they're going to achieve a diverse delegation."
As many women as men are Democratic delegates; about a third of the Republican delegates were women.
Like the Republican delegates, most of the Democrats are middle-aged, but they are otherwise more diverse. Seventy-one percent are white, and 17 percent are black, compared with 91 percent white delegates at the Republican convention and 3 percent black. Thirteen percent consider themselves evangelical or born-again Christians, compared with 31 percent of the Republican delegates.
Thirty-four percent of the delegates belong to labor unions, including the 11 percent who are members of the National Education Association, the teachers union, which Mr. Dole criticized in San Diego.
While 4 in 10 the delegates have attended previous conventions, most are too young to have been here for the 1968 convention, when the Vietnam War caused deep divisions. Only 2 percent of this year's delegates attended that convention.
 
How the Delegates Were Surveyed
The New York Times/CBS News survey of the delegates to the Democratic National Convention was conducted between Aug. 8 and Aug. 22 with 509 randomly selected delegates, mainly by telephone but also by fax or mail if individual delegates preferred. The sample was drawn from a list of the 4,320 delegates to the convention.
After the Republican National Convention ended, 509 Democratic delegates in the survey were recalled for brief follow-up interviews; 377 of them were successfully reached and re-interviewed, answering eight additional questions, by the end of the survey period.
The margin of sampling error for the Democratic delegates is plus or minus four percentage points overall, and plus or minus five points for the somewhat smaller follow-up group.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "Convention Delegates: Who They Are..." shows gender, race, ideology, education, and income of the delegates at the Democratic National Convention.; "...And How They Compare on Issues" shows the delegates' view on government size, social and international issues. (Source: New York Times/CBS News Polls) (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL CBS NEWS DIVISION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PUBLIC OPINION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ELECTION ISSUES POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (74%); GUN CONTROL (70%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); RACE & RACISM (63%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (62%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (51%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



593 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-6
 
ABRUPT END TO TALKS IN CHECHNYA
Saying he could not secure peace when so many people in Moscow "want to torpedo the process," the Russian national security adviser canceled negotiations in Chechnya and returned to the Kremlin. A1
 
PRECARIOUS PASSAGE TO EUROPE
August is the month when thousands of North Africans set off from the Moroccan port of Tangier, braving Spanish border patrols and the currents of the Mediterranean, all to reach Europe's job market. A2
 
PRESSURE TO MEET ARAFAT
President Ezer Weizman of Israel announced that he would meet with the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, if Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu continued to refuse. A3
 
NORMALCY AT SARAJEVO HOSPITAL
Kosevo Hospital, which was at the center of the Serbian siege of Sarajevo, is showing signs of recovery: shells no longer thump down, doctors and nurses get paid, take vacations, eat and even gain weight. A3
 
DEATH SENTENCE IN KOREA
A former President of South Korea was sentenced to death for his role in a 1979 coup and the 1980 massacre of hundreds of pro-democracy demonstrators. His successor got 22 1/2 years on similar charges. A6
 
160 FEARED DEAD IN HIMALAYAS
Indian officials said that as many as 160 Hindu pilgrims and mountain guides had died of cold and hunger in a storm in the Himalayas and that the toll is likely to rise. A6
 
MISSILE PLANT IN PAKISTAN
United States intelligence agencies strongly suspect that China is helping Pakistan build a factory for medium-range missiles, further complicating efforts to control the spread of nuclear weapons. A6
 
Warsaw Journal: The playpen of Poland's avant-garde. A4
 
National A7-13
 
CLINTON TRIP BEGINS
Beginning a four-day train trip to the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, President Clinton slammed the Republican Congress and called on voters to send the message that "we are on the right track in this country and we're going forward." A1
 
POLL EXAMINES DELEGATES
A New York Times/CBS News Poll found that the Democratic delegates assembling in Chicago are not satisfied with Bill Clinton's efforts to help most Americans. But they are still delighted with him. A1
 
Democrats concentrated their firepower on Newt Gingrich. A9
 
Unions are experiencing a resurgence in Democratic politics. A9
 
The events of the 1968 convention are remembered. A11
 
Harold Ickes has gone from insurgent to Establishment. A10
 
The Democrats began with a relatively proletariat party. A10
 
Mario Cuomo said he was unsure of his convention role. A10
 
DEBATE ON FRESH KILLING
In San Francisco, merchants at about a dozen Chinese stores and the customs of many centuries have run headlong into the animal-rights movement. A1
 
CALIFORNIA TOURISM REBOUNDS
After a battering by earthquakes, riots and recession, California is in the midst of a tourist boom. A7
 
JUDGES CURB PUBLICITY
The recent order prohibiting participants in O. J. Simpson's civil trial from discussing the case with the news media is just the latest in a series of actions by judges trying to limit pretrial publicity. A7
 
DOLE'S DRUG STRATEGY
Speaking near Chicago, Bob Dole vowed to devote the nation's military capability to halting the influx of drugs. A13
 
Park Ridge Journal: Hillary Rodham is from G.O.P. country. A13
 
Metro Report B1-6
 
UNCERTAIN WELCOME
 In New York City, where more than half the residents are immigrants or the children of immigrants, panic and confusion have rippled from the shores of Brighton Beach to the streets of Washington Heights as the sweeping Federal welfare bill has become law. A1
 
DRUG STRATEGY PAYING OFF
 An ambitious Police Department plan to crack down on drug sales by targeting the entire network that supplies the drugs -- from street dealer on up -- is bearing its first fruits in the select neighborhoods where it has been tried out. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Critic's Notebook C11
Previewing the New York Film Festival. C11
Theater: "Timon of Athens." C11
Music: Ike Turner Revue. C16
Books: "The Open Sore of a Continent." C16
Television: "Seventh Heaven." C14
"Sparks." C14
"Glass Jungle." C14
 
Sports C1-10
 
WOODS FIGHTS BACK TO WIN
Tiger Woods came back from five holes down to win an unprecedented third straight United States Amateur golf championship. A1
 
Baseball: A's beat Yanks. C1
Dodgers edge Mets. C8
Columns: Rhoden on Keyshawn Johnson C2
Berkow on Mantle Day C7
Football: Penn State downs U.S.C. C1
Tennis: U.S. Open opens under a cloud. C5
 
Obituaries B9
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A14-15
 
Editorials
 
Prostituted children.
Cattaraugus miracle -- maybe.
Steven Weisman: Chicago ghosts.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: The plague years.
William Safire: Chicago -- a long way from '68.
Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr.: Dole's supply-side delusion.
Martina Navratilova: Game, set, set, set, match.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Bridge C14
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); MOROCCO (91%); ISRAEL (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); POLAND (79%); INDIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); HIMALAYAS (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); MOROCCO (91%); ISRAEL (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); POLAND (79%); INDIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); HIMALAYAS (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); MOUNTAINS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); COUPS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); POLITICS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); RIOTS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (67%); SENTENCING (67%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (67%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (66%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); EMPLOYMENT (56%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (51%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



594 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2275 words

HEADLINE: THE DEMOCRATS: THE LAST TIME IN CHICAGO;
28-Year-Old Snapshots Are Still Vivid, and Still Violent

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 25

 BODY:
"There was a very important melee over by that tree," recalled John Schultz, pointing through the sylvan calm of Lincoln Park.
"I was standing right here," Mr. Schultz remembered, as if 28 years ago was yesterday, positioning himself by a bush. "The park was absolutely jammed, thousands of people. 
 "The cops were beating a kid there, and the first camera was broken right beside me. A newspaper photographer was taking the picture, and a nightstick came down, and he said, 'They got my lens,' astonished. They had a kid across a car here; there were beatings, clubbings, screaming everywhere."
Back in the present, sailboats sparkled across Lake Michigan, Rollerbladers glided past and a rock band practiced an old song nearby, but for a moment Lincoln Park seemed to reverberate with the demonstrations that accompanied the 1968 Democratic convention.
The little brick building where the police gathered was in the same place, and so were the groves and stretches of grass where bongo drums throbbed and the hippies, Yippies, radicals and anti-war demonstrators argued among themselves until the police clubs and tear gas united them.
The police officers formed a skirmish line at the bottom of that little hill over there one night, menacing but incongruous in their baby-blue shirts and helmets, bulging bellies and snouted gas masks, the kind of vivid snapshot people who were on the streets here in 1968 still carry with them. Behind the officers, like a tank supporting infantry, was a city garbage truck, a street sweeper.
The poet Allen Ginsberg was sitting cross-legged, humming a mantra of "Ohm, ohhhmm," which he insisted would soothe away violence. (Untrue, it turned out.) Some liberal clergymen had erected a huge cross with a similar intent. Marijuana smoke wafted by. There were protesters in the trees.
As the police advanced, the street sweeper, whose water tanks had been converted to hold tear gas, began to spew gray clouds from underneath. The tear gas rolled forward, rising around the legs of the police, now running through the bushes and trees like some surreal production of Birnam Wood coming to Dunsinane in "Macbeth." Then everything went dark and choking with the gas, and people were stumbling, screaming and being clubbed down.
"There was just bedlam everywhere," Mr. Schultz went on, interrupting a visitor's reverie the other day as he rehearsed the three-hour bus tour he is offering for out-of-town journalists attending this week's return of the Democrats.
"People were being chased. There was a television cameraman with his camera broken in two pieces, holding it up."
 
Persistent Ghosts, Firmly Held Beliefs
The author of "No One Was Killed," a firsthand account of the chaos and carnage, Mr. Schultz is part of a cottage industry coming to the fore this week, remembering, commemorating or, in the case of Mayor Richard M. Daley, whose father, Mayor Richard J. Daley, became a glowering symbol of repression, trying to put to rest the ghosts of 1968.
The year 1968, historians have written, was extraordinary, with the United States riven by the Vietnam War and racial conflict. It is difficult now for anyone who was not here then to appreciate the passion that spilled into the Chicago streets that summer.
The Democrats convened that year shaken and divided. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Senator Robert F. Kennedy had both been assassinated. Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey was headed for the party's nomination, but the anti-war candidacy of Eugene McCarthy made the Democrats' convention a focal point for the tensions of the day.
"It's like the Civil War, 1968, everybody's position is unchanging," said Don Rose, then a spokesman for anti-war demonstrators, who today frequently participates in panel discussions with his old adversaries.
Marilyn Katz, then one of the heads of the radical Students for a Democratic Society's security team for demonstrations, declared with her customary gusto, "It was a great year, '68,"
While today's Chicago police have been shown television documentaries of 1968 as a cautionary lesson in preparation for convention week, many of the officers on the street then hold on to their own memories.
"The police department didn't start any riot; it was the other side," said John DiMaggio, a much-decorated retired sergeant. "Not only the hippies and Yippies, but other unruly groups that were planning to destroy our city.
"We had inside information. We had intelligence officers who infiltrated their meetings, who looked like bums and dressed like bums; they had the beards and the beads. "No unnecessary force was used. It was an insurrection, a planned assault on our city. We stopped our city from being destroyed."
Hank DeZutter, then a young reporter for The Chicago Daily News, remembered, "It was total war."
Chicago today is a vastly different city than it was then, and not only because of social and economic changes that have studded downtown with glistening new skyscrapers, gentrified decrepit industrial neighborhoods and turned a shot-and-a-beer town into the biggest sipper of Starbucks coffee outside Seattle.
As the once omnipotent Daley machine declined, Mr. Rose became one of the city's leading political operatives, helping elect the first black Mayor, Harold Washington, in 1983, a pivotal event in the city's history. And, contrary to the myth of burned-out 60's radicals, many of those who once demonstrated here are still working for change. Some find themselves in alliance with the new Mayor Daley.
Ms. Katz now has a public relations agency with major work from the city on an ambitious community policing program and the renewal of West Side areas that were burned in 1968 in the rioting after the King assassination. Her recollections of the cataclysmic 60's were frequently interrupted by business calls.
"Fiber optics; we're talking in terms of potential for a global communications infrastructure," she barked into the phone, discussing revisions on a pamphlet to attract business. "All right, take out 'rat-infested,' make it 'once-abandoned.' Nothing goes out without the city seal and Mayor's signature."
Mayor Daley's agenda for public schools draws on two other consultants: Mike Klonsky, who in 1968 was national chairman of the S.D.S. and a demonstration organizer here, and a University of Illinois professor named Bill Ayers.
In an earlier life, Mr. Ayers headed the violent Weather Underground faction of the S.D.S., whose members saw themselves as revolutionary street fighters. His wife, Bernardine Dohrn, an S.D.S. leader once among the Federal Bureau of Investigation's most wanted, is now a lawyer with a Northwestern University legal aid project for troubled youths.
A notice went out from the couple by E-mail a few days ago announcing the start, while the convention is here, of Democrats Online, a computer network.
"The progressive wing of the Democratic Party hasn't gone underground," the notice said. "We're on the Internet."
 The city's political monolith began to crumble, Mr. Rose and others recalled, in the aftermath of the 1969 killing of the Black Panther leader Fred Hampton, shot in his bed by police raiders from the Cook County District Attorney's squad. The solid black vote that had been a mainstay of the Democratic machine fragmented. Meanwhile, a series of court suits dismantled the patronage system that provided a payroller army of election workers, Mr. Rose said, so that by the time the younger Mr. Daley was elected Mayor in 1989, "he's got a changed city; to a large extent it's been reformed."
Whatever the changes, the wild days and nights of the '68 convention still have resonance here.
At first Chicago radicals, worried over police beatings during the West Side riots and an April peace march, tried to discourage the demonstrations, several people remembered. Stay away, warned The Seed, the local Yippie paper; Chicago will be "A Festival of Blood."
"But in the context of '68, the assassinations, the war, the uprisings, the counterculture, you just had to be there if you believed in any strain of the movement," said Abe Peck, then the editor of The Seed and now a journalism professor at Northwestern University.
The absurdist Yippies threatened to put LSD in the drinking water and seduce the delegates, their wives and daughters -- fanciful menaces that were taken gravely seriously by the authorities. Demonstration leaders haggled, unsuccessfully, for permits to march and sleep in Lincoln Park. The Yippies produced their Presidential candidate, a large pig. Then, on Sunday night, the eve of the convention, things got serious.
"Sunday set the tone," said Mike James, then an S.D.S organizer, recalling how a wedge of police officers charged into the crowd at a concert by the MC5, a rock group whose repertoire included "Motor City is Burning" honoring the Detroit riots of 1967. "The police were amok."
The tension increased as darkness fell and the park curfew hour of 11 o'clock drew near. Police officers with bullhorns ordered the park cleared. Wild debates over what to do raged among the protesters, with S.D.S. organizers shouting that resistance at this point was "suicide, man" and being swept aside by revolts with the revolution. The demonstration, as it would on succeeding days, took on a life of its own.
People charged about, some waving Vietcong flags. The police waded in, clubs swinging. Press photographers became particular targets from that night on; some 65 journalists were injured or arrested or had their equipment smashed. Local editors, Mr. Schultz recalled, "couldn't believe it; they thought there was some kind of mass hysteria among their reporters."
The action spilled into the streets of nearby Old Town. Sometimes rocks were thrown; more often the police clubbed down anyone they could get their hands on. Local residents and passers-by were beaten, and as the days and nights went on, the crowds and the outrage grew, drawing in particularly the now-embittered young supporters of Eugene McCarthy's peace candidacy. The pattern was set.
"It was the same dance every night," Mr. Peck said.
 
A Wednesday Like No Other
Wednesday, Aug. 28, the night Hubert Humphrey got the nomination, was the most spectacular. In front of the Conrad Hilton Hotel, convention headquarters, the police beat hundreds of people under the unblinking lenses of television cameras mounted on platforms. "The whole world is watching," the crowd chanted.
Ms. Katz recalled, "We were standing around in the hot sun in Grant Park, listening to dull speeches, when all of a sudden this huge wedge of cops just charged us."
The rampage was captured in a true piece of cinema verite by the film maker Haskell Wexler and used in his movie of the period, "Medium Cool."
As the afternoon wore on, some demonstrators were forced out toward Michigan Avenue, the main boulevard running past the Hilton. Others were blocked by arriving National Guardsmen with fixed bayonets. As demonstration leaders again negotiated in vain for a march permit, many protesters drifted north in the Grant Park, seeking a way out.
Suddenly, they came upon the mule train bearing Dr. King's successor, the Rev. Ralph D. Abernathy, which had a permit to go to the convention hall. Joyously they poured in behind the mule train, and Michigan Avenue was packed with protesters, chants of "peace now" and "dump the Hump" echoing.
"It was after 7 o'clock, still light but beginning to fade," Mr. DeZutter, the reporter, remembered, when he watched the police reinforcements fill Balbo Drive on the hotel's north side.
 
A Culture Clash Burned Into Memory
Moments after the police line hit the intersection, there was nothing on that stretch of Michigan but shoes and purses. Officers were lunging into the crowd and chasing demonstrators, conventioneers, onlookers, anyone. "Wahoo, wahoo," shouted an officer charging into the crowd on a three-wheeled motorcycle.
The Hilton's bar, curiously named the Haymarket Lounge, invoking an 1886 riot that pitted police against anarchists, was packed with political columnists and other assorted pundits. Suddenly one of its walls seemed to collapse as people were pushed through its covered-over windows, hurtling backward into the bar, with club-waving police officers leaping in after them.
"The dripping of blood was ubiquitous and impressive," recalled Dr. Quentin Young, who directed a corps of volunteer doctors and medical workers who patched up more than 1,000 injured people.
At 73, Dr. Young is planning to protest at this year's convention over the Democrats' health care policies.
Mr. James, one of the city's most unreconstructed radicals, said: "The police, they really were a nasty breed back then. I could say some nicer things about the police today."
Mr. James cherishes an old photograph of himself trying to tip a paddy wagon that drove into the crowd that Wednesday night, although he added that the effort failed.
Mr. James has for 20 years been running the Heartland Cafe, a combination vegetarian restaurant, bar, general store and theater that is a virtual shrine to 60's values. Posters for Mayor Washington occupy a place of honor, one next to a portrait of Chairman Mao.
"Hey, I'm just getting going; I figure long range," the 54-year-old Mr. James said. "The things that brought us together, except for the Vietnam War, are still here."
He shook his head and grinned. "I'm not into heal-ins," he said. "But, yeah, they should remember '68; it's part of this city's history. It's really right up there with the Haymarket."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As Democrats clashed politically inside a Chicago convention hall in August 1968, anti-war demonstrators and the police clashed physically outside. (Bettmann Archives); Marilyn Katz -- "It was a great year, '68." (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); Mike James -- "The Police were amok." (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO (ILL); UNITED STATES (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1968; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US) POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); WRITERS (89%); RIOTS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (76%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); ELECTIONS (69%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (69%); POP & ROCK (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%); CANNABIS (67%); 

PERSON: KIFNER, JOHN JOHN SCHULTZ (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



595 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: DEMOCRATS: THE DEMOCRAT;
Clinton, Setting Out for Chicago, Denounces G.O.P.

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: ASHLAND, Ky., Aug. 25

 BODY:
An exuberant President Clinton, beginning a four-day train trip to the Democratic National Convention, slammed the Republican Congress today and called on voters to re-elect him and send the message that "we are on the right track in this country and we're going forward."
As he began the general-election campaign, Mr. Clinton abruptly changed tone after months of avoiding overt partisanship. At stop after stop, he called for the election of a Democratic-controlled Congress and offered a blistering assessment of the budget the Republicans had tried to pass last year, before being stymied by his vetoes. 
 The President was in high spirits most of the afternoon, but in an interview with a CNN reporter broadcast tonight, he bristled when the reporter brought up the Whitewater controversies involving the President and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton. The President said he was particularly upset that far-reaching accusations had caused members of his Administration to owe overwhelming legal bills. He said his aides had had their "lives wrecked by pure, naked, raw politics." [Page A13.]
At every stop, Mr. Clinton stood flanked by Democratic candidates for local offices and Congress and made an impassioned pitch for their election. "I want you to send them up there," he told the rapt audience here at his second stop. "We need some help."
In Chicago, Democrats preparing for the convention, including Vice President Al Gore, amplified this theme and lambasted Speaker Newt Gingrich and his Republican majority in Congress as extremist and out of touch with voters. [Page A9.]
On a gloriously sunny day in Huntington, W.Va., where nearly 10,000 people gathered outside the old C & O railroad station to see him off, Mr. Clinton urged his listeners to remember "the pivotal moment of 1995."
That was the moment, he said, when the Republicans told Democrats, "if you don't take our budget, if you don't walk away from the commitment of health care to the elderly in nursing homes," and "if you don't walk away from the commitment to invest in the environment and the education of our children and our future, we're going to shut the Government down."
"We said, 'Have at it,' " Mr. Clinton said. "We don't stand for blackmail. We stand for America."
After the rally in West Virginia, Mr. Clinton boarded a 3-locomotive, 13-car train. Two of the cars are old-fashioned Pullmans, including one used by Harry S. Truman, whose 1948 train tour brought him to a come-from-behind campaign victory. Mrs. Clinton attended today's rally, then flew on to the convention in her hometown, but the Clintons' daughter, Chelsea, stayed on the train.
Mr. Clinton's five-state train trip, covering more than 500 miles, is intended to build excitement as he makes his way to the Democratic National Convention, which starts on Monday. Along the route, the President is set to present a new initiative on each of the first three days of the convention to showcase his incumbency and generate news coverage.
Using two helicopters to help carry equipment for sending satellite pictures, the Democrats plan to beam live footage of the President's progress to the Chicago convention hall, where Democrats will be putting on an elaborate show emphasizing the themes of community, opportunity and responsibility. They hope it will give Mr. Clinton the same kind of lift in the polls that Bob Dole got from his own convention.
Today, Mr. Clinton passed from the Democratic stronghold of West Virginia into Kentucky, where he was welcomed by local Democrats despite his tough stand against tobacco, a local cash crop. "Mr. President, many of us disagree with you on tobacco," Gov. Paul Patton said, "but we love you." Mr. Clinton's train will wend its way through the industrial battlegrounds of Ohio and Michigan before arriving in Michigan City, Ind., where the President will get into a helicopter to fly into Chicago on Wednesday night.
All along the train's route, from the backyards of small frame homes and from overpass bridges, small crowds waved the President on and took snapshots. Emblazoned across the cars were "21st Century Express" and "On the Right Track for the 21st Century," slogans that contrasted oddly with the nostalgic return to campaigning by train. As the train passed, some onlookers hoisted Clinton-Gore signs and homemade placards like one proclaiming, "History Begins Here."
Mr. Clinton's aides said the train trip would expand the convention beyond Chicago and let Mr. Clinton travel though small towns that rarely become campaign stops in a time of air travel and media markets. "I come here to say to you, I'm on my way to Chicago and I'm going on a train," Mr. Clinton said in Huntington, "because I want to see the people like you that I've been working for, and fighting for, for four years."
He also said, "I want America to know we're on the right track in this country and we're going forward. We're not turning back."
More overtly than usual, health care was back on Mr. Clinton's agenda as he vowed to move beyond the incremental health-care measure he signed this week, a bill he said would "make it possible for people who are unemployed to keep their health insurance for at least six months." He singled out Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia and Mrs. Clinton for fighting "for health care before it was popular."
Mr. Rockefeller, who is from one of the nation's wealthiest families, ridiculed the Republicans tax-cut proposals, pointing to the original House budget plan of 1995. "Remember when they wanted to cut $270 billion out of Medicare so they could give $245 billion in tax cuts to the rich?" he asked. He went on, deadpan, to say, "I don't need it."
Mr. Clinton compared Mr. Dole's campaign centerpiece -- a call for a sweeping $548 billion tax cut -- with a "pretty song" and tied it to the House Republicans' Contract With America. "Do you remember their contract?" he asked. "They never did say word one about it in San Diego, did they?
"Do you remember it sounded so pretty in 1994? And then the consequences came in '95 and '96.
"But if you give them the White House and the Congress, there won't be anybody to say no."
Borrowing a touch from President Ronald Reagan, the Democrats had local heroes introduce Mr. Clinton. In Huntington, it was Marilyn Milne, a single mother who overcame divorce and lack of child care to start a business. In Ashland, the hero was Kevin Gunderson, a paralyzed police officer shot in the line of duty, who called Mr. Clinton "the most pro-law-enforcement President."
Mr. Clinton referred to his opponent only to defend his wife against Mr. Dole's scathing ridicule at the Republican convention of her book, "It Takes a Village." "I think it does take a village," he said, "to raise a child, strengthen a family, build a community and build a country."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton and his family greeted supporters in Huntington, W.Va., yesterday at the start of his trip. (Reuters) (pg. A1)
 
Chart/Map: "THE SCHEDULE: The Clinton-Gore Local to Chicago" shows the itinerary of the President and Vice President as they head by train toward Chicago to join the National Convention. (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; VETOES (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); RAILROADS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TRAINS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (68%); CHILDREN (66%); NURSING HOMES (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (63%); AGING (61%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (61%); EXTORTION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MITCHELL, ALISON BILL CLINTON (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



596 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Dole Promises Wider Role For Military In Drug War

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: PALOS PARK, Ill., Aug. 25

 BODY:
Declaring that President Clinton had "surrendered" in the war on drugs, Bob Dole vowed today to broaden the use of the nation's military against the influx of drugs and said he would prepare the National Guard to "move in" to help the fight.
"We will make drug interdiction a priority for our intelligence services, beefing up not just technical operations but also human intelligence operations," Mr. Dole, the Republican Presidential nominee, said here in the shadow of the Democratic convention in Chicago. "We will expand our use of military technology, including reconnaissance and satellites and area surveillance and listening posts to track drug movements toward our borders." 
 It was not clear how sweeping the use of the military would be. Mr. Dole said that in his first 45 days in office, he would order military officials to come up with a specific plan.
Mr. Dole also acknowledged that using military forces for law-enforcement purposes was an idea to be approached warily. He said the threat of drugs, like the threat of terrorism from abroad, was an area where the military had a proper role.
Mr. Dole promised: "We will renew our commitment to our National Guard drug-interdiction efforts. Working with the governors, we will create designated National Guard units with appropriate training and equipment to provide a rapid-response capability." He added, "If we need the National Guard to move in, they'll have the training."
Mr. Dole said that under the Clinton Administration, Defense Department spending on drug interdiction had fallen sharply, with planes and ships spending less time hunting for suspected drug smugglers.
"The lack of Department of Defense resources committed to interdiction efforts has translated directly to the arrival of drugs on city streets all across America," he said.
Although the United States spends hundreds of millions of dollars each year on ships, planes, radar stations and even tethered surveillance balloons to track incoming drug shipments, the effort proved largely ineffective after it was begun in the Bush Administration and was criticized by Congressional auditors.
In 1993, the Pentagon and the White House National Security Council decided to shift some money away from the interception program and to place more emphasis on helping Latin American countries attack drug trafficking organizations.
Mr. Dole spoke in this suburb 17 miles southwest of Chicago, where the Democrats are to renominate Mr. Clinton at their convention.
Nelson Warfield, Mr. Dole's press secretary, said Mr. Dole had encroached upon the Democratic turf -- apparently a first in modern times for a nominee during another party's official anointment of its leader -- because he wanted to make a "bold and unprecedented" statement.
Mr. Dole, in shirt sleeves, told a crowd of about 1,500 people standing under the hot sun in the vast green expanse of the John Duffy Forest Park Reserve, "I heard there was a party happening somewhere in the area."
He said that while the Democrats would no doubt play their party's anthem, "Happy Days Are Here Again," his anthem would be "The Party's Over," and that he would dedicate it to drug dealers.
"As President of the United States, within my first 45 days at the White House, I will work with my Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff to seek further ways to use our military power -- particularly technical capabilities -- to fight the war on drugs," he said.
"We will come up with a plan that focuses the appropriate military means to augment our Federal and state drug-enforcement agencies," he added.
The Dole campaign has long believed that Mr. Clinton is vulnerable on the drug issue, which Mr. Dole has tried to make his own for several weeks now, devoting one of his weekly radio messages to it and, in many campaign speeches, repeating the statistics that show an increase in drug use and what he calls a flagging effort by the Clinton Administration to respond to it.
Clinton campaign literature, distributed at the park today by the Democrats, says Republicans cut $767 million from the drug-control budget of 1996.
Apart from the anti-drug message, Mr. Dole took on skeptics who have said his economic plan cannot both balance the budget and cut taxes.
Sounding like a motivational speaker. Mr. Dole said: "Where there's a will, there's a way. Jack Kemp and I have will and we know the way. So when the other side says, 'It can't be done,' I say, 'Just watch us!"
In an interview with The Chicago Tribune, Mr. Dole said balancing the budget was his priority and cutting taxes was "No. 2," a ranking that his critics say more accurately reflects his long-time feelings as a deficit hawk. Asked about this today, he said, "They are both No. 1."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Dole delivered an anti-drug message Sunday at a rally in Palos Park, Ill., near Chicago. Gov. Jim Edgar of Illinois stood at left. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (69%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (91%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GUARD (US) FOREST PARK (50%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GUARD (US) CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (69%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE DRUG POLICY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DRUG INTERDICTION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TERRORISM (67%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



597 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 26, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: The New York Film Festival's French Accent

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES 

 BODY:
The New York Film Festival, now in its 34th year, will lead off on Sept. 27 with Mike Leigh's "Secrets and Lies," winner of the top prize at the Cannes Film Festival in May, and will close 16 days later with the world premiere of "The People vs. Larry Flynt," Milos Forman's take on the very American story of a skin-magazine publisher who carries a First Amendment fight all the way to the Supreme Court.
The festival, which is organized by the Film Society of Lincoln Center, will present 29 films and one short feature. "Les Voleurs," from Andre Techine, an erotic thriller that stars Catherine Deneuve and Daniel Auteuil, has been designated the festival's centerpiece film. 
 The festival includes two wild-card entries, billed as "special events," which will be shown at the Walter Reade Theater, rather than at Alice Tully Hall, where the rest of the films in the festival will be seen.
"The Rolling Stones Rock-and-Roll Circus," a television special that was filmed in 1968 but then sat in storage, will be seen at the festival for the first time. The film, which features performances by the Rolling Stones, the Who and a hastily organized supergroup that includes John Lennon and Eric Clapton, will be given seven screenings on Oct. 12 and 13.
The second special-event film is a newly restored 70-millimeter version of Alfred Hitchcock's "Vertigo." It has been painstakingly restored over the last two years by James C. Katz and Robert A. Harris, who carried out similar rescue operations on "Spartacus," "Lawrence of Arabia" and "My Fair Lady."
Although the prestige of the New York Film Festival gives its selection committee a certain power in attracting films, it is hostage to outside forces. Top film makers may simply not be ready to show their work. Political events and economic turbulence may lead to cutbacks in film production, as happened in Eastern Europe in 1989. This year the stars aligned properly, and the committee had rich pickings.
"We got a strong start in Cannes and a lot of good material to choose from," said Wendy Keys, the executive producer for programming at the film society and a member of the festival's selection committee. "We ended up turning away material that we would have been very proud to show, but we are limited by our format. We treat a limited number of films like little jewels and try to get them the maximum press exposure and possibility for distribution."
The festival includes several world premieres, including Richard Linklater's "Suburbia," a film about the denizens of a convenience-store parking lot, with a script that Eric Bogosian adapted from his stage drama of the same name.
As a sidebar to the festival, the Walter Reade Theater will show "Cinema as Weapon: Ritwik Ghatak's Unknown Masterworks," a program of eight films devoted to a Bengali contemporary of Satyajit Ray.
American and French films account for more than half the offerings at this year's festival, which for the first time has a corporate sponsor, Grand Marnier. The French presence is so strong, with 11 productions and co-productions, that it recalls the festivals of yore under Richard Roud, when Francophilia ran rampant. The French lineup includes old hands like Mr. Techine, a festival standby whose "Wild Reeds" played last year; Maurice Pialat, Raul Ruiz and younger film makers like Arnaud Desplechin and Jacques Audiard.
"What's particularly impressive is the French participation in non-French films," said Richard Pena, the chairman of this year's selection committee and the program director of the Film Society of Lincoln Center. He pointed to Emir Kusturica's "Underground," which was completely French financed; Lars Von Trier's "Breaking the Waves," a Danish-French-Swedish co-production, and Merzak Allouache's "Salut Cousin!," a French-Algerian co-production. "France has become the real film power in Europe, not just in esthetic terms but financially as well," Mr. Pena said.
Along with economic power has come a certain confidence among French film makers. "My sense is that at the end of the 1980's, when the expansion of French television cut into the film audience and American competition loomed large, there were a couple of lean years," Mr. Pena said. "Now a new generation has grown up in a different reality, so people like Desplechin and Audiard are past all that; they're not so scared of TV. In a sense, Desplechin's 'How I Got Into an Argument' uses the language of television in a way that the previous generation of French film makers never would have."
Olivier Assayas, a former critic for the journal Cahiers du Cinema, has made only six films, but the film society is treating him like an old master. His film "Cold Water" was shown at the 1994 festival, and the society gave him a retrospective in April.
His film "Irma Vep" tells the story of a film crew attempting to remake a silent-film serial. Among its stars is the Hong Kong star Maggie Cheung. "It's a comedy about the travails of film making, but it also includes some wry observations about contemporary cinema, the place of American and French films and even something about Asian cinema," Mr. Pena said.
Mr. Forman's film, which stars Woody Harrelson as Mr. Flynt and the rock star Courtney Love as his wife, will be his fourth appearance in the New York Film Festival but his first since 1968, when "The Fireman's Ball" was the closing-night film.
The subject of the new Forman film, Mr. Pena said, is not as bizarre at it might seem. "It's a good match to his sensibility, if you think of 'Fireman's Ball' or 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest,' " he said. "The screenwriters are the same ones who wrote 'Ed Wood,' and in a way this is also an only-in-America story."
In recent years, the festival has been strong on films from Iran, Taiwan and China, and this year continues that trend. Iran is represented by Mohsen Makhmalbaf's "Gabbeh," Taiwan by Hou Hsiao-hsien's "Goodbye South, Goodbye" and Edward Yang's "Mahjong," and China by Chen Kaige's "Temptress Moon," which stars Gong Li.
Ordinarily, the festival does not show films that have been shown in New York. This year it broke its rule for Mr. Kusturica's "Underground." The film, which the selection committee had hoped to include in last year's festival, was not completed in time. It was given one screening at the Walter Reade last February.
"We did that as a kind of sneak preview, thinking that it would go into U.S. distribution and everything would be fine," Mr. Pena said. "Unfortunately that didn't happen. We think it's a great film and we decided to break our own rule."
Mr. Linklater's film, his first since the highly praised "Slackers," will be watched with interest, but two other American films on the schedule, both of them dark and disturbing, have generated advance buzz. In "Illtown," Nick Gomez returns to the world of teens, violence and drugs that he navigated in "Laws of Gravity" and "New Jersey Drive," but in a glossy, almost surreal visual style.
"Reckoning," written and directed by Billy Bob Thornton, tells the story of a murderer, played by Mr. Thornton, who returns to his hometown after being released from an institution for the criminally insane. Mr. Thornton appeared as the same character in "Some Folks Call It a Sling Blade," a short film that was part of the 1994 New Directors/New Films series.
In addition to Mr. Pena and Ms. Keys, the members of this year's election committee were David Ansen, a senior writer for Newsweek; Jonathan Rosenbaum, a film critic for The Chicago Reader, and Robert Sklar, a film critic, historian and professor of cinema at New York University.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 28, 1996, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the New York Film Festival referred incompletely to the career of the director Richard Linklater. After his first film, "Slacker," Mr. Linklater made "Dazed and Confused" and "Before Sunrise." "Suburbia," in this year's festival, is his fourth feature, not his second. The article also misstated the year that Andre Techine's film "Wild Reeds" was shown at the festival. It was 1994, not last year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Phyllis Logan and Timothy Spall in the next New York Film Festival's "Secrets and Lies." (October Films) (pg. C11); Daniel Auteuil and Catherine Deneuve in Andre Techine's "Voleurs." ("Les Voleurs") (pg. C12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: VOLEURS, LES (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER WALTER READE THEATER (56%); LINCOLN CENTER (56%); NEW YORK (73%); FILM SOCIETY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER NEW YORK (73%); FILM SOCIETY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; NEW YORK FILM FESTIVAL; MOTION PICTURES FESTIVALS (93%); FILM (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); POP & ROCK (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (56%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); CONVENIENCE STORES (50%); 

PERSON: GRIMES, WILLIAM; TECHINE, ANDRE DANIEL AUTEUIL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996



598 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: The Bottom Line in Basketball: The Fan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Although from an economic viewpoint it is easy to justify the $120 million deal that the Los Angeles Lakers recently made with Shaquille O'Neal ("The Real Deal on O'Neal," Business Day, Aug. 23), corporate executives and agents ought to be paying more attention to one crucial element: the basketball fans. 
 Ticket prices for the cheapest seats at a Laker game will rise from $9.50 last season to $21 because of Mr. O'Neal's arrival and other factors.
The average ticket price for a single game will be $38.50. Attending a sporting event like a Laker game, long an activity for America's middle-class and blue-collar families, will no longer be feasible as a result of such astronomical prices. As more and more fans become unable to make it to the arena and begin to realize that their team revolves exclusively around an economic bottom line, support for a team may wane.
The idea that athletes of the 90's are no longer athletes but rather "entertainment products" might make economic sense to the executives and agents who are looking only at the bottom line, but to the fans who remember the glory days when athletes competed for love of game and respect for the traditions of their team, this formula will work only for so long. One day, fans will unite and demand more.
 
GERALD SILK
New York, Aug. 23, 1996

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES LAKERS LOS ANGELES LAKERS (91%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS LOS ANGELES LAKERS (91%); LOS ANGELES LAKERS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; CONTRACTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BASKETBALL (92%); SPORTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TICKET SALES (76%); SPORTS FANS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); 

PERSON: O'NEAL, SHAQUILLE; SILK, GERALD SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1996



599 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: New York Fiscal Monitors Warn of Rising Debt Cost

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

 BODY:
In the years after it skirted bankruptcy in 1975, New York City restored its financial health in part by winnowing its sizable debt. But now the city's debt burden is growing again, threatening to overrun other areas of its $33 billion annual budget, sapping already dwindling resources like so much fiscal kudzu.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's recently enacted spending plan calls for the city's annual borrowing costs, known as debt service, to be nearly 60 percent higher by the end of the decade than it was in 1990, when calculated as a percentage of the city's tax revenues. 
 New reports from fiscal monitors raise concerns about the city's borrowing, pointing out that by the year 2000, nearly one in every five dollars collected in taxes will go to pay for the cost of debt -- a precarious level that the city last hit only when it was recovering from the fiscal crisis. The figure for 1990 was a little more than one in 10 dollars.
"We see debt service eating up more and more of the city's dollars available for operating purposes," said Cornelius F. Healy, executive director of the Financial Control Board, the state agency that oversees the city's finances. "Regardless of how it got there, somebody better figure out how to deal with it."
The city's outstanding debt is about $30 billion, not much less than its $33 billion annual budget, officials said. In the current budget, the city is paying about $3 billion in borrowing costs. Both those figures are high, but what is more alarming to fiscal monitors is that they are rising faster than the city's tax revenues.
The increase in the debt burden stems largely from two factors. One is a stagnating local economy, which holds down tax revenues, reducing the amount of money that the city has available to pay for its borrowing. The other is an aging matrix of roadways, bridges and schools that were often neglected during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's and are badly in need of repair.
Joseph J. Lhota, the Mayor's budget director, acknowledged that the city was shouldering heavy debt, but he said that the debt payments were not overwhelming. Over the last decade, he pointed out, the city has often had to borrow to make up for cuts in Federal and state aid.
"I don't think that anyone should be worried," Mr. Lhota said. "New York over the years has made a clear choice to fund its capital program to maintain the security and the safety of its very old infrastructure, and that choice has led us to incur debt to maintain the quality of life that we want for our people."
So, while the escalating debt service is seemingly an obscure aspect of the budget, it has important consequences, curbing Mr. Giuliani's ability to undertake projects that give residents a sense that their neighborhoods are not crumbling and that their city has a future.
It also diverts money that the Mayor might otherwise want to direct toward everyday expenses, from foster care to cleaning parks to picking up garbage. Or, as he has often said, toward reducing the city's high taxes.
Debt service played a major role in recent projections by the Giuliani administration that the budget gap in the year 2000 would reach $3.4 billion, the biggest since the fiscal crisis, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of city spending. Since the city by law must balance its budget every year, that estimate spurred Mr. Giuliani earlier this month to order $500 million in new cuts at city agencies.
The Mayor's move showed how the cost of borrowing tends to crowd out other spending. It is far easier for the Mayor to reduce spending on programs carried out by city agencies than on debt service because once the city has promised to make payments to its bondholders, it cannot break its word without defaulting.
A default would all but destroy the city's ability to borrow money and would probably lead the state to take over its finances.
"Debt service is one of the more inflexible components of the budget," Mr. Lhota said.
At the same time, though, the pressure to spend on the kind of big projects that often require borrowing never lets up. Mr. Giuliani tried to cut $1 billion in borrowing over the next four years in his recent budget, seeking to reduce debt service, but he later put some of that back after the City Council proposed a $1.4 billion program to rebuild schools.
"The city can't afford to borrow more because its debt burden is high, but at the same time it can't not afford to borrow more because its infrastructure needs are so great," said Robert A. Kurtter, a vice president at Moody's Investors Service, a Wall Street bond-rating firm. "Clearly they are going to have to wrestle with that in the coming years."
The city could lower its debt service over the long term by paying for more projects from its operating budget -- that is, from the tax revenues that it harvests every year -- instead of borrowing. But the operating budget is so squeezed now that there is no room for more spending, unless the city raises taxes, which the Mayor opposes.
A vast majority of the city's borrowing is for capital projects, meaning construction and major repairs. It is generally considered poor fiscal practice to borrow for operating budgets, though Mr. Giuliani and other New York City mayors have occasionally done so.
Fiscal monitors blame Mr. Giuliani's predecessors as much as the Mayor himself for the current debt situation. The Mayor, the monitors note, is grappling with the effects of borrowing policies and sometimes questionable financial maneuvers that were set in motion as long as two decades ago.
No one is predicting that the city will default on its debt. In fact, the city's recent bond offerings have been snapped up by buyers, who apparently like the high interest rates that the city has to pay because its debt receives relatively low ratings from bond-rating firms.
Yet if not in a crisis, the city still faces serious problems. Its debt has climbed so high that it may soon be prevented from borrowing more because of a limit set by the State Constitution. The Mayor contends that that ceiling is arbitrary and outdated, and he has proposed a way to get around it.
He is asking the State Legislature to create a city agency, the Infrastructure Finance Authority, that would not be subject to the city's limit and would borrow money for projects. It is not yet clear whether the Legislature will approve the Mayor's plan.
Many fiscal monitors agree that the borrowing ceiling is obsolete. They also note, though, that by any standard, the city's debt is very high, particularly when compared with that of other major cities.
The city's $30 billion outstanding debt is not much less than that of New York State. The state, whose budget is double the city's, has $32 billion in outstanding debt, according to an analysis by Moody's Investors Service.
Fiscal monitors say they are worried about those figures. But Mr. Lhota said that even though the debt has climbed, the city cannot stop investing in rebuilding. If it did, he said, it would fall into decay, driving away residents and making its finances far worse.
"The demands on the city's infrastructure, whether school buildings or streets, are massive," he said. "Yes, we are showing that we are going to have a high debt burden. But no one out there is saying that we should be spending less."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Paying for the Debt" shows New York City's debt service costs as a percentage of its tax revenue from 1978 to a projected 2000. (Source: New York City's Comptroller's Office)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS PUBLIC DEBT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); BONDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); LHOTA, JOSEPH J (DIR) RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1996



600 of 698 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 27, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Follow Bonds Lower Over Interest Rate Concerns

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Stock prices declined yesterday in sympathy with bonds, as concerns grew that economic strength might prod interest rates higher.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 28.85 points, to close at 5,693.89, led by declines in J. P. Morgan and Sears, Robeuck. But a rise in Philip Morris blunted the Dow's loss, following a product liability ruling in the tobacco industry's favor by an Indiana jury on Friday. 
 Broader market indexes also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 3.15 points, to 663.88, and the Nasdaq composite index lost 3.83 points, to 1,139.22.
Declining issues led advancers by 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange, but volume was the second lowest for a full session this year at 281.4 million shares, off significantly from Friday's total.
Traders and analysts described a typically slow late-summer session, with many market participants out on vacation and remaining investors looking for reasons to trade.
Weaker bonds provided a slight impetus to sell. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 17/32, to 96 30/32, pushing up the bond's yield -- an important benchmark for corporate and consumer interest rates -- to the psychologically important level of 7 percent from 6.95 percent on Friday. Bond prices and their yields move in opposite directions.
Investors sent bond prices lower amid worries that the economy was growing fast enough to prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates next month.
After markets closed on Friday, the Federal Reserve released minutes of its July policy meeting indicating that at least one member, Gary Stern, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, believes that interest rates should be raised.
Leading the Dow industrials lower was J. P. Morgan, which fell 1 1/2, to 89 7/8. Banking stocks often fall if traders expect interest rates to rise. Close behind J. P. Morgan was Sears, which fell 1 1/2, to 45 7/8.
Oil stocks were also big decliners, with Exxon down 7/8, to 81 5/8, and Chevron down 5/8, to 59 1/4. Oil stocks have been falling lately in sympathy with oil prices, said Rao Chalasani of Everen Securities in Chicago.
But cigarette maker Philip Morris, another Dow index component, rose 2 1/4, to 90 1/4, trimming more than 6 points off the Dow's loss, in the highest volume on the New York Stock Exchange. RJR Nabisco, whose holdings include cigarette maker R. J. Reynolds, gained 1, to 26 1/2, while Loews rose 1 1/4, to 76, and Culbro advanced 3 1/4, to 57. American depository receipts of B.A.T. Industries, each representing two shares, rose 7/16, to 13 11/16.
Tobacco stocks gained after an Indianapolis jury on Friday denied damages to the family of a heavy smoker who died of lung cancer. Meanwhile, proposed Federal legislation would protect cigarette makers from smoking liability lawsuits and Food and Drug Administration regulation in exchange for yearly payments into anti-smoking efforts and health care programs.
Mergers and acquisitions provided some trading interest in isolated sectors. Shares of Worldcom dropped 3 5/8, to 22 3/4, in leading Nasdaq volume, while those of MFS Communications soared 9 15/16, to 44 13/16, in the second-highest Nasdaq volume. Worldcom agreed to purchase MFS for $12 billion, creating a phone company offering local, long distance and Internet services.
Conseco shot up 1 11/16, to 44, on the New York Stock Exchange after the insurance giant agreed to acquire Capitol American Financial, whose shares rose 9 7/8 on the Big Board, to 34 7/8, and American Travellers, whose shares rose 3 3/16, to 31 9/16 in Nasdaq trading.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BTI (NYSE MKT) (57%); BTI (JSE) (57%); BATS (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (57%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (51%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (65%); BRITISH AMERICAN TOBACCO PLC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); KRAFT NABISCO (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDIANA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (94%); BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (79%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1996

 
