

201 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Ouster Opens Opportunity for Obama

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The resignation of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's chief strategist, who came under fire for advising Colombia on a free trade pact, gives Senator Barack Obama an opportunity he has awaited since Mrs. Clinton walloped him on trade issues in Ohio.
 The incident involving Mark Penn threatens to put Mrs. Clinton on the defensive over trade, as Mr. Obama's labor backers accuse her of not being tough enough on preventing agreements that they say cost American jobs. 
 The issue is certain to resonate in Pennsylvania, which holds its primary on April 22 and where one of four primary voters is expected to be from a union household. 
 Pockets of the state have suffered from chronic unemployment and low wages since many factories and steel mills closed, and many people fault free trade agreements.
 In Ohio, where economic troubles are even more widespread, Mrs. Clinton capitalized on the trade issue, thanks to a leaked memorandum. That document said Mr. Obama's top economic adviser had told Canadian officials that he was engaged in campaign rhetoric when he talked about revising the North American Free Trade Agreement. Mr. Obama denied that. 
 Mrs. Clinton made the issue the focus of some advertisements and went on to win the primary on March 4 by a sizable margin. 
 Now Mr. Obama's labor backers are trying to turn the tables. 
 ''Trade is the No. 1 issue in Pennsylvania,'' said James P. Hoffa, president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which has endorsed Mr. Obama.
 Mr. Hoffa said Mr. Penn hurt Mrs. Clinton's campaign when he met Colombian officials in his position as chief executive of Burson-Marsteller, the global public relations firm.
 Colombia had hired Mr. Penn in an effort to reach a free trade agreement with the United States. Many labor leaders oppose the agreement because they say Bogota has done too little to stop the assassinations of union officials.
 ''If Hillary is going to have any credibility on the trade issue,'' Mr. Hoffa said, ''she can't have strategists on her staff who are lobbying for trade agreements like the one with Colombia.''
 Mr. Hoffa said it was not enough for Mr. Penn to leave as chief strategist. He called on Mrs. Clinton to end his role as an adviser and pollster, as well.
 Mr. Hoffa said labor leaders were already uneasy about Mrs. Clinton on trade, saying he remembered when she had helped her husband push for passage of Nafta when he was president.
 Mrs. Clinton's labor supporters say the Obama forces are misguided to question her toughness on trade. At a political conference of the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. last week in Philadelphia, she emphatically denounced the free trade agreement with Colombia that President Bush has endorsed.
 ''Her opposition to the Colombian trade deal has been pretty clear and unequivocal,'' said Kathleen Strand, Mrs. Clinton's communications director in Pennsylvania.
 Gerald McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees and Mrs. Clinton's most outspoken union advocate, also defended her. 
 ''Hillary Clinton has taken the right positions with regard to trade,'' Mr. McEntee said.
 He said he remembered her telling him in the early 1990s that she hoped Nafta would be defeated.
 ''She said she didn't think it could work, and she was against it,'' Mr. McEntee said. 
 Yet Mr. McEntee acknowledged phoning Mrs. Clinton on Saturday to urge her to fire Mr. Penn. 
 ''Penn's presence in the campaign has been a public distraction,'' Mr. McEntee said. ''It sends a mixed message on Nafta and the Colombia trade deal.''
 Mrs. Clinton's role in the Nafta passage came under renewed scrutiny last month when the National Archives released her appointments calendar. It showed that she had attended events where the Clinton administration had promoted Nafta. 
 ''There has always been doubt where she was on Nafta because of her husband,'' said Bill George, president of the Pennsylvania A.F.L.-C.I.O.
 Mr. George said the Penn case would put Mrs. Clinton on the defensive over the next week. He predicted that she might be able to put it behind her before the April 22 primary.
 Some political experts said most Pennsylvanians were less concerned about trade than union leaders, who often represent workers in the industries hardest hit by trade deals.
 ''Pennsylvania lost a lot of steel jobs in the '80s, before Nafta,'' said G. Terry Madonna, a professor of public policy at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa. ''Jobs are always important in our state. But trade is not as important as labor leaders say.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (54%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: BURSON-MARSTELLER (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2008



202 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: State Oil Industry's Future Sets Off Tussle in Mexico

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
A bitter debate over what to do about Mexico's ailing state oil monopoly has dominated national politics here in recent weeks, tapping strong emotions on both sides and resurrecting the political fortunes of the leftist leader who narrowly lost the 2006 presidential election.
 Revamping the oil company, Petroleos Mexicanos, or Pemex, is perhaps the greatest challenge facing the administration of President Felipe Calderon, a conservative economist who won the disputed 2006 election by a hairbreadth. 
 At stake in the debate is not only the future of the Mexican economy but also the supply of oil to the United States. Last year, Mexico was the third largest supplier of crude imports to the American market, after Canada and Saudi Arabia. 
 The government has neglected the public company for 20 years, siphoning off its profits. Now production is dropping, reserves are dwindling, and Pemex lacks the technology to go after undersea oil, the administration says. 
 To reverse dropping production, Mr. Calderon and his conservative National Action Party favor permitting some form of joint ventures with private firms to allow Mexico to tap potential deep-water reserves. 
 ''We have to act now, before it's too late,'' Mr. Calderon said last Thursday. 
 But his rival, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the former Mexico City mayor and presidential candidate, has called any private investment in Pemex a threat to national security and has accused Mr. Calderon of secretly seeking to sell off the industry to private investors, a charge the president denies.
 ''The government, for 25 years, has acted in a deliberate manner, on purpose, to ruin Pemex because they have only one goal, to make Pemex into booty to be plundered and privatize the oil business,'' Mr. Lopez Obrador said in an interview.
 He has cast the president's proposals as a threat to national sovereignty, asserting Mexico ''would be condemned to quit being a country and would turn into a colony.''
 The leftist leader has skillfully used the issue to catapult himself back onto center stage in national politics after a year of remaining on the fringes. At mass rallies, he has threatened blockades of roads, airports and oil wells by his followers if the president even introduces a bill to Congress. 
 With leftists promising unrest, President Calderon warned last week that ignoring the company's problems would cause a catastrophe.
 Yet as of Monday afternoon, Mr. Calderon and his allies in Congress still have not submitted a bill, an indication of their fears of a tough legislative fight and of mass protests. Many members of Congress are growing restless as Mr. Lopez Obrador continues to attract attention with his arguments. 
 Ever since President Lazaro Cardenas nationalized the oil industry in 1938, Pemex has been politically sacrosanct. Taking the oil fields back from foreign companies marked a high point in Mexican history. It was one of the few times Mexico's leaders stood up to business interests here and in the United States on behalf of the Mexican public. 
 So any suggestion of selling off the company to private investors sparks strong protests, especially from left-leaning parties. ''In the rest of the world, oil is a commodity,'' said Hermenegildo Castro, a Senate aide. ''In Mexico it is a symbol of sovereignty and nationalism.'' 
 The trouble is the company is also broke and in debt, despite bringing in $100 billion in revenues last year and enjoying some of the highest crude oil prices in history. 
 For decades Pemex has been a cash cow for the government. It has milked the company's profits to pay for social programs, operating expenses and government salaries, allowing it to keep taxes low and providing presidents with enough largess to keep the political peace. About 40 percent of the federal budget comes from the oil company.
 Some years the taxes the government has exacted from Pemex have forced the company to borrow to balance its budget. A corrupt oil-workers union with a penchant for no-show jobs and lavish perquisites has made matters worse. 
 The government has starved Pemex so severely that company officials and the Calderon administration now say the oil giant has neither the money nor the expertise to explore risky, deep-water oil fields and must enter partnerships with foreign firms, something the Constitution prohibits. 
 The lack of investment in exploration and refineries has left Mexico in dire straits. Oil production has been falling since 2005. Last year alone, it dropped 5.3 percent, to about 3.1 billion barrels a day. 
 At the same time, Pemex has begun to exhaust Mexico's giant offshore Cantarell Field, one of the world's largest. Reserves are disappearing, too, as Pemex pumps oil faster than it can find new deposits. Even exports of crude are falling. 
 To make matters worse, the company has failed to build a new refinery since the 1970s. Mexico now imports about 40 percent of its gasoline, mostly from the United States.
 Against this backdrop, Mr. Calderon's energy minister, Georgina Kessel, and Pemex's director, Jesus Reyes Heroles, unveiled a report last week that said Pemex needed to enter into joint ventures with other companies to increase its production. 
 But the obstacles to such a reform in Congress are formidable. For starters, a bill that gives Pemex more of its own profits to invest will mean either cutting government spending or raising taxes. Neither option appeals to lawmakers in any party.
 In addition, since President Calderon's party does not control Congress, he must persuade members of the former governing party, the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, to support his bill. If any offer their support, and it is unclear how many will, the political price they exact from Mr. Calderon would be high, analysts say.
 Mr. Lopez Obrador, meanwhile, has managed to define the debate broadly as a question of national sovereignty. No one in Congress wants to seem to be selling off Mexican oil reserves to foreign companies. 
 ''They don't want to talk about anything that might be called privatization by Lopez Obrador,'' said David Shields, an author who has spent his career studying Pemex. 
 Despite the constitutional ban on foreign investment, the state oil company already buys technology and services from giant companies like Halliburton and Schlumberger. 
 The Calderon administration has argued in the past that no foreign company is going to sell the technology for deepwater drilling without receiving some of the oil found in return, a position most industry analysts agree with. Recently, however, aides to the president have backed off that argument, saying they will propose contracts with cash incentives for discoveries rather than a percentage of production.
 Mr. Lopez Obrador and other left-wing critics argue that the answer lies not in hiring foreigners to explore deep waters but in letting Pemex keep its profits and purging it of the waste and corruption that hold it back. 
 ''Pemex's principal problem is corruption, and that is not something that was brought even up in the government's diagnostic report,'' Mr. Lopez Obrador said in the interview. ''Imagine if you diagnose a sick person, and you don't mention the principal problem. You cannot prescribe anything.''
 The accusation that the government has long skimmed Pemex's profits as part of a conspiracy to sell it have put Mr. Calderon on the defensive. He has said again and again that his government will not sell off the company, but he seems more and more like a man shouting in a strong wind. 
 ''Mexico is perhaps if not the last then one of the last nations that has not adapted to modernize its petroleum industry,'' he said Thursday. ''What would be a catastrophe is to ignore the facts out of fear, out of political interest or out of special interests.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 10, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about a debate in Mexico over what to do about the country's ailing oil monopoly misstated the amount by which daily oil production fell last year. It dropped 5.3 percent to about 3.1 million (not billion) barrels a day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A supporter of Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, the former presidential candidate, at a Mexico City rally in March. His banner, referring to the state oil company, reads, ''Pemex is not for sale.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDRE MENEGHINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); MAYORS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (57%)

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2008



203 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: Colombia Push For Trade Pact Casts Wide Net

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON and STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
There have been all-expense paid trips to Colombia for more than 50 members of Congress, featuring coffee tastings and dinner at a posh restaurant inside an old Spanish fort. The Colombian president has visited Washington to make personal appeals. Major corporations like WalMart and Citigroup are taking up the cause. And former Clinton administration officials have landed lucrative lobbying contracts.
 This barrage of activity is over the trade pact that cost Mark Penn, a top adviser to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, his job over the weekend. Mr. Penn had been working for a presidential primary candidate opposed to the trade deal with Colombia, while also running a public relations firm hired by the Colombian government to promote it.
 The debate has been quietly brewing ever since the Bush administration finished negotiating the pact to ease trade restrictions in late 2006. Human rights groups and labor leaders have urged Congress to put off considering the deal or to reject it outright, citing paramilitary violence against labor activists in Colombia. 
 The behind-the- scenes dispute has now escalated to a classic Washington boil in recent weeks after President Bush, growing impatient with Democrats on Capitol Hill, decided to send the agreement to Congress anyway, an action he announced formally on Monday.
 ''The need for this agreement is too urgent -- the stakes for our national security are too high -- to allow this year to end without a vote,'' Mr. Bush said.
 He and others cited the need to support Colombia, which does $18 billion of trade with the United States annually and is battling leftist rebels that Colombian officials assert have received financing from the Venezuelan government. 
 To help make its case, Colombia had already hired at least three firms on Capitol Hill, in addition to the work by Mr. Penn's firm, Burson-Marsteller, paying out from $15,000 to $40,000 a month. Collectively the Colombian government has paid more than $1 million to firms that have negotiated or lobbied on behalf of the deal.
 They include the Glover Park Group, the fast-growing firm set up by former Clinton White House aides including Joe Lockhart, who was chief spokesman for the president. (Howard Wolfson, Mrs. Clinton's campaign communications director, was a partner at the firm but has taken a leave of absence.) 
 The firm has approached more than a dozen members of Congress, focusing on moderate Democrats who the lobbyists believe might be persuaded to disregard their party leaders and vote in favor of the deal.
 Lobbyists at Johnson, Madigan, Peck, Boland & Stewart -- whose partners include another former aide in the Clinton White House, Bill Danvers -- have separately met with pro-business Democrats like Representative Joseph Crowley of New York. And Andrew Samet, a deputy secretary of labor in the Clinton administration, has been hired under yet another lobbying contract.
 Mr. Penn got into trouble last week after he attended a meeting with Colombia government officials, as they prepared for the move by Mr. Bush to force a debate in Congress. His firm had been representing the Colombian government since last April, helping it promote the deal with news media, among other tasks.
 But Mr. Penn, a strategist and pollster, ended up getting blasted by both sides. The Colombian government canceled the contract with his firm after he called the meeting an ''error in judgment.'' Mr. Penn then stepped down from his campaign post after Mrs. Clinton was criticized for having a close adviser lobbying for a pact she opposed. Mr. Penn's advocacy was particularly awkward because Mrs. Clinton increasingly has taken a stance opposing free trade during her campaign. 
 The ties between the lobbying firms and the Clinton campaign illustrate the complexity of Washington's political world, where players are often switching positions or playing multiple roles. While Mr. Wolfson has taken a leave from Glover Park, for example, he still has equity in the firm valued at $500,000 to $1 million, according to a disclosure form.
 A long list of former Clinton administration aides, including Mack McLarty, the former counsel to the president; Donna E. Shalala, the health and human services secretary; and Leon E. Panetta, the onetime chief of staff, also have come out in support of the deal. It puts them in alliance with Mr. Bush and Republican leaders.
 Besides the Colombian government, the Bush administration has perhaps been the most forceful player in the fight, holding more than 400 meetings or telephone conference calls with officials on Capitol Hill to push the deal, the president said Monday. It has also paid most of the cost of the Congressional delegations, although an administration spokesman said on Monday that he could not estimate what the tab for these trips had been.
 One trip, which wrapped up Sunday night, showed off Colombia to nine members of Congress, who first toured Medellin, the onetime capital of the cocaine trade, and met with the former mayor and labor leaders who support the free-trade deal. They also stopped by a flower farm and tasted Colombian coffee. The next stop was Cartagena, where they heard from other labor leaders who opposed the pact.
 But the overwhelming message of the trip was that the deal would be good for Colombia and the United States, said Representative Rodney Frelinghuysen, Republican of New Jersey.
 ''This is a nation that has recovered enormously from the scourge of violence and drug wars,'' Mr. Frelinghuysen said.
 To opponents of the deal, the campaign by the Colombia government, their lobbyists and the Bush administration proves how uneasy they are about the prospects for its adoption. 
 Bill Samuel, a lobbyist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said, ''They obviously think they have a product that is going to be difficult to sell.'' 
 The opposition cites a history of attacks in Colombia against trade union members, 39 of whom the A.F.L.-C.I.O. says were killed in the country last year after trying to stand up for worker rights. The government there, the union leaders claim, has not completely cut its ties to paramilitary organizations responsible for the attacks or taken stiff enough action against those involved in the crimes.
 The A.F.L.-C.I.O. intends to run newspaper advertisements this week that say, ''Don't Reward Murder.'' 
 Colombian officials respond that in the five years since President Alvaro Uribe has been in power, violence in the country has declined significantly, including attacks against unionists. At the same time, the economy has boomed.
 Trade with Colombia is a minuscule portion of the United States' global trade. The United States imports grains, cotton, flowers and soybeans from Colombia, and exports chemicals, plastics, cereal, heavy machinery and electronics. 
 Most of what the United States imports, moreover, is duty-free under trade preferences that are renewed periodically. But opponents of the deal argue that keeping products permanently duty-free might prompt American companies to transfer their manufacturing units to Colombia, costing American jobs.
 The Bush administration concedes that it does not yet have enough Democratic votes to join with the overwhelming majority of Republican votes expected to endorse the Colombia deal.
 ''This is a very difficult issue for Democrats,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel, the Illinois Democrat who is chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. ''The way the administration has handled it has made it more difficult.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); POLITICS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (67%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (55%); HUMAN RIGHTS (53%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); BURSON-MARSTELLER (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); JOSEPH CROWLEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2008



204 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: A Different Kind of Election

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

DATELINE: Tremont, Pa. 

 BODY:
 The teenage girl came running out of Behm's Family Restaurant, calling after me. ''Hey!'' she said. ''Don't just talk to the older people. You should talk to some young people, too.''
 She told me with a sense of urgency that her name is Antonia Raris, she's a senior in high school, she hopes to go on to college, and she's for Hillary. 
 She made a gesture over her shoulder toward the restaurant: ''Just about everybody in there is for Hillary.''
 I was in Hillary Clinton territory, interviewing people who are grappling with economic hard times in cities, towns and boroughs from Scranton, where Senator Clinton's father was born and raised, to Allentown.
 I was trying to gauge the level of opposition to Barack Obama's candidacy, and there was a fair amount of it, most of it shaded by comments like: ''He's not ready.'' ''Too inexperienced.'' ''Maybe in eight years.''
 Some people said they had been frightened by the fiery rhetoric of Mr. Obama's former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright. ''I was scared by that, yes,'' said Lisa Luteki, a Scranton resident whose husband, Joe, is a volunteer in Senator Clinton's campaign.
 At Behm's restaurant, a steelworker named Roger Adams acknowledged that there were members of his union ''who would say they didn't want Obama because, you know, he's colored.''
 Mr. Adams's friend and fellow union member, Ken Moyer, nodded. ''They might believe race would become the issue rather than running the country,'' he said.
 The issue of race seemed always in the air. But competing with race as an issue, and perhaps trumping it, was economics. This is an area that's hurting. Tony Walck, the mayor of the village of Nesquehoning and a big Clinton supporter, talked about the exodus of jobs from the region.
 ''Bethlehem Steel shut down,'' he said. ''Mack Motors is downsizing drastically. Even the Republicans in this district are disenchanted.'' 
 Senator Clinton's supporters are hoping for a miracle, hoping she can win big in Pennsylvania, run the table after that, and somehow seize a nomination that looks more and more like it is going to Mr. Obama. If that doesn't happen, an awful lot of white working-class voters across the country will be faced with a stark choice: voting for a Democrat who happens to be black, or voting to continue policies that most no longer believe are in their best economic interests.
 I had no trouble finding opposition to Mr. Obama's candidacy. But the most intense hostility, the most passionate, spontaneous, bitter and at times venomous comments were reserved for George W. Bush. And in conversation after conversation, you could see the fallout from that hostility descending on the candidacy of John McCain.
 Lisa Luteki may have a problem with Barack Obama's former pastor, but she shook her head vehemently at the mention of Senator McCain. ''I won't support McCain,'' she said.
 Her husband leaned forward, as if for emphasis: ''Bush has devastated this country,'' he said, ''and McCain would be more of the same.''
 Roger Adams, the steelworker, was a Reagan Democrat. He switched his voter registration from Democrat to Republican in the 1980s. Now he's back with the Democrats. ''I hope Hillary gets the nomination,'' he said. ''But if she doesn't, I'll vote for Obama without any trouble. We can't stand another four years of Bush, and that's what McCain would be.''
 The table is set for the Democrats. Nearly all the issues are lined up in their favor. The national economy has cratered. The war in Iraq, after all these years, is still not going well. The Republicans have chosen a candidate who is neither charismatic nor inspirational, and who certainly does not represent change in what has shaped up to be a change election.
 If ever there was a race tailor-made for the Democratic Party, this is it.
 But the Democrats are about to nominate a woman or an African-American, and I doubt that either one of those candidacies will fly without an extraordinary amount of party unity behind it. 
 What the Democrats have to worry about are fractures within. The big question is whether the losers in the fight for the nomination will wholeheartedly support the winners. The party was unable to get its act together in 1968 and unite behind Hubert Humphrey, thus opening the door for Richard Nixon. The ramifications of that bitter election are still being felt.
 This year, whether the nominee is Mr. Obama or Mrs. Clinton, the candidate will have to shoulder some pretty heavy negatives in the general election. If the Clinton camp is unwilling to go to the mat for an Obama candidacy, or vice versa, it will be the Republicans who, despite the long odds, will be kicking back in the White House yet again next January. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); CITIES (74%); MAYORS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (64%)

COMPANY: BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (92%); ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2008



205 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: April 8, 2008

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Natural History

BYLINE: ANDREW BIRD


HIGHLIGHT: On to Nashville, where the evolution of the song &#8220;Oh No&#8221; continues in the studio. 

 BODY:
 The following was written in the last week of March, while I was recording my next album at The Beech House, Mark Nevers's studio in Nashville. 
The record I want to make here and now - the one I wish I could find in my local record store - is a gentle, lulling, polyrhythmic, minimalist yet warm tapestry of acoustic instruments. No solos, just interlocking parts. A little Steve Reich, but groovier. A little Ghanaian street music, but more arranged. Thick and creamy vocals like the Zombies's Colin Blunstone. The bass warm and tubby like Studio One dub. 
I've worked with Mark Nevers a few times before. We made "Weather Systems" in 2003 and he has had me down to play on some great records by the likes of Candi Staton, Will Oldham (a.k.a. Bonnie "Prince" Billy) and Bobby Bare Sr. and Jr. He is especially good with acoustic instruments and subtle, textural ambiance. He records guitars and vocals really "hot" so the sound saturates the analog tape. I knew his approach was right for me in 2003 when we recorded "First Song," a quiet, spare tune. Driving home at 80 m.p.h., I could hear every note. 
("First Song" is a poem by Galway Kinnell that I set to memory when I was 19, and then set to music for "Weather Systems." It's been a reminder over the years of what to strive for in my lyrics. The sound of the words creates a mood far more powerful than the meaning of the words themselves. It also reminds me of my farm.)
In the two weeks before recording I planned two songwriting field trips. I never do this. At least not so deliberately. I've been noticing a theme of natural history and nomenclature in putting together this record so I visited the Garfield Park conservatory one week and the Field Museum the next. I spent hours at the turn-of-the-century gardens looking for good names of mosses and ferns. Then I visited a friend who works in the bird wing at the Field Museum disemboweling and dressing bird specimens. I was fascinated by the dermestid colony they've had since the 1960's. It's a room full of beetles that pick clean geese, wolves and moose skulls for skeletal specimens. The last lyrics I wrote reference this room and Anthurium, a genus of plants.
But back to Nashville ... So now I'm working with Nevers again, playing my old Martin guitar, and have brought my bandmate Jeremy Ylvisaker down to play an old Hummingbird. We're tracking these songs from the top down - that is, instead of starting with drums and bass we start with vocals and work our way back. The plan is to track about nine songs and send them to my drummer/collaborator, Martin Dosh, in Minneapolis, where he will construct rhythm tracks in his basement. We have been using some better-than-functional click tracks Martin made based on demos so we still feel his presence while tracking.
I'm well aware of the risk of recording this way, tracking different elements in different cities instead of a band playing in a room together, but I've come to believe that recording and playing live are two completely different animals. Live shows are adrenaline-fueled and spontaneous: if you want to capture that then you should put out a live show recording. But the kind of record you want to listen to over and over again in your bedroom or car is something else - a carefully carved piece of sound. 
So we started this record with "Oh No," the song I wrote about in my last post. We tracked it live with two acoustic guitars and some improvised whistling and got it on the second take. I'm pretty happy with it. The whistling sounds are especially otherworldly. (Audio excerpt from the session is above.)
I don't like settling on a melody before we roll tape. In fact I never settle, even after the record is finished. I have to make sure I'm writing songs that have room for improvisation, even if they are simple pop songs. I'll be playing this song live for the next two or three years and if I get bored with it, it's my own fault. 
Lyrically, I decided to go with "calcified arhythmatist" rather than "unemployed ex-physicist." It also sounds like arithmatist, as in one who does arithmetic, which makes just as much sense. I'm not sure if this is correct but don't really care. I enjoy misunderstanding other people's lyrics and take pleasure in others misunderstanding mine. I'm not suggesting that meaning is unimportant, but words like these on the fringe of meaning can spark the imagination. 
The only thing that separates a mess of seemingly disparate observations and a song is a moment of excessive confidence. As time goes on words and ideas begin to catch and gather around the original suspiciously arbitrary seeds of inspiration. There are times when I must admit that all the verse has in common with the chorus is that they both came out of my imagination, but isn't that enough?
The thing that's unprecedented about "Oh No" - at least for me - is that the chorus actually happens three times. I've always had a block against repeating myself. Repetition is one of the basic tenets of pop music and I've gone from deploring it to seeing it as a great virtue. There's this tension between the restless, early-jazz-obsessed 22-year-old I once was and my present self, who finds writing a simple and direct song infinitely challenging. I think that's why I respond to Louis Armstrong, Coleman Hawkins and Lester Young. They were improvising not in a linear, searching way but with the goal of finding a new melody and then, god forbid, repeating themselves. 
The recording process begs you to deconstruct a song and piece it back together track by track. The result, though, is often more straight or conventional than how I make music on stage with loops, which morph with every layer. As I keep layering I tend to stray farther from the tonic or the "conventional notes," but in an intuitive way. That's why arranging my music for orchestra feels like a potential drag. What I love about this process is that I never know what's going to come out of me.
Tracking can be incredibly exhausting. I can't seem to record in a sane, methodical way. Right now, I'm a wreck. My adrenal glands have been wrung dry. It doesn't have to be this way, but this is how it has always felt to make a record. I have to pull myself back together each morning to start the day with vocals. For some reason my voice is more chesty and boomy in the morning. It's a mix of grogginess and caffeine-inspired confidence, before I remember how to be neurotic. 
I rely on very obvious signs to know when I should quit for the day, such as tripping on a cable and causing my violin to fall and break in two, which actually happened. I was so focused on the part I was about to play I put aside my broken, priceless instrument and told Mark to keep recording and cued up the pre-disaster loop I had made and filtered the mass of strings through the "blister-agent" effect, which turns everything into pleasantly mind-numbing fuzz. I only regret the crash of the violin was not recorded as it would have been the perfect punctuation for the song. 
Now I need to get my fiddle fixed.
Andrew Bird is a Chicago-based singer, songwriter, violinist, guitarist and whistler. He has released 10 albums, including "Weather Systems" (2003), "The Mysterious Production of Eggs" (2005) and most recently, "Armchair Apocrypha" (2007). In March, he won the Plug Independent Music Award for Male Artist of the Year and is currently at work on his next album. His Web site is andrewbird.net. 

        
Words and Bridges
        
An Uncommon Thread, Part One
        
Catch and Release
        
Without Words
        
Surviving the Hits

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAMMALS (85%); SONG WRITING (78%); WRITERS (78%); WEATHER (77%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (76%); MUSIC STORES (73%); STREET ART (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); BIRDS (65%) Music; Nashville (Tenn); writing and writers; Writing and Writers; Measure for Measure

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Nashville (Tenn)

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2013



206 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; TechInnovation; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Harnessing Biology, And Avoiding Oil, For Chemical Goods

BYLINE: By YUDHIJIT BHATTACHARJEE

 BODY:
THE next time you stop at a gas station, wincing at the $3.50-a-gallon price and bemoaning society's dependence on petroleum, take a step back and look inside your car.
 Much of what you see in there comes from petroleum, too: the plastic dashboard, the foam in the seats. More than a tenth of the world's oil is spent not on powering engines but as a feedstock for making chemicals that enrich many goods -- from cosmetics to cleaners and fabric to automobile parts. 
 In recent years, this unsettling fact has motivated academic researchers and corporations to find ways to make bulk chemicals from renewable sources like corn and switchgrass. The effort to tap biomass for chemicals runs parallel to the higher-stakes research aimed at developing biofuels. Researchers hope that the two will come together soon to help replace petroleum refineries with biorefineries. 
 ''As petroleum prices go up and climate change becomes a serious concern, the economy will have no choice but to switch to a chemical base derived from plant materials,'' said Dr. Richard Gross, director of the Center for Biocatalysis and Bioprocessing of Macromolecules at Polytechnic University in Brooklyn. 
 The chemical industry is beginning to make that transition, at least for a few products. One success story is a method developed by DuPont, with Genencor, to ferment corn sugar into a substance called propanediol. Using propanediol as a starting point, DuPont has created a new polymer it calls Cerenol, which it substitutes for petroleum-sourced ingredients in products like auto paints. 
 Similarly, the biotech giant Cargill has begun manufacturing a polymer from vegetable oils that is used in polyurethane foams, which is found in beddings, furniture and car-seat headrests. Cargill says that using the polymer does more than save crude oil and reduce carbon emissions: the foam it produces has a more uniform density and load-bearing capacity.
 Researchers say these products are a good beginning, but that new cost-effective processes are needed before biorefineries can replace all petroleum-based chemicals. Many of the solutions, they say, could come from novel ways of harnessing biology. 
 That's what John Frost and Karen Draths, a husband-and-wife team of chemists, showed in the late 1990s when they engineered micro-organisms that could convert glucose into aromatic alcohols -- compounds traditionally produced from a petroleum product and used to make plastics.
 Dr. Frost said that the research had been inspired by his fascination with microbes as a child, when his father, a dentist, described the work of patients who happened to be chemists. ''I thought this was pretty cool stuff,'' he said. 
 Dr. Frost and Dr. Draths, who left their jobs as professors at Michigan State University in December 2006 to start Draths Corporation, have more recently developed a microbial process for making phloroglucinol, a chemical to replace formaldehyde, a carcinogen, in adhesive resins. The company is also commercializing a way to make nylon entirely from renewable feedstocks like starch and cellulose. 
 ''In this approach,'' Dr. Frost said, ''what was last growing season's carbon dioxide is this quarter's carbon used for the manufacture of chemicals and polymers.''
 To make biobased manufacturing economically appealing, researchers are also determining ways to reduce the energy costs of transforming hydrocarbon building blocks like sugars and alcohols obtained from biomass into polymers. Dr. Gross and his colleagues at Polytechnic University have been using enzymes for that goal -- making, among other things, a biodegradable polyester coating. 
 Some researchers are exploring renewable feedstocks as a source for novel materials, which could provide another economic incentive to companies to pursue biobased chemical production. 
 Dr. George John, a chemist at the City College of New York, and others, for example, have designed a polymer gel for drug ingestion using a byproduct of the fruit industry as a starting point. By adding an enzyme to the gel, which breaks it down over a few hours, the researchers can control the release of the drug after it is swallowed. 
 More players are expected to enter the field as rising oil prices force countries to increase production of biodiesel, providing a bigger supply of the byproduct glycerol. 
 ''It could prove to be a very valuable commodity,'' said Keith Simons, a chemist who consults for the Glycerol Challenge, a project started by a group of British companies and universities. The $3.6 million-a-year effort is aimed at developing catalysts and other technologies that will use glycerol as a feedstock ''for making various downstream chemicals,'' Mr. Simons said. 
 The payoffs from developing biobased chemicals could be huge and unexpected, said Dr. John Pierce, DuPont's vice president for applied biosciences-technology. He pointed to DuPont's synthesis of propanediol, which was pushed along by the company's goal to use the chemical to make Sorona, a stain-resistant textile that does not lose color easily. 
 Soon DuPont scientists realized that bioderived propanediol could also be used as an ingredient in cosmetics and products for de-icing aircraft. The high-end grades that are now used in cosmetics are less irritating than traditional molecules, Dr. Pierce said, and the industrial grade used in de-icing products is biodegradable, which makes it better than other options. 
 ''It looks like we found a bit of a gold vein,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: INVENTIVE: John Frost, left, and his wife, Karen Draths, in their company lab. The scientists there use the glass shield, above, as a board on which to write chemical formulas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); BIOMASS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); POLYMERS (89%); CHEMISTRY (89%); COMMODITY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); POLYURETHANE (77%); CHEMICALS MFG (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (74%); EMISSIONS (73%); COSMETICS (73%); PLASTICS (72%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); ALCOHOLS (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (70%); BIOFUELS (69%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



207 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Study Gives High Marks to U.S. Internet

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Contradicting earlier studies, conventional wisdom and politicians' rhetoric, European researchers say that the Internet infrastructure of the United States is one of the world's best and getting better.
 The Global Information Technology Report issued on Wednesday found that the United States now ranked fourth in the world behind just three European nations: Denmark, Sweden and Switzerland. Last year the United States was ranked seventh. 
 The study, which has been issued annually for the last seven years, is an effort to draw a more complete picture of national network readiness. 
 The study was done by Insead, the business school near Paris, on behalf of the World Economic Forum, a policy and conference group based in Switzerland. It used an index generated from 68 variables including market factors, political and regulatory environment and technology infrastructure rather than just bandwidth capacity and data transmission speeds. 
 Some Internet industry veterans were skeptical of the positive claims about the United States compared with the rest of the world. ''My gut feeling is that we don't have the type of deployment you have abroad,'' said David J. Farber, an Internet pioneer and a professor of computer science at Carnegie Mellon University. ''If you are looking at broadband, we have a lot of problems. We are slow as molasses in deploying the next generation.''
 The Insead assessment offers a stark contrast to other appraisals based on single measures that have portrayed the United States, the nation that invented the global data network, as both lagging and declining in the broadband boom. Last year a range of statistics on global bandwidth use indicated that the United States was trailing other industrial nations in both broadband network consumption and penetration as a percentage of population.
 For example, statistics maintained by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development gave a conflicting message. The average advertised broadband download speed of 23 American providers was 8.8 megabits a second, while the average for 23 providers in Denmark was a considerably slower 5.9 megabits. At the same time the number of broadband subscribers in Denmark was 34.3 for every 100 inhabitants, compared with 22.1 in the United States, according to a study in October 2007. 
 However, one of the authors of the Insead report said the narrow measures had failed to capture the true impact of the Internet when it was considered in a cultural, economic and political context. 
 ''What the U.S. has is a number of strengths along a number of dimensions,'' said Soumitra Dutta, a professor of information systems at Insead and the director of the study. ''It is not just a question of technology. Political and economic factors become extremely important.''
 He pointed to France as a country that was a technology leader in terms of network services that had trailed in the study, ranked at 21. ''It's not because France is lacking in technology,'' Professor Dutta said. ''If you look at other kinds of regulatory issues and labor conditions, you find a rigid situation that prohibits companies from making the most effective use of technology.''
 An O.E.C.D. economist acknowledged the nuances in taking into account government regulatory and related factors, and said it was hard to draw a single conclusion from the data. ''I think we can say that a lot of the situation in the United States is a result of the lack of competition,'' said Taylor Reynolds, an economist in the Internet and Telecommunications Policy section of the O.E.C.D. ''In Europe we have adopted an unbundling strategy wholeheartedly.''
 That has led to more competition in markets outside the United States, he said, which in turn has driven Internet service providers elsewhere to offer speedier service and lower prices.
 One aspect of global competition that is being watched closely, he added, is the way fiber optic networks are being introduced in different regions. Even though the United States has begun to accelerate the availability of fiber optic services, it is lagging Europe and Asia in network speeds. 
 While Verizon is offering 50 megabit FIOS in the United States, 100 megabit services are common in Europe, and the Japanese are offering 1 gigabit services.
 Still, there are puzzling aspects to the American market, which has higher broadband availability than many countries but lower adoption rates. More customers have retained dial-up services than most countries, which might be explained by price or lack of attractive broadband services. 
 Industry executives in the United States said the Insead report was a significant counterweight to the one-dimensional O.E.C.D. statistics. ''Being an optimist, I'm seeing some significant and promising things happening in the United States,'' said Robert Pepper, senior managing director, Global Advanced Technology Policy at Cisco Systems, the world's largest networking equipment company.
 The study portrayed a number of global trends. Five Nordic countries were reported among the world's top 10. South Korea posted one of the most significant improvements in the last year, moving up 10 places in the ranking to ninth, and China moved up five positions to 57th. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: South Koreans played video games in Seoul last month. South Korea rose 10 places to ninth in the ranking of network services for the World Economic Forum. The United States was fourth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUNG YEON-JE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); BROADBAND (89%); BANDWIDTH (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); DATA TRANSMISSION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); DENMARK (90%); FRANCE (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



208 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: 2 Oil Firms Plan Alaska Gas Pipeline

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD and CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
Two of the world's biggest oil companies, BP and ConocoPhillips, joined forces Tuesday to try to break a longstanding deadlock over Alaska's vast reserves of natural gas. They said they would spend billions to build a pipeline from the North Slope to feed energy-hungry markets in the United States and Canada.
 The proposal won praise from Alaska's governor, Sarah Palin. ''It's a good day,'' she told reporters in Alaska. 
 The announcement comes at a time when consumption of natural gas in the United States is increasing and conventional production is declining. Natural gas is cleaner than other power sources, like coal, and analysts say it is becoming increasingly critical to the nation's energy needs.
 BP and Conoco will initially spend $600 million in the next three years to drum up support for the project, seek state and federal approval, and secure gas supplies for the pipeline. BP and Conoco said the project would be the largest-ever private sector construction project in North America. 
 The project, which would include a $5 billion gas-processing facility on the North Slope, would cost about $30 billion and take at least 10 years to complete.
 At a time when both energy prices and construction costs are soaring, the endeavor would dwarf the 800 mile trans-Alaska oil pipeline, a momentous project completed in 1977 and that brought jobs and revenue to Alaska. As oil production from the Prudhoe Bay field declines, Alaskans are hoping that natural gas will take over from oil.
 An Alaska gas pipeline has long been sought as a critical component of the nation's energy security. The planned pipeline would have a daily capacity of 4 billion cubic feet of natural gas, or almost 7 percent of current United States consumption.
 But the companies will have to overcome some huge hurdles, said Christopher Ruppel, an energy analyst at Execution, a brokerage and research firm.
 ''We've had a long record of Alaska pipeline projects coming out of Alaska and Canada, and they have consistently been delayed because of political opposition and rising costs,'' he said. ''The United States and Canada desperately need the gas. But the question is, is it doable?''
 The companies will need to secure more than 1,000 permits from local, state and federal authorities in both the United States and Canada, a process that will most likely take years. They need to negotiate with native tribes along the pipeline's route to secure the right of way. If the oil pipeline is any guide, the gas line will also require vast engineering feats.
 But with higher prices, and a growing appetite for natural gas, the economics of such a large project are starting to make sense for oil companies. The companies said the initial plan is to build a 2,000-mile pipeline from Alaska's North Slope to the Canadian province of Alberta; that would add to the total North American gas supply, freeing some Canadian gas for export to the United States. Eventually, the pipeline might be extended 1,500 miles, to Chicago.
 ''This will be a massive undertaking,'' said Doug Suttles, president of BP Alaska. ''It is going to take the big team to get this going.''
 The plan to build a natural gas pipeline to export the state's vast gas resources has been tangled in Alaskan politics for years. Today, Alaska's estimated 35 trillion feet of gas reserves are either re-injected into oil fields or left dormant because of a lack of export facilities to bring them to consumers.
 When Governor Palin took office in late 2006, she interrupted pipeline negotiations that her predecessor, Frank H. Murkowski, had been pursuing with the North Slope oil operators, BP, Conoco and Exxon Mobil. 
 She started from scratch after criticizing the previous talks as not being competitive enough, and sought to bring in new operators in order to secure better terms for Alaska. Her administration is evaluating a proposal made by a Canadian pipeline operator, TransCanada. 
 But the oil companies complained about the delays and said the governor's procedure was unrealistic. Eschewing $500 million in potential subsidies from the state, BP and ConocoPhillips declared on Tuesday that the economics of natural gas have reached the point that they can finance the pipeline on their own. 
 James L. Bowles, the president of Conoco Alaska, said that while the companies would seek no state subsidies, they will try to meet requirements outlined by Alaskan authorities, like offering local delivery points on the pipeline to meet the state's natural gas requirements.
 ''This project is moving forward on its own,'' he said. 
 Ms. Palin welcomed BP's and Conoco's proposal, while stopping short of formally endorsing it. She told reporters that she would meet with executives from the companies to find out more about the joint project. Still, she added, ''it sounds great for the state of Alaska.'' 
 The plan came as a surprise to Exxon, which said it had been invited to participate only a few days ago. The company will now ''evaluate all options,'' according to Margaret Ross, an Exxon spokeswoman. 
 BP and Conoco said they would welcome Exxon's participation.
 Many analysts have voiced concerns that natural gas prices would keep rising as domestic demand grows and Canada's exports fall because of increased consumption there. 
 Without a natural gas pipeline, the United States will increasingly depend on imports of natural gas in liquefied form, a source that is costly and potentially vulnerable to political instability in the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. Greater demand is already pushing prices higher, and adding to pressure to open deeper waters off the country's coast for exploration.
 Amy Myers Jaffe, an energy analyst at Rice University, said a gas pipeline was badly needed, in addition to the liquefied natural gas projects under consideration. ''In the long term it's not going to mean we are not going to need L.N.G., but we would need a lot more L.N.G. if Alaska does not happen,'' she said.
 Natural gas consumption rose by 6.2 percent in 2007, to 23 trillion cubic feet, from 21.7 trillion cubic feet in 2006, according to the Energy Information Administration.
 Natural gas prices, which averaged $2 a thousand cubic feet in the 1990s, have soared in the last decade. It recently traded at $9.74 a thousand cubic feet on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James L. Bowles, left, Conoco Alaska's president, and Doug Suttles, BP Alaska's president, announced plans Tuesday to develop jointly a pipeline to move natural gas from the North Slope. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AL GRILLO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.C8) MAP: Map of pipeline from Prudhoe Bay, Alaska to Chicago, Ill. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (91%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (89%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (77%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (77%); NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); ENGINEERING (75%); MINING OUTPUT (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); APPROVALS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (70%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (95%); BP PLC (92%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (95%); BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (95%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (95%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (95%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (95%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (95%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (95%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) ALASKA, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); CANADA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



209 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Job Losses Bolster Calls For Extension Of Benefits

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
Job losses in the national economy combined with a surge in new claims for unemployment insurance are giving a boost to proposals -- pushed for months by Democratic leaders and labor groups -- to extend unemployment benefits beyond their usual limit of 26 weeks. 
 Bolstering the case for an extension, its advocates say, are indications that laid-off workers are having an especially tough time finding new jobs, even compared with past recessions. 
 Over the last year, more unemployed workers have exhausted their benefits before finding new jobs than in the years preceding the recessions of 1990 and 2001, according to a new analysis by a private research group, the National Employment Law Project, which will present its findings to Congress on Thursday. 
 There were 407,000 new applicants in the week that ended March 29, an increase of 38,000 over the previous week, according to federal data. Nearly three million workers were collecting state unemployment insurance as of March 22. But from March 2007 to March 2008, 2.7 million workers saw their benefits, averaging $290 a month, run out, putting intense financial pressure on families and worsening other problems like mortgage defaults. 
 Extending benefits can reduce personal hardships and also, economists say, provide a quick and sure boost to the economy since recipients nearly always spend the money to meet immediate needs. In 2002 -- after the recession had ended, it was later determined -- Congress passed an extension of 13 weeks, and more in states with particularly high and rising unemployment. In 1990, what started as an addition of 13 weeks was later expanded to 26 weeks, with some states authorized to pay benefits for an extra 33 weeks.
 Most of those laid off over the last 12 months eventually found work, but about 821,000 workers exhausted state unemployment insurance benefits and remain unemployed today, according to a new calculation by the Employment Law Project, based in Oakland, Calif., using a method developed by the Labor Department.
 The call for extending benefits, which is normally done during recessions, has taken on sharp political tones at a time when the White House has avoided declaring an economic downturn. 
 Democrats in Congress had wanted to include an extension in the stimulus plan passed in February, but the White House opposed it. The main proposals would allow payments for an additional 13 weeks in most states, and 26 weeks in states with especially high unemployment, by drawing down the federal unemployment trust fund, which holds more than $35 billion. 
 On Monday, President Bush again rejected the idea, urging Congress to ''give the pro-growth package that was passed overwhelmingly a chance to work.'' 
 Both Democratic presidential candidates have renewed their calls for a benefits extension as part of a ''second stimulus.'' Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, has not supported the idea. 
 Congressional Democrats are stepping up their efforts and hope that more Republicans, especially from states with high unemployment, will join them. 
 In a report issued Tuesday, the House Ways and Means Committee said that ''nearly 1.3 million workers have been unemployed for more than six months'' and that ''Congress should quickly extend unemployment benefits.'' 
 According to a report by the Congressional Budget Office, extended benefits would cost $1 billion to $2 billion per month, and would be a quick way to increase spending and aid the economy. 
 Advocates of a benefits extension note that long-term joblessness is a bigger problem now than it was at the start of past recessions. The average duration of unemployment for laid-off workers was 16.2 weeks in March 2008, compared with 12.6 weeks in March 2001 and 11.9 weeks in July 1990, according to federal data. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); FAMILY (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



210 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Income Gap in Connecticut Is Growing Fastest, Study Finds

BYLINE: By ALISON LEIGH COWAN; Greg Hladky contributed reporting from New Haven and Ken Belson from New York.

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn. 

 BODY:
Marie Wendorff knows better than most about Connecticut's economic contradictions. 
 By age 38, Ms. Wendorff had accumulated the trophies of suburban life: a picturesque 3,800-square-foot Colonial house in Wilton, membership in the local country club, a ski house in Windham, N.Y., and a 24-foot boat docked in Long Island Sound. But a messy divorce in 2004 pushed her into bankruptcy. 
 On the same day in the summer of 2005 that she applied for food stamps, she was invited to attend a friend's birthday party on a yacht. 
 ''It's like two different worlds,'' said Ms. Wendorff, a mother of three who has struggled to keep her family afloat amid a sea of wealth.
 Like Ms. Wendorff, Connecticut is straddling those worlds. According to a new study by two groups based in Washington, the Economic Policy Institute and the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the income gap between the have-lots and the have-nots is widening faster in Connecticut than in any other state. 
 Adjusting census data for inflation, the study compared average family incomes from 2004 to 2006 with those from 1987 to 1989. In Connecticut, income increased by $52,439, or 45 percent, for the top fifth of Connecticut households, while the bottom fifth's income dropped $4,437, or 17 percent.
 The study, released on Tuesday, also found that Connecticut is the only state in the nation where the poorest 20 percent of people lost real ground over the last 20 years (the loss in Rhode Island, $992, or 5 percent, was deemed statistically insignificant).
 Nationally, the study showed that the incomes of the richest 20 percent rose an average of 36 percent in the last two decades, while those of the poorest 20 percent rose 11 percent.
 Higher income at the upper end and lower income at the bottom meant that Connecticut's rich earned 8 times as much on average, as its poor, up from 4.6 times when measured two decades ago. Nationally, the gap was 7.3 times between 2004 and 2006, up from 6 times two decades earlier.
 New York had the highest income gap among the 50 states in 2004 to 2006, according to the study, with the top fifth earning an average of $148,200 a year, or 8.7 times the $17,100 income at the bottom. Connecticut ranked seventh and New Jersey, where the rich earned 7.5 times what the poor did, was 14th. (The rankings did not include Washington, D.C., which had by far the biggest income gap, with the rich earning an average of $188,500, the highest income in the country, 13.5 times the poor's $14,000 average.) 
 The study's authors adjusted family income for federal taxes but not state and local taxes. So the study may not accurately capture the gap in high-tax states like New York that tax high earners for the benefit of those who are struggling.
 And the study ended in 2006, well before problems in the subprime mortgage market roiled the stock market and swept away some of the fortunes and jobs of those reaping the benefits of a strong economy.
 The authors said that they hoped to use the report to advance policies -- like raising income taxes rather than sales taxes or sin taxes, which tend to be regressive -- that might reduce income inequality. They also favor indexing the minimum wage to inflation, increasing eligibility for unemployment insurance and expanding the earned-income tax credit to give lower-income families a break on state taxes. 
 ''Connecticut has attempted 28 times to enact an earned-income tax credit,'' said Doug Hall, the associate research director of Connecticut Voices for Children, an advocacy group in New Haven that issued a companion study to the report. He said that Connecticut's lower-income families struggle because they must compete with extremely wealthy families for basic commodities like gas and housing.
 ''In Connecticut, things like rent and groceries will be inflated because of that supercharged economy, because of those high incomes that are driving that economy,'' he said. ''We remain the only state in New England with an income tax that does not have an earned-income tax credit.''
 Mary-Jane Foster, owner of the Bridgeport Bluefish, a minor league baseball team, whose family is in that top fifth of families in Connecticut earning more than $169,000 a year, said she supports the earned-income tax credit and a minimum-wage hike, though she worries that Connecticut ''is already perceived as one of the most burdensome environments for starting a business,'' which can make it difficult to create good jobs there.
 ''I think the gap between the rich and poor is an issue for everyone,'' Ms. Foster said. ''Ultimately, our suburbs thrive only if our cities thrive.''
 State Senator William H. Nickerson, a Greenwich Republican, said that closing the income and education gaps in Connecticut is a critical issue, but he rejected the idea that raising taxes on the wealthy is a solution.
 Mr. Nickerson said that the 70,000 Connecticut households with the highest incomes now pay as much in state income tax as the other 95 percent of the state's households. ''It's an immensely top-heavy tax,'' he said, adding that increasing taxes on the rich simply ''won't remedy the problem.''
 Nancy Kail, who helped found the Greenwich Alliance for Education, a foundation that works to correct some inequities in public schools, said that the growing income gap ''translates into other gaps like achievement gaps in school or success gaps.''
 ''It's bad news for all of us, and in a town like Greenwich, which is resource-rich, it's shameful that it exists,'' Ms. Kail said. ''It's a community responsibility to do something about it.''
 Kristen Pavlik, 26, was the first in her family to attend college and is now a counselor at a domestic-violence shelter in Norwalk. She moonlights doing clerical work and tutoring. Ms. Pavlik said that living among ''the extreme wealth'' in Connecticut constantly tests her resolve: She must wait until midmonth, for her second paycheck, to buy groceries, and struggles to have $100 left after rent, utilities, gas and car payments. It helps that her mother, who lives nearby in Waterbury, often provides packages of frozen homemade meals.
 ''The thing that is stressful is it's not always easy for me to put things away in my savings,'' she said. ''God forbid I ever had an emergency.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: DISPARITY BETWEEN RICH AND POOR WIDENS: The concentration of income among those at the top has increased, and the gap between rich and poor has grown since the late 1980s, especially in Connecticut. (Source: Center on Budget Policies and Priorities) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); FAMILY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SKIING (73%); SUBURBS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); FOOD STAMPS (56%); CENSUS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



211 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SPG; Column 0; TechInnovation; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1466 words

HEADLINE: In Storing 1's and 0's, The Question Is $

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
LISTEN. Do you hear it? The bits are dying.
 The digital revolution has spawned billions upon billions of gigabytes of data, from the vast electronic archives of government and business to the humblest photo on a home PC. And the trove is growing -- the International Data Corporation, a technology research and advisory firm, estimates that by 2011 the digital universe of ones and zeros will be 10 times the size it was in 2006.
 But the downside is that much of this data is ephemeral, and society is headed toward a kind of digital Alzheimer's. What's on those old floppies stuck in a desk drawer? Can anything be read off that ancient mainframe's tape drive? Will today's hard disk be tomorrow's white elephant?
 Data is ''the natural resource for the Internet age,'' said Francine Berman, director of the San Diego Supercomputer Center at the University of California, San Diego, a national center for high-performance computing resources. But, she added, ''digital data is enormously fragile.'' It can degrade as it is stored, copied and transferred between hard drives across data networks. The storage systems might not be around or accessible in the future -- it is like putting precious information on eight-track tapes. 
 ''It's very important that we have an awareness that digital preservation has to be a part of our infrastructure,'' Dr. Berman said. But as the problem has been studied over the years, researchers have found that ''there's no one-size-fits-all model for preserving data in the digital age,'' she added. And there's an even bigger potential roadblock: how to pay for it. ''Economic sustainability,'' Dr. Berman said, is ''the gorilla in the room.'' 
 The National Science Foundation has begun a $100 million program over the next five years for an initiative, known as DataNet, that will help develop methods and technologies to keep the data we create. The goal is more than safeguarding the family's digital photo album: it's to preserve science and engineering data in ways that are ''open, extensible and evolvable'' -- in other words, not just to make sure that bits aren't lost but also to make them accessible and usable far into the future.
 At the same time, a second National Science Foundation-supported effort is finding ways to address the cost of saving digital memories. Dr. Berman leads this two-year task force with Brian Lavoie, a research scientist at the Online Computer Library Center, a nonprofit organization near Columbus, Ohio, that helps more than 60,000 libraries around the world find, share and preserve materials.
 Dr. Lavoie said the task force would outline ways that digital preservation could be used in diverse situations, with an eye to economy and sustainability. ''The common thing among all of them is that somebody has to pay for it,'' he said.
 For all their qualities, electrons can seem awfully feeble when compared with a good old-fashioned book. ''With the right kind of paper and the right kind of stewardship,'' Dr. Berman said, ''you can keep a book for 100 years or more.'' The interface is as simple as it gets: open the book and look at the page. 
 By contrast, in the hundred years that a book might have spent on the shelf, technology might have gone through ''dozens of generations of storage media,'' she said. 
 No one is suggesting that we try to hold on to every bit of data lingering in every obsolete corner. Choices must be made about the kind of material that should be kept fresh and accessible for 5 years, or 50, or 1,000. Census data? Put it on the ''forever'' drive, please. To-do lists? A little less crucial. 
 Dr. Berman identifies collections like the Protein Data Bank, run by the Research Collaboratory for Structural Bioinformatics. A repository of information on protein structures, it represents a research investment of more than $80 billion, said Dr. Berman, whose supercomputer center is a collaborating institution. That kind of data, which could lead to new understanding of the body's functions and to new drugs, is also a keeper. 
 Those in the digital-preservation field have talked for years about technologies that will achieve their goals. In a world where steeply falling hardware prices allow companies like Google to create vast server farms, preservationists have come up with ideas for electronic depositories, big and small, that businesses or government could build. 
 But the talk goes well beyond simple storage to true preservation, which ensures that information remains accessible. The plans therefore include making data retrievable with technologies like format migration, in which outdated files could be made readable in a more generic format, and computer emulation, in which one machine would pretend to be an older computer that could make sense of old files.
 All that work is going on, Dr. Lavoie said, but ''that misses the point'' that the task force was formed to examine: ensuring that the various technologies make economic sense. ''You can have the most elegant technological solution to the digital-preservation problem, but if there's no economics underpinning it, then there's no solution at all,'' he said.
 So while it is important to develop technologies that will make digital preservation simple and inexpensive, Dr. Lavoie said that the field was ''not about picking winners and losers at all.''
 He described an economic framework that would follow the course of the evolution of the computer-security market. In that case, private companies emerged to handle the needs of industry and government to protect against hacking, while others developed products and services that smaller organizations and even consumers could use. Some companies developed their own expertise and did the work in house as well. 
 The government spurred development, too, through tax breaks, monetary penalties for lax security practices in the financial industry and paying for security initiatives like the CERT center at Carnegie Mellon University, which monitors computer attacks. 
 ''The question, I think, is articulating that full menu of models'' so that the development of a preservation market will be encouraged, Dr. Lavoie said. ''That's something we're really missing now.''
 Margaret Hedstrom, associate professor at the School of Information at the University of Michigan, has been preaching preservation for 30 years, ever since she got a job organizing Wisconsin state records. But in a throwaway culture, it's been a hard argument to make stick.
 Now, she said, ''one of the things that's changing, finally, is people in places like the National Science Foundation are paying enough attention to this problem and understand its scale to start making investments that can make a difference.''
 The concern is about more than losing any particular set of data, Dr. Hedstrom said. ''The issue is about losing the ability, in a systematic way, of being able to preserve anything.''
 Yes, people know how to keep data, she said, but she added that it was just as important ''to preserve the right information'' well enough to keep it meaningful and accessible. 
 ''There might be 100 versions of a report on a company's hard drive, but which one was the final draft?'' Dr. Hestrom said. ''How was the underlying data used? Which architectural drawings of the many versions generated for a project were actually used to erect the building, and what was the chain of decisions that led to the brick-and-mortar result? 
 ''It's not that the bits aren't lying around,'' she continued. ''They may or may not be lying around.But being able to understand how they were collected,'' and being able to ascertain how the underlying data was used, makes the information useful. People think that because the cost of storage is dropping ''we can save everything,'' she said. ''But that's based on a naive view of what 'everything' actually is.''
 Efforts like the Internet Archive (archive.org), which trolls and collects billions of pages from the World Wide Web, are laudable but merely represent ''the surface Web,'' she said. The underlying data that enriches understanding isn't present in that kind of collection, she said. ''The Internet Archive is great for what it is,'' she said, ''but we're not going to solve the preservation problem with one small not-for-profit organization'' and volunteers. 
 She said she was thrilled, therefore, to see serious projects coming from the National Science Foundation and heartened that many approaches were being considered. ''If everybody's doing the same thing, we might all be making the same mistake,'' she said. 
 She added that she hoped the movement to hold on to our digital memories would finally succeed. ''It's taken longer than I would have liked,'' she said, ''but I think we're getting there.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DEDICATED: Margaret Hedstrom, above, of the University of Michigan has been devoted to data preservation for 30 years. Francine Berman, left, at the San Diego Supercomputer Center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.H6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DATA STORAGE DEVICES (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPUTATIONAL RESEARCH (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); FLOPPY DRIVES (70%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (72%); ON-LINE COMPUTER LIBRARY CENTER INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



212 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2290 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES April 9, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 MILITANT SHIITE CLERIC
 Postpones Big Baghdad Protest
 Moktada al-Sadr, the radical Shiite cleric, called off a huge demonstration in Baghdad planned for the fifth anniversary of the day American troops captured the capital. Mr. Sadr's strongholds have been encircled by Iraqi and American troops since heavy fighting last month in Basra and clashes in Baghdad. PAGE A13 
 REBELS AMBUSH AFGHAN WORKERS
 Taliban insurgents ambushed a group of road construction workers and their security guards, killing 18 of the guards and wounding seven in one of the worst attacks in Afghanistan in months. The ambush may signal an increase in violence with the arrival of warmer weather, when insurgent activity tends to increase. PAGE A10 
 VIOLENCE SPREADING IN ZIMBABWE
 Ten days after Zimbabwe voted and by most accounts defeated its autocratic president, Robert Mugabe, the election results have yet to be released. The mood of the country has darkened, with the opposition reporting attacks on its supporters, black youths driving white farmers off their land and officials arrested for vote tampering. PAGE A10 
 IRAN SAYS IT ADDED CENTRIFUGES
 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran announced a significant expansion of the country's plans to enrich uranium despite the United Nations Security Council's demand that it halt the program. Western experts cautioned that Iran's technical claims often exceed its grasp, and they have greeted such pronouncements by Iran with skepticism. PAGE A6 
 ISRAEL GLUM ON EVE OF ANNIVERSARY
 When the Israeli government budgeted about $28 million to observe the 60th anniversary of the founding of the state, it was probably hoping for an outpouring of national pride. Instead, the decade seems to be closing in a somber mood, with many Israelis evincing disillusionment with their leadership. PAGE A8 
 Pakistan May Reinstate Judge Soon A6 
 Former Israeli President Drops Plea A8 NATIONAL
 A PUSH FOR LONGER 
 Unemployment Insurance
 More unemployed workers exhausted their unemployment insurance before finding new jobs, and Democratic leaders and labor groups are pushing to extend unemployment benefits past the current limit of 26 weeks. PAGE A14
 DOCUMENTS ACCUSE SECT OF ABUSE
 Texas officials released documents after a raid by law enforcement officials on the compound of a polygamous sect. The affidavit says the group had a ''widespread pattern'' of physical and sexual abuse of children, which came to the attention of the authorities after a 16-year-old girl called a local family violence shelter to ask for help in leaving the ranch of the group. The group, The Fundamentalist Church of Latter-day Saints, is a breakaway sect not recognized by the mainstream Mormon church. PAGE A15 
 MISTRIAL IN CASE AGAINST CORONER
 Cyril H. Wecht, one of the nation's best-known forensic pathologists, was on trial in Pittsburgh facing 41 charges that he used his position as county coroner to benefit his private pathology practice. But after 11 days of jury deliberations, the federal judge presiding over the case declared a mistrial -- a decision that did not sit well with Dr. Wecht's lawyers. A new trial is set to begin in late May. PAGE A21
 HOW MUCH FARMLAND IS TOO MUCH?
 The farmers of south-central Mississippi want the Army Corps of Engineers to build two huge pumps between the Mississippi and Yazoo rivers, saying the flood control project could increase their crop yield. But the Environmental Protection Agency plans to veto the pumps -- which would degrade a wetland area about four times the size of Manhattan. At its core, the disagreement over the pumps -- which have a mythical place in the local culture -- is about how much farmland is too much, and how much of the land should be allowed to revert to woodlands. PAGE A14
 METRO 
 TEACHER ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURE
 Edited Out of New York State Law
 State lawmakers have agreed to bar class test scores from being considered when teacher tenure determinations are made, a rebuke to efforts by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and former Gov. Eliot Spitzer to hold teachers accountable by using student performance data. The move was excoriated by the Bloomberg administration. ''This is unconscionable,'' said Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein of New York. PAGE B1 
 A TEST RUN FOR THE FREEDOM TOWER
 Two mockups of the Freedom Tower, the 1,776-foot skyscraper that will be on the site of ground zero, were subjected to simulations of earthquakes, hurricanes and explosions at two sites in the West, as a test of the hardiness of the real thing. Because of fears that details of the tests would aid potential attackers, officials would not comment on the tests. ''The simple answer is, yes, it passed,'' a Port Authority official said. PAGE B3
 LAWMAKER CONVICTED OF BRIBERY
 State Assemblywoman Diane M. Gordon of Brooklyn was convicted of receiving a bribe for offering to help a developer acquire a parcel of city-owned land in her district in exchange for building her a free house in a gated community in Queens. Ms. Gordon will immediately lose her Assembly seat, which will remain empty until the general election in November. She faces up to 10 years in prison. PAGE B1
 BUSINESS
 RECESSION WORRIES DROVE RATE CUT,
 Federal Reserve Minutes Show
 Federal Reserve policy makers anticipated that the economy would shrink in the first half of they year, with some concerned about ''a prolonged and severe economic downturn,'' as they cut interest rates last month, according to minutes of the Fed's meeting. They also predicted home values would continue to drop. PAGE C1 
 NEW PLAN TO BUILD ALASKA PIPELINE
 ConocoPhillips and BP said they would jointly develop a natural gas pipeline from Alaska to feed the markets of the United States and Canada, as the companies soughtto break a long-standing deadlock over the state's vast gas reserves. ''It's a good day,'' the state's governor, Gov. Sarah Palin, said. PAGE C1 
 REPORT ON INTERNET INFRASTRUCTURE
 European researchers say that the United States' Internet infrastructure is one of the world's best and getting better. Their study, done on behalf of the World Economic Forum, found that the United States ranked fourth in the world behind Denmark, Sweden and Switzerland. Last year the United States was ranked seventh. PAGE C9 
 RUSSIA PLAN: NOT THE AMERICAN WAY
 A plan to privatize the world's largest electricity company is entering the home stretch, in spite of its complexity and the general hostility toward privatization in Russia. The plan's architects say they have learned how to privatize their electricity market by watching the best example of failure: the Americans and Enron. PAGE C3 
 DOWN IN THE VALLEY
 Start-up companies in Silicon Valley are hiring and spending more cautiously. Early-stage investors are also growing more frugal. An increasing number of young companies have withdrawn plans to go public. And job growth has slowed. In other words, the economic downturn appears to be taking its toll on the country's cradle of technology and innovation. PAGE C1 
 Seven Charged in Nymex Case C2 
 Funai to Make Philips TVs C9 
 Obituaries
 BISHOP S. C. MADISON, 86
 As a pastor, he led the United House of Prayer for All People, a black denomination with 1.5 million members and 150 branches in 25 states. During his tenure, he erected more than 100 sanctuaries nationwide, as well as multifamily housing, retail establishments and assisted-living facilities. PAGE A23
 WILLIAM KRAUSHAAR, 87
 An astrophysicist who theorized about the ultimate sources of cosmic radiation, he helped develop an early satellite that played a role in refuting the idea of a ''steady state'' universe. PAGE A23
 CULTURE
 PLANNING 'CHICK FLICKS,' AND HOPING TO LURE THE GUYS
 Despite the success of ''The Devil Wears Prada'' in 2006, the romantic comedy -- also less flatteringly known as the ''chick flick'' -- is a beleaguered genre, viewed as a marketplace trap with middling box office takes. Nora Ephron and P. J. Hogan, two of the most successful directors of the form, hope to change that with coming offerings based on popular books about women in their 20s that they also hope will lure men, as well. PAGE E1
 CHANGES FOR NEW YORK JAZZ FESTIVAL
 The JVC Jazz Festival New York is the city's biggest and longest-running such event, and many jazz fans worried what would befall the festival once the company that owned and booked it was sold. But when the lineup for this year's festival was announced, it seemed to edge closer to serious jazz -- thanks to the continued influence of its former owner, George Wein. PAGE E1
 NEVER TO OLD TO ROCK 'N' ROLL
 Stephen Holden says that it would be easy for the documentary ''Young@Heart,'' about a chorus of octogenarians singing songs by groups like the Ramones and Talking Heads, to be cloying and upbeat, but it resists the urge to become overly sentimental. ''The movie offers an encouraging vision of old age in which the depression commonly associated with decrepitude is held at bay by music making, camaraderie and a sense of humor.'' PAGE E1
 SPORTS
 RED SOX WELCOMED HOME
 With Great Expectations
 When the Red Sox awakened Tuesday, the good news was that they were in their own beds, finally home after a 19-day, three-country road trip. The bad news -- or, in Boston, the awful news -- is that they were in last place in the American League East. (They won on Wednesday, but didn't move up.)The season may be barely a week old, but hopes are high. PAGE D6 
 SAME OLD SAME OLD IN METS' LOSS
 The Mets led Philadelphia entering the late innings, blew it when the bullpen combusted and were doubtless left wondering just when in the name of Jimmy Rollins they are going to defeat the Phillies, who spoiled the final home opener at Shea Stadium by scoring five runs after the sixth to win, 5-2. It was the Mets' ninth consecutive loss to the reigning National League East champions. Not that anyone keeps track of such things. PAGE D1 
 DINING
 WINE BARS MULTIPLY,
 And Step It Up
 Xai Xai specializes in South African snacks and wines. Cafe Katja has an excellent list of Austrian wines and pretzels. Pata Negra serves Spanish wines, hams and cheeses. Many of the wine bars proliferating throughout New York are breaking the Italian mold, forging identities that distinguish them from the more mundane masses. PAGE F1 
 LOBSTER, ON THE COLLEGE MEAL PLAN
 As young palates grow more sophisticated and admissions become more competitive, many top colleges are paying attention to dining rooms as well as classrooms. ''I didn't apply to Bates, because, well, I ate there, the meal was not very good,'' explained one 17-year-old high school senior. PAGE F1 
 EMERGING TASTE FOR AGED CACHAcA
 There is a growing liking in the United States for wood-aged, artisanal cachaca, a Brazilian spirit made with sugar cane juice. At least 20 kinds of wood are used for aging, including jequitiba rosa, a Brazilian wood that imbues the drink with spicy notes. ''You are seeing the infancy of a category,'' said one importer, in Brazil to taste 800 different cachacas. PAGE F6 
 Frank Bruni: Chop Suey at Times Square F8 
 Tech Innovation
 BETTING AT WORK 
 To Improve the Odds
 Prediction markets are community Web tools like a blog or a wiki, and they allow employees of a company to make a wager with virtual currency on the sales of a new product or the chances that a project will be completed on time -- and the payoff is usually a modest prize for the most accurate forecast. Some large companies are using the tool to improve innovation by allowing more collaboration and feedback. PAGE H1 
 SAVING THE DIGITAL PAST
 Digital data is very fragile. It degrades over time, and the systems used to store that information might not be around or accessible in the future -- like putting precious information on eight-track tapes. Concern over the maintenance of digital information has prompted some scientists to consider ways to preserve the data people create -- from government archives to photos on people's computers. But how to fit the bill? PAGE H1
 Editorial
 IMMIGRATION, OUTSOURCED
 Not content to botch immigration policy all by itself, Congress has handed large parts of the job to others to mishandle. It gave the homeland security czar the czarist powers to overturn any law to seal the border. The agency is parceling out duties to a growing number of local police and sheriff's departments, raising an army of junior deputies in the war on illegal immigrants. PAGE A24
 THE TORCH AND FREEDOM
 Faced with huge protests as the Olympic torch makes its way to Beijing, China's government is said to be looking for a public relations firm to patch up its image before the 2008 Games in August. It would do a lot better if it stopped spreading lies about the Dalai Lama and stopped being an enabler to Sudan's genocide in Darfur. In other words, it should deliver on the pledge it made to the International Olympic Committee to respect human rights. PAGE A24
 ALBANY FAILS AGAIN
 One of the reasons that the New York State budget is late this year is because a piece of language was mysteriously inserted into the separate education budget bill. It bars school administrators from considering student test scores when determining whether a teacher deserves to get tenure. The Legislature should remove this absurd ban from the bill. PAGE A24
 Op-Ed
 MAUREEN DOWD
 Three potential commanders in chief went to the Hill on Tuesday to hear that, as Gen. David Petraeus said, ''the Champagne bottle has been pushed to the back of the refrigerator.'' The Democrats and Republicans had differing views on the ongoing war in Iraq, but one thing was clear: for now, hold the bubbly. PAGE A25

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (84%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (75%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); SEX OFFENSES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (70%); FORENSICS (70%); ELECTION FRAUD (68%); CENTRIFUGES (67%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (67%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (67%); FAMILY (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); CHILD ABUSE (65%); PATHOLOGY (62%); MISTRIAL (62%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); POLYGAMY (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



213 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 613 words

 BODY:
CONSERVATION PUSHED ASIDE Thousands of farmers are pulling out of a government conservation program, spurning guaranteed payments for the chance to cash in on the boom in crops like wheat and soybeans. 
 F.H.A.'S MORTGAGE WOES The Federal Housing Administration, the government agency that insures home loans for many first-time, minority and lower-income buyers, is grappling with financial woes, including the prospect of a deficit next year. [C1.] 
 A bipartisan effort in the Senate to aid homeowners in danger of foreclosure began to crumble as the White House threatened a veto. [A22.] 
 THE FED'S VIEW The financial downturn may be ''prolonged and severe,'' according to the Federal Reserve's meeting minutes. And now former Fed chiefs are beginning to weigh in. [C1.] 
 SILICON VALLEY'S SLOWDOWN There are signs that the economic downturn is taking its toll on Silicon Valley. [C1.] 
 PIPELINE FROM ALASKA ConocoPhillips and BP said they would build a gas pipeline from Alaska's North Slope to Chicago. [C1.] 
 HOURGLASS? WHAT HOURGLASS? European researchers say the Internet infrastructure of the United States is one of the world's best and getting better. [C9.] 
 TAKING IT PRIVATE Russia's complicated plan to privatize the world's largest power company is entering the home stretch. [C3.] 
 MACK IS STILL CHIEF John J. Mack, facing down an investor campaign to unseat him as the chairman of Morgan Stanley, was re-elected by an overwhelming margin. [C3.]
 FILE YOUR RETURN, OR ELSE The Justice Department is going after ''tax defiers,'' who are people who seek ''to deny and defy the fundamental validity of the tax laws.'' [C3.] 
 NEW JOB FOR EX-CHIEF The former chief of Caremark Rx, who orchestrated its sale last year to CVS, is getting into investment banking. [C4.] 
 DETAILS OF CHARGES A leaked document in France is providing details of accusations of insider trading against executives of EADS, including Thomas Enders, the head of Airbus. [C2.] 
 PHILIPS BOWS OUT Royal Philips Electronics will no longer manufacture flat-panel televisions for sale in the United States or Canada, another sign of a shake-out in the market. [C9.] 
 THOSE BLEEPING ADVERTISERS! An increasing number of advertisers are winking at the contentious issue of content regulation by using a number of bleeping sounds in commercials. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C3.] 
 SKI RESORT'S TANGLED TALE The Peaks Resort looms large over the tiny ski town of Telluride, Colo. But behind its facade is a tangled tale of the hotel that couldn't shoot straight. [C6.] 
 MARKETS SLIDE ON REPORTS Wall Street retreated after Alcoa and Advanced Micro Devices issued disappointing reports. [C11.] ALTERNATIVE TO PROSECUTION The Justice Department has put off prosecuting more than 50 companies suspected of wrongdoing in recent years, relying instead on so-called deferred prosecution agreements. [A1.] 
 UNEMPLOYMENT AID Proposals in Congress to extend unemployment benefits beyond their usual limit of 26 weeks are getting a broader hearing, because of the stumbling economy. [A14.] 
 A $7 BILLION INFUSION Washington Mutual said that it would receive $7 billion in new capital from a group led by the private equity firm TPG. [C4.] 
 AIRPLANE REINSPECTIONS American Airlines said that it expected to cancel as many as 500 flights to reinspect its fleet of 300 MD-80 jetliners to make sure a wiring bundle in the wheel wells was stowed properly. [C7.] 
 IOMEGA ACCEPTS TAKEOVER The Iomega Corporation said that it had accepted an increased cash takeover offer from EMC and would drop a plan to buy a unit of the Great Wall Technology Company of China. [C11.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); VETO (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (72%); SKIING (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (72%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); TAX LAW (69%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (67%); RESORTS (67%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (66%); INSIDER TRADING (64%); SKIING FACILITIES (60%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (52%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (83%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); AIRBUS SAS (55%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (53%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (52%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (52%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (50%); ALCOA INC (50%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (83%); MS (NYSE) (57%); CVS (NYSE) (53%); PHIA (BIT) (52%); PHIA (AMS) (52%); PHG (NYSE) (52%); EAD (PAR) (52%); EAD (MCE) (52%); AMD (NYSE) (50%); AMD (FRA) (50%); AAI (ASX) (50%); AA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (53%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (53%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (50%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (50%)

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (87%) ALASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



214 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2158 words

HEADLINE: Wine Bars Grow Up and Squeeze In

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
IT was a Wednesday night around 7:30 and Casellula, a small, boxy wine bar in Clinton, was filling up. Patrons packed the seats at the small polished wood bar and the inexpensive wood tables, trading sips of wine, sharing beautifully composed cheese selections and passing plates back and forth.
 No sharing for me, though. My open sandwich, made with morcilla, a delectable Spanish blood sausage, layered over multicolored roasted peppers, was too good to sacrifice a bite. I washed it down with a gutsy aglianico del Vulture, a nice combination, and hungrily eyed an intriguing dessert selection, French toast pudding, made with applewood-smoked bacon and spiced maple syrup. 
 No question about it, wine bars are no longer what they used to be. Throughout the restaurant-saturated precincts of New York, wine bars have been proliferating like latter-day Starbucks, purveying their wines by the glass and simple bites with typically homespun charms. 
 At last count, nywinebarguide.com, a Web site devoted to tracking the city's wine bars, had found 131 in the city, although Ray Kasbarian, its chief executive, conceded that the number was out of date. 
 Most of them seem stamped out of the now ubiquitous Italian mold, offering platters of salumi and cheese, panini and a dozen glasses of red and white. 
 But many, like Casellula, have stepped it up, forging identities that distinguish them from the more mundane masses.
 Xai Xai, on West 51st Street, a block away from Casellula, specializes in South African snacks served with South African wines. It, too, is often packed. 
 Cafe Katja on the Lower East Side has an excellent list of Austrian wines and bites like soft, fat pretzels served with two mustards and a tangy cheese spread. 
 Pata Negra in the East Village serves Spanish hams -- glistening jamon Iberico is among the world's great delicacies -- cheeses and tidbits, with Spanish wines, of course.
 Gottino in the West Village has an Italian theme, but its creative menu goes way beyond the salumi-and-cheese places, with enticing dishes like sweet-and-tart beets, cooked in parchment and bathed in a bright horseradish sauce.
 Paradoxically, wine can sometimes seem like an afterthought. Too many wine bars have inconsequential selections, as dull as another plate of stale prosciutto. But the good ones always offer something to intrigue even the most jaded palate.
 At Cavatappo, a storefront on the Upper East Side barely bigger than a breadboard, the selections on a recent visit included a couple of earthy lambruscos, and while the nibbles are largely Italian, the wines include the superb Gaia Thalassitis, from the Greek island of Santorini. 
 Solex, a cavernous French-themed place in the East Village, offers wines from lesser-known appellations like Arbois and Savoie, along with good selections from Austria and Germany. 
 Black Mountain Wine House in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, has an eclectic assortment that includes Montevertine, the superb Tuscan producer, and R. Lopez de Heredia, a singular Rioja. 
 Well-known chefs and restaurateurs have jumped in. Jody Williams, chef at Morandi in the West Village, is the chef and a partner in Gottino. Marco Canora and Paul Grieco of Hearth and Insieme have opened Terroir in the East Village. Blue Ribbon has a wine bar on Downing Street. The biggest name of all of them, Daniel Boulud, has opened Bar Boulud, a wine bar more in name than style.
 With so many wine bars opening, standing out from the crowd has resulted in some unexpected blends of genre. Ayza on West 31st Street bills itself as a wine and chocolate bar. The sign for Buceo 95 on West 95th Street reads ''Vins/Tapas.'' And Brian Keyser, an owner of Casellula, insists, ''We don't think of ourselves as a wine bar; we're a cheese bar.''
 Where wine bars were once a novelty in New York, their very unremarkableness today indicates how they've become an accepted part of the New York landscape, local hangouts like the corner bar or the coffee spot. It was different 25 years ago when the opening of a wine bar here was seen as a sign of cultural arrival.
 Bartenders tended to preface each glass with extended lectures on winemaking techniques or soil content. With great self-satisfaction wine bars would spotlight their gadgets, like the Cruvinet, which supposedly kept open bottles fresh by enveloping them in nitrogen, hence avoiding oxidation. 
 Consumers were encouraged to order wines in academically inspired flights, with names like Three Sides of Cabernet Sauvignon or A Study in Riesling. They seemed aimed more at teaching customers that wine was gravely important rather than satisfying them.
 Most of these early places lasted a few years and closed. A new wave would open and the cycle would repeat.
 It wasn't until the late 1990s that a different kind of wine bar took root in New York. Relaxed, unpretentious Italian places like 'Ino on Bedford Street and Bar Veloce and Il Posto Accanto in the East Village familiarized New Yorkers to words like panini, tramezzini and quartino. 
 There was no proselytizing, no lectures. They simply served wine and let customers set the pace. 
 The low-key vibe and the easy prices made these places appealing to consumers regardless of their wine orientation, especially to women who wanted to avoid the testosterone-driven pickup scene at bars. That is still true today. 
 But far more crucial to the latest wave of wine bar openings has been the soaring cost of opening a restaurant in New York City.
 ''Economics is the overriding factor,'' said Mr. Grieco, an owner of Hearth and Insieme, who just opened Terroir on East 12th Street. ''A wine bar can fit into a footprint that a restaurant couldn't. The cost of real estate, the cost of labor, all the equipment that you need to get a restaurant up and going: a wine bar allows an aspiring restaurateur entree without breaking the bank.''
 Less than a block from Terroir, my friend Rafael Mateo opened Pata Negra in February. Mr. Mateo had long nursed a desire to open a restaurant while he worked as a schoolteacher in East Harlem. Finally in 2006 he made the break, first overseeing the wine program at La Nacional on West 14th Street, then managing Ostia, a tapas bar in Greenwich Village. 
 But he thirsted for a place that would be entirely his own. A full restaurant, though, would overstep his bank account.
 ''Unless you're a known chef or have financial backers, you're more out of your mind opening a restaurant than becoming a schoolteacher,'' he said. 
 Working within his small budget he found a storefront with an affordable lease on East 12th Street. Gas ranges and the venting they require are an enormous expense, so he restricted himself to an electric convection oven and a sandwich press. No more than three people, including himself, work at any one time. 
 His vision was based on the small Barcelona bars he fell in love with years ago, specializing in, as he put it, ''beautiful sliced ham, beautiful cheese and great wine.''
 ''In the first month I broke even, which any restaurant owner will tell you is a dream,'' he said. ''That's beyond successful to me, and in March I doubled what I did in February, which is great.''
 Mr. Keyser of Casellula had also wanted to open his own restaurant. Eight years in fine dining establishments like Chanterelle and the Modern had fatigued him, but he too had to rein in his ambitions to fit a realistic Manhattan budget. 
 ''A full kitchen was not reasonable,'' he said. ''A lot of square feet was not reasonable.'' 
 The potential for savings is not lost on restaurant entrepreneurs like Jim Mamary, who owns six restaurants in Brooklyn, including Patois, Pacifico and Pomme de Terre. He opened Black Mountain Wine House with the idea of eliminating as many expenses as possible, so he has no gas, no heat except the fireplace, one dishwasher and no prep cooks. 
 ''It's amazing how you can control your costs,'' he said.
 While wine is no longer treated as pedantically as before, the educational impulse can still be felt. Most wine bars typically pour tastes of several wines so customers can decide which to order, and they are poised to offer information as requested. 
 Social barriers are even broken as complete strangers offer one another tastes from their glasses. Meanwhile, proprietors like Mr. Grieco of Terroir are simply becoming more creative in how they dispense information.
 ''I think we've become a lot more subversive in our application of knowledge to guests,'' he said, with more enthusiasm than can be contained in Terroir's 500 square feet. Plans for T-shirts of wine heroes, wine bingo and wine merit badges spill out in rapid succession. ''If you don't offer education I don't think you're a wine bar,'' he said.
 While most wine bars are concentrated in outlying neighborhoods, the mystery, said Tyler Colman, who follows wine bars on his blog drvino.com, is not why the Lower East Side may be the wine bar capital of America, but why there are so few wine bars in Midtown Manhattan.
 ''You would think people would be spilling out from offices,'' he said. ''As profitable as they may be, there are limits. Obviously, selling coffee is more profitable.'' 
 Recipe: Beets With Horseradish Cream Adapted from Jody Williams Time: About 1 hour, plus overnight refrigeration
 1 pound small or medium red beets, washed and stemmed
 1 bottle dry red wine 
 1 cup sliced shallots
 2 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed
 2 bay leaves
 3 sprigs of thyme
 Cracked pepper
 Salt 
 1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil
 1 piece fresh horseradish
 1 cup creme fraiche.
 1. Place beets in a saucepan, cover with water and boil until soft, about 45 minutes. Drain beets, let them rest until cool enough to handle, then peel and dice them. Place in bowl.
 2. While beets are cooking, pour wine into another saucepan, add shallots, garlic, bay leaves, thyme and cracked pepper. Boil over medium-high heat until reduced by half, about 20 minutes.
 3. Pour wine marinade over beets, add salt to taste and drizzle with extra virgin olive oil. Stir, cover and refrigerate overnight.
 4. The next day, heat oven to 400 degrees. Place beets and marinade in center of a 12-inch square of foil or parchment. Fold foil or parchment over beets and crimp edges together to seal. Bake 12 minutes, until beets are warm. 
 5. While beets bake, grate 2 tablespoons of fresh horseradish and mix with creme fraiche and a pinch of salt. Serve beets warm with creme fraiche on the side.
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Walnut Pesto Crostini Adapted from Jody Williams Time: 15 minutes
 1 cup shelled walnuts 
 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese
 1 garlic clove, peeled and crushed
 3 sprigs of thyme, cleaned
 Salt
 Splash of sherry vinegar
 1/3 cup extra virgin olive oil
 2 tablespoons minced sun-dried tomatoes
 1 loaf country bread, sliced. 
 1. In food processor, coarsely grind walnuts, cheese, garlic, thyme, salt and vinegar. Stir in oil and tomatoes. 
 2. Grill or toast bread. While hot, top each slice with a heaping teaspoon of pesto. 
 Yield: 12 servings.
 Recipe: Beets With Horseradish Cream Adapted from Jody Williams Time: About 1 hour, plus overnight refrigeration
 1 pound small or medium red beets, washed and stemmed
 1 bottle dry red wine 
 1 cup sliced shallots
 2 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed
 2 bay leaves
 3 sprigs of thyme
 Cracked pepper
 Salt 
 1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil
 1 piece fresh horseradish
 1 cup creme fraiche.
 1. Place beets in a saucepan, cover with water and boil until soft, about 45 minutes. Drain beets, let them rest until cool enough to handle, then peel and dice them. Place in bowl.
 2. While beets are cooking, pour wine into another saucepan, add shallots, garlic, bay leaves, thyme and cracked pepper. Boil over medium-high heat until reduced by half, about 20 minutes.
 3. Pour wine marinade over beets, add salt to taste and drizzle with extra virgin olive oil. Stir, cover and refrigerate overnight.
 4. The next day, heat oven to 400 degrees. Place beets and marinade in center of a 12-inch square of foil or parchment. Fold foil or parchment over beets and crimp edges together to seal. Bake 12 minutes, until beets are warm. 
 5. While beets bake, grate 2 tablespoons of fresh horseradish and mix with creme fraiche and a pinch of salt. Serve beets warm with creme fraiche on the side.
 Yield: 4 servings.
 Recipe: Walnut Pesto Crostini Adapted from Jody Williams Time: 15 minutes
 1 cup shelled walnuts 
 1/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese
 1 garlic clove, peeled and crushed
 3 sprigs of thyme, cleaned
 Salt
 Splash of sherry vinegar
 1/3 cup extra virgin olive oil
 2 tablespoons minced sun-dried tomatoes
 1 loaf country bread, sliced. 
 1. In food processor, coarsely grind walnuts, cheese, garlic, thyme, salt and vinegar. Stir in oil and tomatoes. 
 2. Grill or toast bread. While hot, top each slice with a heaping teaspoon of pesto. 
 Yield: 12 servings.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A NEW THIRST: At Gottino in the West Village, creative dishes complement the wine list. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX DI SUVERO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F1)
A NEW SCENE: Wine bars are popular with women, like those at Terroir, top left, Epistrophy, above, and Cafe Katja, center left. Mark Sheska, left, of Terroir. Below, menu checking at Gottino, and its spread, bottom left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX DI SUVERO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, GABRIELE STABILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (94%); WINE (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); CHEESE (89%); PORK (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%); GERMANY (79%); GREECE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



215 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Death Looms for a Long-Planned Flood-Control Project

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: STEELE BAYOU, Miss. 

 BODY:
Seven decades of hydro-engineering have transformed the lower Mississippi Delta from wetlands to dry fields of cotton and soybeans. Levees and canals funnel runoff from hundreds of thousands of acres here to a huge set of metal gates that sit across Steele Bayou.
 The debate over whether the Delta's transformation was an engineering feat or environmental folly winds up here, too. 
 For the farmers of south-central Mississippi, who see the changes as a triumph over nature, one job remains for the Army Corps of Engineers: building two huge pumps near the Steele Bayou gates. They believe the $220 million flood control project could increase their crop yield on marginal land. That, in turn, would increase their federal subsidies.
 The Environmental Protection Agency has notified the corps that it intends to veto the pumps -- the first time in more than a decade that the agency has used this unilateral power. 
 The project's opponents and supporters agree it would destroy or degrade at least 67,000 acres of wetlands, four times the size of Manhattan. The area affected, an E.P.A. official wrote to the corps earlier this year, represents ''some of the richest wetland and aquatic resources in the nation -- a breeding and spawning ground for fish and a haven for migratory fowl.'' 
 But supporters of the pumps have not given up. ''The pumps,'' said Ray Mosby, the editor of the Deer Creek Pilot, a weekly paper in Rolling Fork, ''are part of the cultural fabric here.''
 The project, to be built between the Mississippi River and slow-flowing Yazoo River near the hamlet of Redwood, is one most farmers in the area have counted on since the Army Corps of Engineers first proposed it in 1941, when the impact of the destructive Mississippi flood of 1927 still resonated and Congress made flood control the corps' main job. Even in their absence, the pumps are a palpable presence in this empty landscape, which is so flat that elevations are measured to the inch. ''The pumps here have an almost mythic quality,'' Mr. Mosby said. 
 ''People here have been led to believe that if we get the pumps this is suddenly going to become a land of milk and honey,'' he added. ''They don't exactly know how that is, mind you, but they just know it's true.''
 Underneath the pumps argument is a more basic question: What is the best use for this land? How much should be farmed? How much should revert to woodlands?
 One of the staunchest opponents of the pumps is T. Logan Russell, the executive director of the Delta Land Trust. Mr. Russell argues that too much woodland and wetland was sacrificed to agriculture four decades ago and that the pumps would only protect land that never should have been cleared. With federal encouragement, farms spread eastward from the rich soils close to the Mississippi River when soybean prices rose sharply in the 1960s. 
 ''The low-lying, clay-ey soil there is prone to flooding,'' Mr. Russell said. 
 But increasing farmland increases the opportunity for federal price supports. Some of the nation's biggest recipients of the supports are in the lower Delta. 
 Phillips Farms, with offices in Holly Bluff, about 40 miles north of Vicksburg, took in $8.6 million in federal farm subsidies from 2003 to 2006, -- mostly related to cotton, according to data from the federal Department of Agriculture compiled by the Environmental Working Group. John Phillips III, the proprietor, said that from 2001 through 2006 his farm operations lost more than $2 million despite the subsidies 
 Not all the farmers are in that league, however, and not all residents are farmers. The two counties of the lower Delta, Issaquena and Sharkey, are losing population because of the difficulty in making ends meet. 
 Issaquena County's population has fallen by 26 percent since 2000, and now stands at 1,675, with most residents living north of the flood-prone areas. Neighboring Sharkey County has 5,571 people, down 16 percent in the last seven years. Farms are consolidating. But large or small, farmers still want to farm as much land as is profitable.
 Sitting in the county office building in Mayersville, Larry White, an Issaquena County supervisor, said emphatically: ''They are saying these are wetlands we are pumping water out of. They are not wetlands. These are farmlands.''
 Allowing acres to revert to marshy forests, Mr. White said, ''takes a toll on the farms, on the people who work on farm or depend on it -- the seed company, the equipment company, even down to the grocery.''
 With some anger, he concluded, ''I know the environment has to be protected, but it's senseless to let the county suffer and fall because of other people's environmental agendas.''
 Mr. Phillips of Phillips Farms, said that a failure to build the pumps, after all the other hydro-engineering, would be ''like building a bridge 90 percent of the way across the river, but they won't let you get it on to the ground.''
 The talk of broken promises goes against the facts, said Melissa Samet of the environmental group American Rivers. ''The fact that the farm economy hasn't raised the Delta out of poverty in so many years is telling,'' Ms. Samet said. 
 Farming, particularly on the more marginal land, is profitable in the Delta because of federal price supports. The $220 million price tag of the pumps, she said, is ''a whole lot of money to spend on a project that's going to destroy the environment.'' 
 This area of the lower Delta is like the end of a bathtub near the drain. When the waters of the Mississippi River reach flood stage, where they are now, they back up into the Yazoo River. As the Yazoo reverses its flow, the gates in the large drainage structure here close, plugging the bathtub and keeping out the Yazoo backwater.
 But when the gates are closed, runoff from the upper Delta does not drain into the Mississippi. The water trapped behind these big gates is what the proposed pumps are supposed to remove, sending it over the levee and into the Mississippi watershed
 Opponents of the pumps argue that the flooding problem has already been solved by the construction of new levees. Several administrations in Washington, Democratic and Republican, have been cool, if not hostile, to the pumps. But they were backed by the powerful Mississippi Congressional delegation, including the recently retired Senator Trent Lott and Gov. Haley Barbour, a former Republican national chairman. 
 The Mississippi Board of Levee Commissioners is now seeking to preserve the option of building the pumps. It wants the Vicksburg office of the Army Corps of Engineers to withdraw its pump proposal, so there may be nothing for E.P.A. to veto. 
 But the sense that the pumps are not going to be built is evident in the tone, if not the words, of supporters like West Higginbotham, an aide to Senator Thad Cochran, Republican of Mississippi. Mr. Higginbotham said that news of the veto ''came as a little bit of a shock to us,'' adding that the veto process was now ''well under way.'' 
 Trudy Fisher, the executive director of the Mississippi Department of Environmental Quality, has written the environmental agency seeking formation of an interagency task force to find another solution for flooding in the lower Delta. Peter Nimrod, the chief engineer of the Mississippi Levee Board, still has hope. He says the corps' current proposal represents 25 years of compromises, including plans to start pumping only after floodwaters reach 87 feet, or seven feet higher than originally planned. On Tuesday, the floodwaters behind the gates reached 89.7 feet.
 Such compromises are not enough for the federal Fish and Wildlife Service, which is concerned about protecting the habitat of an endangered species, like the pondberry plant, and of spawning fish and migrating birds.
 Clarke Reed, a leading Republican who now questions the pumps, thinks that the economic future of the lower Delta could be built around hunting and tourism. But time must pass. Fighting for the pumps, Mr. Reed said, has become second nature.
 ''Right now,'' he said, ''it's a fight about the fight.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steele Bayou near the hamlet of Redwood, Miss., where the Army Corps of Engineers planned to build two large pumps as part of a flood control project.
 The groundwork has been done for flood control pumps to be installed near the Steele Bayou Drainage Structure. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATE MEDLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Steele Bayou is part of the lower Mississippi Delta. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WETLANDS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); FLOOD CONTROL (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RIVERS (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); COTTON FARMING (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); ARMIES (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



216 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: For Many, A Boom That Wasn't

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
How has the United States economy gotten to this point?
 It's not just the apparent recession. Recessions happen. If you tried to build an economy immune to the human emotions that produce boom and bust, you would end up with something that looked like East Germany.
 The bigger problem is that the now-finished boom was, for most Americans, nothing of the sort. In 2000, at the end of the previous economic expansion, the median American family made about $61,000, according to the Census Bureau's inflation-adjusted numbers. In 2007, in what looks to have been the final year of the most recent expansion, the median family, amazingly, seems to have made less -- about $60,500. 
 This has never happened before, at least not for as long as the government has been keeping records. In every other expansion since World War II, the buying power of most American families grew while the economy did. You can think of this as the most basic test of an economy's health: does it produce ever-rising living standards for its citizens?
 In the second half of the 20th century, the United States passed the test in a way that arguably no other country ever has. It became, as the cliche goes, the richest country on earth. Now, though, most families aren't getting any richer.
 ''We have had expansions before where the bottom end didn't do well,'' said Lawrence F. Katz, a Harvard economist who studies the job market. ''But we've never had an expansion in which the middle of income distribution had no wage growth.''
 More than anything else -- more than even the war in Iraq -- the stagnation of the great American middle-class machine explains the glum national mood today. As part of a poll that will be released Wednesday, the Pew Research Center asked people how they had done over the last five years. During that time, remember, the overall economy grew every year, often at a good pace.
 Yet most respondents said they had either been stuck in place or fallen backward. Pew says this is the most downbeat short-term assessment of personal progress in almost a half century of polling.
 The causes of the wage slowdown have been building for a long time. They have relatively little to do with President Bush or any other individual politician (though it is true that the Bush administration has shown scant interest in addressing the problem).
 The slowdown began in the 1970s, with an oil shock that raised the cost of everyday living. The technological revolution and the rise of global trade followed, reducing the bargaining power of a large section of the work force. In recent years, the cost of health care has aggravated the problem, by taking a huge bite out of most workers' paychecks. 
 Real median family income more than doubled from the late 1940s to the late '70s. It has risen less than 25 percent in the three decades since. Statistics like these are now so familiar as to be almost numbing. But the larger point is still crucial: the modern American economy distributes the fruits of its growth to a relatively narrow slice of the population. We don't need another decade of evidence to feel confident about that conclusion. 
 Anxiety about the income slowdown has flared at various times over the past three decades. It seemed to crescendo in the first half of the 1990s, when voters first threw George H. W. Bush out of office, then, two years later, did the same to the Democratic leaders of Congress. Pat Buchanan went around preaching a kind of pitchfork populism during the 1996 New Hampshire Republican primary -- and he won it.
 Then came a technology bubble that made everything seem better, for a time. Record-low oil prices in the 1990s helped, too. So did the recent housing bubble, allowing families to supplement their incomes by taking equity out of their homes. 
 Now, though, we appear to be out of bubbles. It's hard to see how the economy will get back on track without some fundamental changes. This, I think, can fairly be considered the No. 1 economic project awaiting the next president.
 Fortunately, there is an obvious model waiting to be dusted off. The income gains of the postwar period didn't just happen. They were the product of a deliberate program to build up the middle class, through the Interstate highway system, the G. I. Bill and other measures.
 It's easy enough to imagine a new version of that program, with job-creating investments in biomedical research, alternative energy, roads, railroads and education. On the campaign trail, Hillary Clinton, John McCain and Barack Obama all mention ideas like these.
 But there is still a lack of strategic seriousness to the discussion, as Bruce Katz of the Brookings Institution notes. After all, the United States spends a lot of money on education already but has still lost its standing as the country with the highest college graduation rate in the world. (South Korea and a couple of other countries have passed us, while Japan, Britain and Canada are close behind.) 
 The same goes for public works. Spending on physical infrastructure is at a 20-year high as a share of gross domestic product, but too much of the money is spent on the inefficient pet programs championed by individual members of Congress. Pork barrel spending does not add up to a national economic strategy.
 Health care and taxes will have to be part of the discussion, too. Dr. Ezekiel Emanuel of the National Institutes of Health pointed out to me that a serious effort to curtail wasteful medical spending would directly help workers. It would spare them from paying the insurance premiums and taxes that now cover that care.
 The tax code, meanwhile, has become far more favorable to high-income workers at the same time that they -- and they alone -- have received large pretax raises. That doesn't make much sense, does it?
 It's a pretty big to-do list. But it's a pretty big problem. Since the economy now seems to be in recession, and since recessions inevitably bring their own pay cuts, my guess is that the problem will look even bigger by the time the next president takes office. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: STAGNATING WAGES: During the most recent economic expansion, incomes remained essentially stagnant for most families. In every other prolonged economic expansion in the last 50 years, incomes rose significantly. (Sources: U.S. Census Bureau, Jared Bernstein (2007 estimate)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); EMPLOYMENT (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); CENSUS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



217 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: At Age 17, Ski Resort Has a Troubled Past (and Present)

BYLINE: By PATRICK O'GILFOIL HEALY and TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: TELLURIDE, Colo. 

 BODY:
Ever since it sprouted in the San Juan Mountains of southwestern Colorado 17 years ago, the Peaks Resort has loomed large over this tiny ski town. With about 170 rooms, the Peaks is the region's largest hotel, a major employer and a crucial asset in luring the conventions and wealthy tourists who fuel the economy.
 But behind its sunset-colored facade is a tangled tale of the hotel that couldn't shoot straight. It went bankrupt a year after opening, has been bombarded by lawsuits and has stymied owner after owner in their struggles to turn a profit in Telluride's seasonal economy.
 The Blackstone Group, the once high-and-mighty private equity company that has watched its profits decline because of the credit squeeze, acquired the Peaks when it bought Wyndham Properties in 2005 and has tried to sell it for about $45 million. But since the hotel went on the market last June, two potential buyers, including Fairmont Hotels and Resorts, have signed contracts only to walk away without closing the deal. 
 In recent months, the once-hot investment market for luxury hotels has evaporated. Not a single top-tier hotel traded during the last quarter, said Patrick Ford, the president of Lodging Econometrics, a research company in Portsmouth, N.H. Hotel prices have declined about 15 percent since the summer. 
 Last month, Blackstone entered into yet another contract, with a team led by Adam C. Hochfelder, a New York real estate investor, now 36, who made a big splash at a tender age as an owner and manager of a large portfolio of Midtown Manhattan office towers, including the Helmsley Building, which straddles Park Avenue. But Mr. Hochfelder's track record is as problem-plagued as the Peaks is.
 Beginning in 2004, Mr. Hochfelder's reputation began to plummet, as he defaulted on millions of dollars worth of loans and became mired in litigation with business associates and relatives. The Manhattan district attorney's office began an investigation into his borrowing practices that is still active, a spokeswoman, Barbara Thompson, said last week. 
 Despite these setbacks and more recent difficulties, Mr. Hochfelder has continued to try to stake out a role as a major real estate player. 
 In 2006, Michael Belfonti of Hamden, Conn., bought a hotel now known as the Westin Aruba Resort and brought in Mr. Hochfelder as a noncontrolling minority partner. The hotel failed when the new owners tried to keep it open while doing a complete renovation. Last year, the owners defaulted on their loans, putting the mezzanine lender, Petra Capital Management, in control of the 478-room hotel, according to court documents. 
 Mr. Hochfelder, who is described even by people who are no longer speaking to him as a bright and engaging man with a winning smile, has been distributing a flier for his new company, HP Hotel Partners, that is made up of photographs of ''selected projects'' that include the Westin Aruba Resort and other properties that he no longer owns or never did.
 Among the latter is the Sagamore, a resort dating to 1883 that occupies 72 acres along Lake George in the Adirondack Mountains in upstate New York. David Boyd, the hotel's managing director, said that the owners of the Sagamore negotiated with Mr. Hochfelder last year about selling the hotel but never concluded a deal. But that has not stopped Mr. Hochfelder from claiming otherwise, Mr. Boyd said. 
 ''It is our understanding that he is telling people he owns the Sagamore,'' he said. Last week, the hotel's lawyers threatened Mr. Hochfelder with legal action, Mr. Boyd said. Mr. Hochfelder said he did not want to comment publicly on the Sagamore matter.
 Mr. Hochfelder's partner in the Telluride venture is Keith Schwebel, also a New Yorker and the founder of a chain of youth hostels known as Banana Bungalow. In an e-mail message, Mr. Schwebel said that it would cost more than $45 million to renovate the hotel, which has not been refurbished since it opened. Mr. Hochfelder added, ''We have plans to create the best retail, lobby and guest experience in North America.''
 Blackstone has spent more than $1 billion to upgrade the 35 five-star hotels that it consolidated under its LXR management company after acquiring them in the purchase of Wyndham and other hotel companies. These resorts include major destinations like the Boulders in Scottsdale, Ariz., and El Conquistador Resort and Golden Door Spa in Fajardo, P.R. But the Peaks did not quite mesh with the LXR portfolio, hotel specialists said.
 With 2,200 residents, Telluride is tiny and harder to get to than mountain towns like Aspen or Vail, and its average hotel occupancy rate is about 50 percent. Crowds arrive for skiing and summer festivals, but disappear in the fall and spring.
 Bruce Blum, one of the original developers of the Peaks, said the hotel was built to be a condominium-hotel or a luxury vacation club. ''It was never meant to be a straight resort hotel, due to the seasonality,'' he said. ''The property has always wanted to be a resort condominium since then, and nobody has executed that plan.'' 
 Telluride was still a fledgling ski town 20 years ago when plans for the hotel were conceived. The ski area was building Mountain Village, an assortment of luxury homes and chalet condominiums in the hills above the town, and a large upscale hotel was crucial to the plans.
 The ski area provided the land to build the hotel, said Ron Allred, a former owner of the resort. In turn, the hotel developers agreed to build a full-service hotel, spa, tennis courts and swimming pools to draw wealthy tourists. ''It was a matter of desperation; we needed a hotel,'' Mr. Allred said. ''We had no place for people to stay.''
 But trouble started early. In 1991, planners and inspectors reported -- too late to have an effect -- that the newly constructed $60 million hotel, then known as the Doral, had been built 40 feet higher than county building codes allowed. Residents criticized its character and design. 
 A program to sell time shares in the new hotel drew hundreds of local investors, but soon collapsed into a litigious debacle. Developers canceled contracts and were sued by 385 angry buyers, and ultimately abandoned the time-share structure.
 A year after opening, the hotel went bankrupt, defaulted on its loans and was subsequently sold on the steps of the county courthouse. The only bidder was the hotel's major creditor, Sumitomo, the Japanese company.
 The Peaks, as it came to be known, went through a series of owners before it landed in Blackstone's hands. A year ago, Blackstone began a $60 million refurbishment program, but the work was halted in June when it looked as if the hotel might be sold. An undisclosed number of rooms remain unusable.
 Last weekend, Mr. Hochfelder and Mr. Schwebel lost one of their backers. Still, Neil Teplica, a managing director of the Greenwich Group, a New York mortgage brokerage firm, said he was helping to arrange debt and equity financing for the project. He declined to provide details.
 Another aborted sale that leaves the resort in limbo would be certain to disappoint local residents, although beds, jobs and tax revenue will be generated by two new hotels now under construction in Mountain Village, the 146-room Capella and the smaller Lumiere.
 Blackstone is unlikely to lower its price to get a deal done, said Thomas P. McConnell, a Cushman & Wakefield broker who has sold three hotels for Blackstone. 
 ''My experience is they go into these transactions with a pretty clear strategy, and they hold to it pretty well,'' Mr. McConnell said. ''They feel no compulsion to sell anything.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
BUSINESS DAY
 An article on the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about efforts to sell the Peaks Resort in Telluride, Colo., overstated the hotel's financial problems in the early 1990s. While the hotel indeed defaulted on its loans and was sold a year after opening, it did not file for bankruptcy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Adam C. Hochfelder, left, is trying to buy the Peaks Resort, above. Michael Belfonti worked with him on the Westin Aruba Resort. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, TOP, NICK WOLCOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, PATRICK MCMULLAN AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (91%); HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SKIING FACILITIES (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); LITIGATION (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); SALES & SELLING (68%); PRICE CHANGES (65%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (71%); FAIRMONT HOTELS & RESORTS INC (56%); FAIRMONT RAFFLES HOTELS INTERNATIONAL INC (56%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (71%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (71%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (56%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



218 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Russia Close to Privatizing Huge Electricity Producer

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
A plan to privatize the world's largest electricity company is entering the home stretch, successfully it seems, in spite of its complexity and the general hostility toward privatization in today's Russia. 
 The plan's architects say they have raised $33.9 billion by creating a simple and obvious investment opportunity: the chance to sell heat and light to one of the world's coldest and darkest countries. Moreover, the Russians say they have learned how to privatize their electricity market by watching the best example of failure: the Americans and Enron.
 The Russian state electricity monopoly, Unified Energy Systems, will be disbanded on June 30 after spinning off dozens of subsidiaries and floating a portion of shares in those companies on the Russian stock market, then selling the balance at auctions. 
 To attract buyers and investors, Russian officials promise they will also liberalize electricity tariffs for industrial consumers by next January.
 ''From a market point of view, it's very sexy,'' said James R. Fenkner, chairman of Red Star Management, a hedge fund based in Russia. ''You are going, all of a sudden, from a system of government-controlled inputs and outputs to a market-based system with more potential for profit.'' 
 Red Star Management has invested in hydroelectric plants in Russia. 
 By Tuesday, Unified Energy had raised 797 billion rubles (more than $33.9 billion), in spite of gloomy market conditions, according to the company spokesman, Stas Degtyarev. Though the company sells mainly to other utilities rather than portfolio investors, shares in newly privatized Russian electricity companies are now popping up in portfolios and on the books of hedge funds around the world. 
 Known by their Russian abbreviations as O.G.K.'s and T.G.K.'s, which stand for wholesale generating companies and territorial generating companies, respectively, these stocks are nearly impossible for nonspecialist investors to understand, yet already represent a large slice of the world's electricity market. And when the Unified Energy privatization is completed in July, it will have opened an electricity market about one-fifth the size of America's to investors. 
 To be sure, enthusiasm has been damped not only by the complexity of the securities, but by memories of President Vladimir V. Putin's reversal of some oil industry privatizations, and concerns that the same fate could await electricity investors. 
 In addition, many Russian power plants also generate heat for residential buildings -- a market where rates will not be liberalized. Residential heat is transported as steam or hot water in great underground pipes that flow beneath Russian cities and into apartment blocks. The heat is sold as a service to municipalities, at margin-crimping rates. Generally, electricity privatization is fiendishly complex, and it has failed spectacularly before. But the Russians say they have learned from others' misfortune, especially Enron. 
 ''What happened in California, though it was unfortunate, helped us design restructuring,'' Sergei K. Dubinin, the chief financial officer of Unified Energy Systems and a former Russian central banker, said in an interview. ''We said we can't do it that way.''
 The case for investing rests on a scarcity of electricity as Russia's economy grows and the belief that prices will explode after liberalization. Russia is the fourth-largest electricity market in the world, behind the United States, China and Japan. 
 The deals are low profile, but high priced. O.G.K.-1, for example, which owns power plants in European Russia and the Ural Mountain region, is expected to fetch about $7 billion at auction on April 17. On Monday, the Russian billionaire Mikhail D. Prokhorov bought 32 percent of T.G.K.-4, with plants in smaller cities near Moscow, for $500 million at auction. 
 The gas-powered electricity plants have become acquisition targets for European utilities like Enel of Italy and E.On of Germany; both have bought plants with intentions to invest money and expertise in energy savings in order to balance a projected rise in the price of natural gas in Russia. 
 For their part, portfolio investors have tended to bid up the price of power plants before large sales, then exit the stocks, making these shares more volatile than the average equity in the Russian stock market. Shares in the power and heat company T.G.K.-5, for example, dropped 40 percent since its spinoff from Unified Energy.
 Some investors have bought Russian hydroelectric capacity that taps the currents of the wide northern rivers. The cost of production, of course, will not rise with the price of gas. This was the approach taken by Red Star, Mr. Fenkner's hedge fund. But the government may increase a specialized water tax it charges these plants. 
 One outcome of Russian electricity privatization is likely to be a shift from natural gas to relatively cheaper, but less-clean-burning coal as plants seek savings -- indeed, a Citigroup investor note has even recommended investors buy coal-fired plants.
 One looming risk, however, is that Gazprom, the gas monopoly, will raise domestic prices for natural gas before the electricity market is fully liberalized, squeezing the profits of the electricity companies and their new owners. 
 And, as one investor who did not want to be identified because his company deals with Gazprom, noted, ''Gazprom is far more powerful than Enron ever was.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATIZATION (92%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); UTILITY PRIVATIZATION (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); AUCTIONS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%)

COMPANY: UNIFIED ENERGY SYSTEMS OF RUSSIA OAO (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



219 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: in justice shift, corporate deals replace trials

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In 2005, federal authorities concluded that a Monsanto consultant had visited the home of an Indonesian official and, with the approval of a senior company executive, handed over an envelope stuffed with hundred-dollar bills. The money was meant as a bribe to win looser environmental regulations for Monsanto's cotton crops, according to a court document. Monsanto was also caught concealing the bribe with fake invoices.
 A few years earlier, in the age of Enron, these kinds of charges would probably have resulted in a criminal indictment. Instead, Monsanto was allowed to pay $1 million and avoid criminal prosecution by entering into a monitoring agreement with the Justice Department.
 In a major shift of policy, the Justice Department, once known for taking down giant corporations, including the accounting firm Arthur Andersen, has put off prosecuting more than 50 companies suspected of wrongdoing over the last three years. 
 Instead, many companies, from boutique outfits to immense corporations like American Express, have avoided the cost and stigma of defending themselves against criminal charges with a so-called deferred prosecution agreement, which allows the government to collect fines and appoint an outside monitor to impose internal reforms without going through a trial. In many cases, the name of the monitor and the details of the agreement are kept secret.
 Deferred prosecutions have become a favorite tool of the Bush administration. But some legal experts now wonder if the policy shift has led companies, in particular financial institutions now under investigation for their roles in the subprime mortgage debacle, to test the limits of corporate anti-fraud laws.
 Firms have readily agreed to the deferred prosecutions, said Vikramaditya S. Khanna, a law professor at the University of Michigan who has studied their use, because ''clearly it avoids a bigger headache for them.''
 Some lawyers suggest that companies may be willing to take more risks because they know that, if they are caught, the chances of getting a deferred prosecution are good. ''Some companies may bear the risk'' of legally questionable business practices if they believe they can cut a deal to defer their prosecution indefinitely, Mr. Khanna said. 
 Legal experts say the tactic may have sent the wrong signal to corporations -- the promise, in effect, of a get-out-of-jail-free card. The growing use of deferred prosecutions also suggests one road map the Justice Department might follow in the subprime mortgage investigations. 
 Deferred prosecution agreements, or D.P.A.'s, have become controversial because of a medical supply company's agreement to pay up to $52 million to the consulting firm of John Ashcroft, the former attorney general, as an outside monitor to avoid criminal prosecution. That agreement has prompted Congressional inquiries and calls for stricter guidelines. 
 Defenders of deferred prosecutions say that they have been too harshly criticized lately and that they play a crucial role in allowing the government to secure the cooperation of a company while avoiding the time, expense and uncertainty of a trial. The agreements, government officials say, also avoid the type of companywide havoc seen most acutely in the case of Arthur Andersen, the accounting firm that was shuttered in 2002 after being indicted in the Enron scandal. The firm's collapse threw 28,000 employees out of work. 
 At a Congressional hearing last month, Mr. Ashcroft defended the agreements, saying that they avoided ''destroying entire corporations'' through criminal indictments. ''Prosecutors understand that a corporate indictment can be a corporate death sentence,'' he said. ''A deferred prosecution can avoid the catastrophic collateral consequences and costs that are associated with corporate conviction.''
 Paul J. McNulty, a former deputy attorney general who put new guidelines in place in 2006 for corporate investigations at the Justice Department, said in an interview, ''There's a fundamental misapprehension with D.P.A.'s to think that they're a break for the company.''
 With the imposition of fines and an outside monitor, ''the reality is that for the government, it gets pretty much everything without the difficulty of going forward with an indictment,'' said Mr. McNulty, who is now in private practice. ''I think companies are beginning to wonder whether they ought to fight more, because they are pretty burdensome.''
 But critics of the agreements question that assertion. Charles Intriago, a former federal prosecutor in Miami who specializes in money-laundering issues, said that huge penalties, like the $65 million fine for American Express Bank International in 2007, were ''peanuts'' compared with the damage posed by a criminal conviction. The company was accused of failing to enact internal controls to guard against laundering of drug money and other reporting problems.
 The agreements were once rare, but their use has skyrocketed in the current administration, with 35 deals last year alone by the Justice Department, lawyers who follow the trend said. Banks, financial service companies and auditors have frequently entered into such agreements, including recent ones involving Merrill Lynch, the Bank of New York, AmSouth Bank, KPMG and others. Beyond financial crimes, deferred agreements have been used in lieu of prosecuting companies -- though not individuals -- for export control violations, obscenity violations, Medicare and Medicaid fraud, kickbacks and environmental violations. 
 In general, such agreements result in companies acknowledging wrongdoing by not contesting criminal charges, but without formally admitting guilt. Most agreements end after two or three years with the charges permanently dismissed. 
 Monsanto, for example, while not admitting guilt, agreed to abstain from further violations of bribery laws. In an e-mail message, Lori Fisher, a spokeswoman, said that Monsanto had cooperated with the Justice Department and fully complied with the agreement, leading to deferred charges being permanently dismissed in early March.
 The trend has led to increased speculation about how the Justice Department might use the agreements in investigations against financial companies in the mortgage lending scandal, which has become a top law enforcement priority for the department as the economy has withered.
 The Federal Bureau of Investigation has 17 open inquiries into accusations of corporate fraud in connection with the subprime scandal, and Neil Power, who leads the bureau's economics crime unit, said in an interview that the number was certain to grow. The F.B.I. has publicly identified only one target -- the Doral Financial Corporation, a mortgage company based in Puerto Rico whose former treasurer has already been indicted -- but major companies like Countrywide Financial, once the nation's biggest mortgage lender, have also been reported to be under criminal investigation.
 Mr. Power said the investigations were a reflection of the ''environment of greed'' that allowed companies to package mortgages into securities they sold to investors without sufficient documentation of the borrower's ability to repay. One line of criminal inquiry focuses on whether bond companies gave accurate information to investors.
 ''What we're looking at,'' he said, ''is the fact that they may be performing accounting fraud.''
 Justice Department officials would not discuss the role that deferred prosecution agreements may play in their ultimate handling of the mortgage investigations. One official said it was ''way too early'' to begin speculating about such possibilities. 
 But the prospect already has some experts in the field worried.
 Michael McDonald, a former Internal Revenue Service investigator in Miami who is a private consultant and has given seminars on deferred prosecutions, said such deals ''should not be on the board'' in the subprime mortgage investigations. 
 ''In light of what this did to our economy, people shouldn't just be able to write a check and walk away,'' Mr. McDonald said. ''People should be prosecuted for it and go to jail.''
 Timothy Dickinson, a lawyer in Washington who was the outside monitor for Monsanto, agreed. Corporate lenders caught up in the mortgage scandals should not assume they will be given the chance for a deferred prosecution, Mr. Dickinson said, and the Justice Department should ''insist on a guilty plea'' rather than offering a deal.
 ''It's a tool that will remain to be used by prosecutors in appropriate circumstances, but not every circumstance,'' he said. ''It depends how egregious the conduct is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Ashcroft, left, with Timothy Dickinson, a lawyer who has served as a monitor in deferred prosecution agreements for the Justice Department, at a House hearing last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS COOK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INDICTMENTS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); LAWYERS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (90%); MEDICAL SUPPLY CO (61%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (90%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (90%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (90%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



220 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: From Clinton, Evocation of Nostalgia in a Crucial State

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
This 30-second television advertisement for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, is one of five that the campaign began running Tuesday in Pennsylvania. (The other four advertisements include one with the state's governor, Edward G. Rendell, one with Mayor Michael Nutter of Philadelphia, a third about the economy, and the last, a general message commercial in Spanish.) 
 PRODUCER The Clinton media team.
 THE SCRIPT In a voice-over, Mrs. Clinton says: ''This is me in Scranton, where my father was raised and my grandfather worked in a lace mill. Every August, we'd pile into our car and head to our cottage on Lake Winola. There was no heat or indoor shower -- just the joy of family. I was raised on pinochle and the American dream. I still have faith in that dream -- it's just been neglected a little. We all need to dream it again, and I promise we will. I'm Hillary Clinton, and I approve this message.'' 
 ON THE SCREEN The spot begins with a grainy black-and-white shot of a 3 1/2 -year-old Hillary Rodham, scampering toward the camera and smiling. The words ''Hillary 1950'' are etched in the corner of the screen. It then cuts to an image of Hugh S. Rodham, Mrs. Clinton's grandfather, followed by a shot of the mill where he worked, then the white clapboard Rodham family cottage. An image appears of Mrs. Clinton's mother, in a trim white suit and hat, leading her daughter down the cabin stairs. The initial shot of Mrs. Clinton as a toddler returns, then fades and is replaced by a picture of Mrs. Clinton standing on a stage at a campaign rally, clutching a microphone and beaming. At the end, the words ''a President who will be strong for us'' appear on screen.
 ACCURACY There is little to verify beyond the biographical details Mrs. Clinton presents. Voters in Pennsylvania, particularly in northeastern city of Scranton, have heard about Mrs. Clinton's childhood summers there and her grandfather's blue-collar background. 
 SCORECARD The Clinton campaign is playing up Mrs. Clinton's personal side while also using her family history to make a direct connection to Pennsylvania voters. The video scenes were recently unearthed by an elderly Scranton neighbor of the Rodhams, and have a soft, antique, intimate feel. For the older voters who have proven to be Mrs. Clinton's most ardent supporters, the advertisement also offers a nostalgic trip back to the days when men wore fedoras and little girls wore shiny patent leather shoes. With images of a shuttered mill and a modest cabin, the advertisement should also appeal to the working-class voters that Mrs. Clinton is depending on to deliver her a victory in the state's primary on April 22.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY (76%); GOVERNORS (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); LACE & WARP KNIT FABRIC MILLS (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (61%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); ED RENDELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



221 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Democrats See Economic Fault Lines in War and Trade

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It is not easy to draw a straight line from the slumping economy to the war in Iraq and a trade deal with Colombia, but Democrats are trying to connect those dots. 
 Party strategists say that President Bush's opposition to additional economic recovery proposals and his strong support of the trade pact provide an opportunity to portray Mr. Bush and his Republican allies, notably Senator John McCain, as being insensitive to the economic struggles of Americans while spending billions each month on Iraq. 
 ''There is an economic argument to be made,'' said Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota. ''This administration has not done what it should for the middle class.'' 
 Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Tuesday that he was preparing to link the war spending directly to the economy at home by using a pending bill to finance combat in Iraq as a proxy for a second stimulus measure. He plans to try to attach to the Iraq money Democratic favorites like an extension of unemployment benefits, a summer jobs program and perhaps local building projects.
 ''That will be war,'' promised Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina. 
 Mr. Bush and Congressional Republicans have long insisted that war spending bills not be converted into a grab-bag of domestic spending projects.
 If it is war, it might be one that Democrats are willing to wage. They increasingly see the economy and the conflict in Iraq merging into a singularly potent political issue come November, given consistent public opposition to the war and an increasingly bumpy economy. 
 ''The good news is the president has endorsed the stimulus package,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. ''The bad news is, it is for Iraq.''
 But Democrats must be careful. Any effort to overly politicize the economy could backfire since voters say they prefer that the two parties cooperate. And trying to add too much domestic spending to the war money could prompt another showdown with the president on Iraq spending, and Democrats have yet to win one of those. 
 Yet Democrats were privately not all that unhappy when the White House on Monday dismissed the idea of a second stimulus plan, saying the first round of initiatives had not had a chance to work. 
 Party officials said the administration position allowed Democrats to sharpen their differences with Republicans since the earlier proposal, to send checks this spring to millions of Americans, was developed with significant bipartisan fanfare. Democratic Congressional leaders are scheduled to be at the White House on Wednesday afternoon and plan to renew their call for a sequel to the stimulus bill. It is a call that seems likely to be rejected again. 
 And the White House's strong criticism on Tuesday of a housing bill headed toward a vote in the Senate complemented earlier criticism of a mortgage bailout by Mr. McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, tying him and Mr. Bush together as like-minded opponents of too much government intervention in the home loan crisis. 
 Mr. Bush's push for a free-trade pact with Colombia figures into this political picture as well. Democrats believe his advocacy for more free trade could enable them to step up their contention that Republicans are too quick to give away American jobs, a position that has resonated with Democratic voters in the presidential primaries so far. 
 If nothing else, Democrats would like to use the trade agreement sought by Mr. Bush as leverage to win concessions on the war spending bill or other favored legislation. But officials said the tone of a phone call Monday between Mr. Bush and Speaker Nancy Pelosi on the trade deal was not a harbinger of cooperation. 
 Republicans dismiss Democratic efforts to tie the country's economic problems to the war as unconvincing and flawed. They say Democrats are simply changing tack since they cannot easily criticize the military buildup of the past year in Iraq. Both sides acknowledge that it has produced some military results, though not the political gains in Iraq that were initially advertised as the rationale for the escalation.
 And Republicans say Democrats are misreading the economic impact of the war. From their perspective, a destabilized Middle East could end up roiling the American economy even more by driving up gasoline prices beyond current high levels.
 Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, said, ''While American consumers are dealing with spiking fuel prices today, these costs would pale in comparison with those they would face if radical jihadists or the Iranian regime gained the upper hand in the Middle East.'' 
 The exact role of the war in the current economic decline is in dispute, with many arguing that there is no direct correlation. The war has added to the national debt, however, and absorbed federal money that could have been devoted to domestic priorities. 
 Rather than debate the escalation in Iraq with Gen. David H. Petraeus, Democrats would prefer to spend the coming months driving home these concepts: a continued investment of enormous sums of money in Iraq while needs at home go unattended, the idea that Iraqis pay less than Americans for gasoline and the thought of the government in Baghdad building a surplus while the United States struggles with federal debt.
 On Tuesday, Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, said, ''The Iraqi government has billions of dollars sitting in bank accounts collecting interest, while American taxpayers are being forced to foot the bill.''
 That is a bit of economics that Democrats think could pay politically.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HARAZ N. GHANBARI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); HARRY REID (58%); AMY KLOBUCHAR (57%); RAHM EMANUEL (57%); RICHARD BURR (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



222 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: A Silicon Valley Slowdown

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL and BRAD STONE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Housing prices in Silicon Valley remain defiantly high. New BMWs and Saabs cruise Highway 101. But for the first time there are signs that the current economic downturn is taking its toll on the country's cradle of technology and innovation.
 Job growth has slowed, start-up companies are hiring and spending more cautiously, and early-stage investors who nurture the start-ups with money and expertise are growing more frugal. 
 Most of the investors, entrepreneurs and innovators who build companies in the Valley do so with the hope of taking them public or selling them -- the rainmaking opportunities that people here call exits. But with gloom pervading the financial markets and the business climate, the exits are hard to find. 
 During the first three months of the year, only five companies backed by venture capital investors went public on Wall Street, the National Venture Capital Association said last week. That is down from 31 in the fourth quarter of last year, and is roughly the same level as at the nadir of the dot-com bust. 
 There was also a sharp falloff in the acquisition of start-up companies by bigger corporations. Microsoft is making noise with its effort to take over Yahoo, but elsewhere things are quieting down. There were only 56 acquisitions in the first three months of the year, down from 83 in the fourth quarter.
 With those options increasingly off the table, investors must spend money and time nurturing -- or altogether salvaging -- existing companies rather than building new ones.
 ''We are holding expenses very tight,'' said Jim Breyer, managing partner at Accel Partners, a venture capital firm. The firm is an investor in Model N, a software company that recently withdrew its registration to go public because of the inhospitable market conditions. Mr. Breyer said the company would wait until the fall, at the earliest, to try again.
 ''It's anybody's guess how long the downturn will last,'' Mr. Breyer said. 
 If it lasts through this year, he said, ''it will be far more than an inconvenience for all companies.'' The dried-up market for public offerings and acquisitions is affecting not just the atmosphere of innovation but also the lifestyle of its participants.
 ''Less cash coming into the Valley means less cash to purchase homes, and go out to nice dinners, spend on consumer products and go on vacations,'' said Hans Swildens, founder and principal of Industry Ventures, an investment firm that buys stakes in start-up companies that need infusions of cash. 
 ''The general sentiment in Silicon Valley is that we're not yet there, but the reality is that we are,'' Mr. Swildens said. ''It's already started.''
 The region feels as if it is on the cusp of a mood shift. On the one hand, its denizens say they feel fortunate to be working in a segment of the economy and living in a region that has been hurt far less than other parts of the country. They also express stubborn confidence in the inexorable shift to the Internet and the role that Valley technology companies will play in that transition.
 And they assert that they are not feeling anything like the pain that followed the collapse of the dot-com bubble, which led to big job losses, an exodus of talent, a plunging commercial real estate market and a significant drop in investment in start-up companies.
 But having assiduously clawed its way back from the dot-com bust, the Valley is again facing some tough conditions. At the area's blue chip companies, stock performance has turned grim as growth has slowed. Google's stock has fallen around 31 percent this year; Apple is down 21 percent. The Nasdaq composite, an index with a major technology focus, is down 11.4 percent this year. 
 Among the shares of venture-backed companies that went public in the last year, only 28 percent are above the offering price. That compares with around 50 percent in a typical year and 70 percent in strong market conditions, according to the National Venture Capital Association.
 New companies are hitting roadblocks on their way to the capital markets. Upek, a company in Emeryville, Calif., that makes computer chips and software used for fingerprint recognition, registered to go public last May. It then began trying to drum up investor enthusiasm, and was making progress. But on March 4, it withdrew its registration.
 On Wall Street ''there was suddenly no more appetite for growth companies,'' said Eric Buatois, a general partner in Sofinnova Ventures, an early-stage investment firm that backed the start-up. 
 Upek is profitable already, but without the cash infusion from the offering, Mr. Buatois said, it will delay new products, limit the number of projects it takes on and hire less aggressively.
 ''You shrink your expansion plans,'' Mr. Buatois said.
 Upek has 30 employees in California and another 80 or so worldwide; it has manufacturing in Singapore, hardware development in Italy and software development in Prague. It also does 80 percent of its sales overseas.
 Upek's global nature, which is shared by a growing number of start-ups in Silicon Valley, is cutting both ways in the economic downturn. On the positive side, the overseas sales are insulating the company from some of the tough economic conditions in the United States.
 However, because it has workers outside the country, it is paying a hefty and unexpected price as a result of the dollar's decline.
 ''The biggest impact is the free fall of the dollar,'' Mr. Buatois said. He said costs to the company have risen 10 percent to 20 percent in the last three quarters. ''But the price of the product is not going up.''
 The withering national economy also appears to be having an impact on the amount of money that early-stage investors are putting into start-ups.
 In 2007, very early-stage investors -- so-called angels -- put $26 billion into start-ups, according to the Center for Venture Research at the University of New Hampshire. That figure represents no increase from the year before, after large increases every year since 2003, when the Valley emerged from the bust.
 ''Since the climb back, this is the first flat year,'' said Jeffrey Sohl, the center's director. He said the money was being spread over more start-up companies, which means the average amount going into individual start-ups from angels has fallen to $450,000, from around $500,000.
 ''It's not a crisis in confidence, but it is a more cautious approach,'' Mr. Sohl said of the perspective of investors, whom he said may also have less to invest in new companies because the market's decline has diminished their capital. 
 The caution is likely to hinder job growth. The Center for the Continuing Study of the California Economy projects there will be 10,000 new jobs in the region this year, down from 17,700 last year, and 25,000 in 2006
 Another seemingly unrelated but potentially crucial financing issue has come from the paralysis in the market for so-called auction-rate securities. These are investments that individuals and companies have used to park money for short periods, with the knowledge that they could quickly retrieve the funds. Many venture capitalists have relied on such investments but are finding they are unable to get their money out, which in turn is threatening their ability to pay bills at their start-ups. 
 But the most troubling specter for the tech economy has been the stalled stock market and the impact it has had on the ability of investors and entrepreneurs to go public for personal profit and to raise money to continue to build their businesses. 
 At the end of the fourth quarter, there were 60 venture capital-backed companies registered to go public. By the end of the first quarter, 38 were registered. And some of those have since withdrawn their registrations, said Mark G. Heesen, president of the National Venture Capital Association. 
 ''That's how quickly it turned,'' Mr. Heesen said, adding: ''It is not good news, and we are not trying to sugarcoat it at all.''
 There is a trickle-down impact, he said. ''For Silicon Valley, it means fewer start-ups funded, fewer entrepreneurs funded, fewer employers that you hope to be the next major employer.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (pg.C1)
 CHART: HARD TIMES FOR TECHNOLOGY STOCKS: After a burst in late 2007, technology stocks have skidded this year, falling 18.1 percent since late December while the S. & P. 500 has declined 8.8 percent. (Source: Bloomberg) (pg.C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (79%); HOME PRICES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (77%); FINANCING ROUNDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (53%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



223 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: The Defeat of Congestion Pricing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''$8 Traffic Fee for Manhattan Fails in Albany'' (front page, April 8):
 The defeat of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's revolutionary plan to limit the role of the automobile in the nation's largest city will mean an annual loss of $13 billion to the city's economy in lost time and wasted fuel, the loss of $354 million in federal mass transit aid, including 367 new buses, as well as improved air quality. 
 What has been lost is a cleaner, quieter, quicker city. The plan was unpopular especially outside of Manhattan. The New York State Legislature, unlike the City Council, was apparently unwilling to look at the long-term benefits, but focused instead on the short-term politics. 
 We have lost a historic opportunity for the people of this city. Who knows when it will come again?
 Peter H. Kostmayer President, Citizens Committee for New York City New York, April 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Bravo to the Assembly for batting down Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's congestion pricing plan. It's difficult to see this as anything but a tax on the lower-income citizens. If the goal was to reduce traffic in the city, a monetary charge is one of the most inequitable means of achieving it, but I don't recall any discussion of alternatives. 
 Mr. Bloomberg began his tenure as mayor with admirable, egalitarian action cutting city expenditures across the board. No group was spared, not even education. But beyond his fiscal sensibilities, the rest of his administration has been marred by changes that seem to cater to his personal ideals -- intolerance for smoking, fatty food and now traffic.
 This most recent endeavor is the most troubling because it so clearly favors the upper classes (yes, there are classes in America).
 Of all the annoyances associated with living in New York City, traffic is already the most avoidable. The alternative is the good old trusty M.T.A. It's available to all citizens, tourists and business travelers, rich or poor. And if the wealthy would like to keep public transportation beneath them, the helicopter is there to serve. 
 Aaron D. Ipsa New York, April 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As I waited for the subway in this morning's rush hour (and had to let three express trains pass before one arrived with enough room for new passengers) and waited for my crosstown bus (the M34, rated among the slowest in the city), I could not help but reflect on the damage wreaked upon our city as a result of the petty egos of members of the New York Assembly. 
 They claim to care about global warming, pollution, congestion and the residents of New York. What they really care about is open to question. After refusing to vote on this important issue in the open, it is clear that democracy is not among their core beliefs. 
 Barbara D. Paxton New York, April 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I am deeply troubled by Albany's standing in the way of New York City's plan for congestion pricing. But as I rode my bicycle to work this morning across the Brooklyn Bridge, all but flying past commuters trapped in their cars in traffic, I took heart in realizing that the failure of vision in rejecting congestion pricing is the car commuters' loss more than mine. They remain trapped in a mid-20th-century dream of freedom that has turned into a nightmare. 
 New York City must push ahead reapportioning its street space for people rather than cars with dedicated bus lanes and bicycle paths separated from traffic running into the core of the business district. Rising gas prices and perhaps a carbon or gas tax as well as more limited parking will have to suffice to discourage driving. 
 Gary Eckstein Brooklyn, April 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''$8 Traffic Fee for Manhattan Fails in Albany'' (front page, April 8) and ''Mr. Silver Does It Again'' (editorial, April 8):
 Yes, congestion pricing would have been good for mass transit and the environment. But instead of pointing fingers and playing the blame game, let's carry out the good ideas that the mayor and the City Council can agree on without an Albany vote or federal aid.
 Let's send a message to the suburbanites shopping on weekends with higher meter fees and permits for Manhattan residents. Let's send a message to the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, and introduce car-free weekends in his district on Mott Street and then expand them to other crowded pedestrian destinations like Bleecker Street in the West Village and Fifth Avenue. Let's close enough east-west streets to through traffic to efficiently connect the West and East Side bikeways with each other and the middle. 
 Big ideas are great, but the accumulation of lots of little traffic-congestion mitigation ideas will be as good or better. It's the least we can do. 
 Edward Rosenfeld New York, April 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Bloomberg Tactics Were Highhanded on Traffic Plan, Lawmakers Say'' (news article, April 8):
 Although there are myriad reasons congestion pricing failed to pass, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver's secrecy among the most prominent, the claim that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's attitude was imperious is not without merit. His Honor basically scolded foes of congestion pricing without offering much in the way of inducements. 
 Mr. Bloomberg might want to learn a lesson his success in business should have taught him: one attracts more with honey than with vinegar.
 Adam Stoler Bronx, April 8, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER AND MARIA HOEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (75%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (75%); TRAINS (71%); AIR QUALITY (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



224 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Legislators Balk at Tying Teacher Tenure to Student Tests

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and JEREMY W. PETERS; Nicholas Confessore and Trymaine Lee contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
In the latest rebuke to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's agenda, state lawmakers have decided to bar student test scores from being considered when teacher tenure determinations are made. 
 Legislators said the move was the final detail negotiated as part of the budget, which they expect to complete on Wednesday. It was a setback to efforts by the mayor and former Gov. Eliot Spitzer to hold teachers accountable by using student performance data, and a boon for the teachers' unions, which hold enormous influence over the political process in the capital. 
 The new language being prepared for the state law says that for the next two years student scores will not be considered in decisions on teachers' tenure; in the meantime, a commission is to be created to study the issue. 
 The move was denounced Tuesday night by the Bloomberg administration. 
 ''I am dismayed that the State Legislature would even consider tying the hands of principals and school districts as they decide who gets lifetime job security,'' said Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein. ''This is unconscionable. Lawmakers should do all they can to ensure every student has a good teacher. I urge our lawmakers to vote no tomorrow. Our children deserve better.''
 The development was another sign that the fledgling administration of Gov. David A. Paterson, a Democrat, could be a rocky one for the mayor. The new governor was unable to rally support for the mayor's congestion pricing plan, which would have charged drivers to enter Manhattan below 60th Street. While Mr. Paterson supported the measure, he could not persuade Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver or other Assembly Democrats to bring the measure to the floor, and it was pronounced dead without a vote on Monday. 
 The mayor and his staff members were seething when it became known on Tuesday that the teacher accountability measure in state law was being revised. Lawmakers and legislative aides said they expected to return to work Wednesday morning and vote on the final piece of the budget -- education financing and taxes -- and it was the tenure issue, they said, that held it up. 
 ''That is the last piece,'' Mr. Silver said. ''And I think there's, you know, some good compromise language we're considering right now.'' He added, ''I think everybody will be comfortable with it.''
 He did not discuss details of the compromise, but a draft of the relevant portion of the budget obtained by The New York Times changes language added to state law last year while Mr. Spitzer was governor. 
 That section said teachers would be evaluated for tenure based on, among other things, an ''evaluation of the extent to which the teacher successfully utilized analysis of available student performance data.''
 The newer language says that ''the teacher shall not be granted or denied tenure based on student performance data.''
 The matter is to be turned over to a study commission for further review. 
 ''They're just reviewing final language on the tenure bill, new language that the school boards have signed off on,'' said John McArdle, a spokesman for the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, the state's top Republican. ''I think it works. Once that's resolved, they'll print the bills.''
 Pressure from unions weighed heavily in the process, and particularly with Senate Republicans. 
 ''From very early on, the Assembly and the governor understood what was at issue here,'' said Richard C. Iannuzzi, president of New York State United Teachers. ''It may have taken us a little bit longer to get the Senate to understand, but I think they do.''
 He added, ''Student assessments are designed to assess students, not teachers.'' 
 Though the bills were still being drafted, the last unresolved pieces of the state's budget seemed in place by Tuesday night. Legislative officials said that agreements had been reached about increases to various state taxes and fees, one of the issues that had stymied budget negotiations over the last several weeks. 
 Overall, officials said, spending of all funds in the roughly $122 billion budget would increase by 4.9 percent, nearly twice the rate of inflation, assuming that the final budget materializes as expected Wednesday morning. While the increase would be less than what Mr. Spitzer originally proposed in January, many budget critics and the governor himself have said the budget is bloated. 
 The state's $1.50 cigarette tax will go up $1.25 more, but many of the taxes and fees that were first proposed by Mr. Spitzer will not be included. The proposal to quadruple the state's motor vehicle insurance fee to $20 has been dropped, as has the plan mockingly called the ''crack tax,'' which would have taxed drug dealers on drugs confiscated by the authorities, and a plan to eliminate the tax cap on fuel purchases. 
 In a victory for Senate Republicans, some of the tax increases will expire after three years, Mr. McArdle said. Mr. Paterson had fought to make the new tax and fee increases permanent because he said the state's debt rating with credit agencies would suffer if they were only temporary.
 The likelihood that coming financial estimates from the state comptroller will show a further deterioration of the state's financial picture put more pressure on the Legislature to avoid last-minute spending increases.
 On April 15, the comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli, is to update state revenue collections through the end of March, and most experts predict a drop from previous revenue estimates. 
 Moreover, in the next day or two, the comptroller will also issue a separate report detailing actual revenues and spending over the last fiscal year, a measure of how closely the state followed its own financial plan. If actual spending was lower than planned, as has been the case previously, that would in effect magnify proposed spending increases for the coming fiscal year, putting further pressure on budget negotiators to avoid last-minute spending increases.
 ''I do think that the revenue picture is deteriorating, and it's going to be very important to keep an eye on those revenue updates,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, the deputy research director for the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonprofit group that favors fiscal discipline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ACADEMIC TENURE (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (69%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); DAVID PATERSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



225 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 455 words

PERSON: William D. Eberle 

HEADLINE: William D. Eberle, 84, Trade Representative for Nixon

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER

 BODY:
William D. Eberle, who pushed Europe and Japan to lower trade barriers as President Richard M. Nixon's chief trade negotiator in the 1970s, died Thursday at his home in Concord, Mass. He was 84. 
 The cause was kidney failure, said his son Jeffrey. 
 Mr. Eberle became Nixon's special representative for trade in November 1971, when the American economy was being buffeted by inflation, recession and the Vietnam War. Post-World War II policies geared toward bolstering the economic recovery of Europe and Japan had created growing global competition for American manufacturers, who were also being hurt by fixed exchange rates, which kept the dollar artificially high. 
 Tirelessly but with limited success, Mr. Eberle pressed trading partners to give American farmers and businesses more access to overseas markets that had been sheltered by tariffs, bilateral agreements by the Europeans with former colonies and other barriers. He helped work out the terms of a dollar devaluation that made American exports more price-competitive. But he also fought isolationist voices at home and worked to explain foreign perspectives to American businesses. 
 He resigned in December 1974, four months after the Watergate scandal drove Nixon from office. 
 William Denman Eberle was born in Boise, Idaho, on June 5, 1923. He enrolled at Stanford University in 1941 but left in 1943 to serve in the Navy after completing an officer-training program.
 He received business and law degrees from Harvard University after the war (along with retroactive credit for finishing Stanford) and returned to Boise to practice law in 1950. 
 He soon became active in Republican politics, winning election as a state representative in 1953. He became majority leader in 1957 and speaker in 1961, the last of his five two-year terms in office.
 Also in 1957, Mr. Eberle helped Robert V. Hansberger, a Harvard classmate, engineer the merger that created the pulp and paper company Boise Cascade. After leaving the Legislature, he became a full-time executive there. In 1966, he became president of American Standard, a conglomerate, which promoted him to chief executive in 1967 and chairman in 1971.
 After leaving the federal government, Mr. Eberle was president of the Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association (the domestic auto industry's trade group) and then the United States Council of the International Chamber of Commerce before focusing most of his business activity on consulting.
 In addition to his son Jeffrey, of Concord, Mass., Mr. Eberle is survived by his wife, the former Jean C. Quick; two other sons, W. David Eberle of Boise and Francis Q. Eberle of Brunswick, Me.; a daughter, Cilista C. Eberle of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William D. Eberle (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR LUSINCHI/CAMERA PRESS LONDON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); WORLD WAR II (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); RECESSION (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); PAPER & PACKAGING (75%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); PAPER MFG (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); PULP MILLS (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); PAPER MILLS (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); DEVALUATION (69%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (66%); PULP INDUSTRY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (82%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

RICHARD NIXON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (93%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008



226 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Shares Lose Ground as Oil Shoots Higher

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street extended its losses Wednesday as a rise in oil prices and a profit warning from United Parcel Service raised investors' anxiety about the economy.
 Technology names were among the steepest decliners, and the tech-dominated Nasdaq composite index fell more than 1 percent.
 A surge in oil prices weighed on transportation stocks and contributed to a pessimistic tone in the market. The rise hurt shares of airline and trucking companies, which have already struggled with high fuel costs. 
 U.P.S., the world's largest shipping carrier, pointed to a weaker economy and higher fuel costs in trimming its forecast. Reports this week from the aluminum producer Alcoa and the chip maker Advanced Micro Devices have made the market uneasy about first-quarter results.
 Still, Joe Kinahan, chief derivatives strategist for the brokerage service Thinkorswim Group, said that the relative calm seen in the markets in recent sessions was impressive.
 ''It's the first week we have had in a while where stocks are trading on their own merit. That's why we're trading on oil,'' he said. ''It's amazing how well the market has held in there with three days of not good news.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 49.18, or 0.39 percent, to 12,527.26.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 11.05, or 0.81 percent, to 1,354.49, and the Nasdaq declined 26.64, or 1.13 percent, to 2,322.12. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 13.54, or 1.90 percent, to 698.38.
 Bond prices jumped as stocks declined. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 20/32, to 100 5/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.48 percent from 3.56 percent.
 Light crude jumped $2.37 to settle at $110.87 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after earlier rising as high as $112.21.
 The rise in oil hurt transportation stocks. Among airlines, Continental Airlines fell $1.66, or 7.6 percent, to $20.24, while the trucking company J. B. Hunt Transport Service fell $1.92, or 6 percent, to $29.85.
 Bill Schultz, chief investment officer at McQueen, Ball & Associates in Bethlehem, Pa., said some investors worried that profit warnings from companies like U.P.S. could signal the economy was facing a tougher climb, derailing hopes for a recovery in the second half of the year.
 ''We know the first quarter is not going to be good,'' he said, adding: ''People are looking for clues more, I think, for the second half this year.''
 Mr. Kinahan said that the Chicago Board Options Exchange's volatility index, known as the VIX and often referred to as the ''fear index,'' rose to 22.83 on Wednesday, but remained below the important 25 level. Readings in this range, he said, suggest investors are being careful but are not succumbing to fear.
 U.P.S. warned at an investor conference last month that it might miss its earnings target if weakness seen in February did not ease. U.P.S. fell $2.74, or 3.7 percent, to $70.57.
 AMR Corporation fell $1.15, or 11 percent, to $9.17 after its American Airlines canceled more than 1,000 flights as it inspects the wiring on some of its aircraft. On Tuesday, American canceled 460 flights after federal inspectors found problems in work done two weeks ago on wiring.
 Boeing delayed its 787 jetliner by an additional six months, but some analysts had expected a greater delay. The stock, one of the 30 that comprise the Dow industrials, rose $3.58, or 4.8 percent, to $78.60 and helped contain the blue chips' losses.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); AIRLINES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BASE METALS MARKETS (77%); TRUCKING (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (55%)

COMPANY: CBOE HOLDINGS INC (60%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (57%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (56%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%); ALCOA INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); J B HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES INC (52%)

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (60%); UPS (NYSE) (58%); UAL (NYSE) (57%); AMTD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%); AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%); JBHT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (60%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (60%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (58%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



227 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Proposal Would Relocate Arts Center to Transit Hub

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
New York State's top economic-development official has proposed moving the performing arts center planned for the former World Trade Center site and building it atop a vast subway station planned for downtown at Fulton Street and Broadway.
 The official, Avi Schick, chief executive of the Empire State Development Corporation, said his proposal was at this point only ''an idea or a concept.'' 
 But it has prompted concerns from the Joyce Theater, which in principle is to occupy the performing arts center; from downtown business groups; and from the architecture firm that designed the Fulton Street Transit Center. 
 Mr. Schick, who is also chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, said that by combining the performing arts center with the Fulton Street Transit Center, the state and city could save money and time. 
 Kate D. Levin, the city's cultural affairs commissioner, said the city would consider the matter. ''The state asked us to take a look at this, so we've agreed to a quick 30-day examination of that,'' she said. ''I need to see what we come up with.'' 
 Moving the performing arts center would amount to yet another significant change in the original master plan for ground zero. The proposal could well signal yet another power struggle between the city and the state over downtown redevelopment. 
 Both the transit center and the performing arts center have been plagued by fund-raising hurdles and delays. In January the Metropolitan Transportation Authority said it might have to scrap plans for the station altogether because of $1 billion in cost overruns for the authority's expansion projects over all.
 Fund-raising has not even begun on the performing arts center, which is to be designed by Frank Gehry. The project has been postponed pending the construction of a PATH station, designed by Santiago Calatrava, because the future Joyce site will be occupied by a temporary train exit until the station is completed.
 Linda Shelton, executive director of the Joyce Theater, said she was wary of the proposal. ''We have to look at any possibility, but we are still committed to being part of redevelopment at the World Trade Center site,'' she said. ''The reason we were selected in the first place still stands: to be part of a performing arts center that was going to activate and animate the area.''
 Placing the theater atop the transit hub would also mean eliminating the glass dome designed for the station by Grimshaw Architects, James Carpenter Design Associates and the engineering firm Arup. The dome, which is called an oculus, has already been diminished since its original 2004 incarnation because of budget constraints. 
 Initially designed to be 50 feet high -- taking the building's total height to about 100 feet -- it was scaled back to 20 feet in 2006 and to about 10 feet in 2007. Building on top of the station would cut off the light that the glass was designed to bring into it.
 Elizabeth H. Berger, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, a business group, said she was dismayed by Mr. Schick's proposal. ''We want what was promised -- which was an architecturally distinctive, above-ground transit hub with retail -- and we want it built now,'' she said. ''To change the design and the purpose of the building will cause substantial delays.''
 Ms. Berger said the station's function as a ''commercial crossroads'' would make the site problematic for a performing arts center. (The Fulton Street Transit Center would essentially replace six existing Lower Manhattan subway stations, incorporating 12 subway lines.)
 ''You have 250,000 people coming in and out of that station every day, and it will be 300,000 after the connectors are built,'' she said. Ms. Berger added that it would be difficult for trucks carrying scenery or remote broadcasting equipment to navigate the surrounding side streets, which are narrow.
 The Transportation Authority said in a statement: ''The M.T.A. continues to evaluate options for the above-ground portion of the Fulton Street Transit Center. We are aware of the proposal, which the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation is reviewing.''
 Mr. Schick said the new station he envisions would preserve the transit hub's program and simply add a 1,000-seat theater on top. ''If the M.T.A. can build what it has promised, that would be best.'' Mr. Schick said. ''It's certainly an unbelievable location on top of 12 subway lines and on the corner of Fulton and Broadway.''
 If part of the ground zero plan, the performing arts center stood to get funds from the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. Mr. Schick said it would still receive that aid in the new location. ''We're not looking to diminish our support,'' he said. 
 Mr. Schick has been president of the Empire State Development Corporation since 2007 and became acting chief executive of the corporation in March, after Patrick J. Foye resigned as co-chairman. 
 Andrew Whalley, director of the New York office of Grimshaw, said the proposal raises serious questions. 
 ''Transportation infrastructure makes lots of noise and vibration,'' he said. ''A performing arts center requires a certain amount of acoustical isolation. They're not natural bedfellows.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The original design for the Fulton Street Transit Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY M.T.A.)(pg. E1)
 A rendering of the interior view of the Fulton Street center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY M.T.A.) (pg. E7) MAP: A transit hub at Fulton Street and Broadway might include a relocated arts center. (pg. E7) Map showing the location of the transit hub. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (95%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); THEATER (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



228 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Inventories Rise as Sales Fall

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Inventories at United States wholesalers rose 1.1 percent in February, more than forecast, reflecting the biggest slump in sales in more than a year.
 The gain followed a 1.3 percent increase in January, revised upward from 1 percent, the Commerce Department said Wednesday. Sales dropped 0.8 percent, the most since January 2007. 
 Distributors had enough goods on hand to last 1.12 months at the current sales pace, the most in five months.
 ''Supply is starting to run ahead of demand,'' said Jonathan Basile, an economist at Credit Suisse in New York, ''and that could mean slower growth and also slower inflation further on down the line.''
 Economists had forecast that wholesale inventories would rise 0.5 percent, according to the median of 40 projections in a Bloomberg News survey.
 Wholesalers account for about a quarter of all business stockpiles. Factory inventories, which make up about one-third more, rose 0.5 percent, the government said on April 2. Retail stockpiles will be included in the business inventories report next Monday.
 The increase in stockpiles was led by automobile, furniture and metals distributors.
 Inventories at auto wholesalers rose 1 percent as sales dropped 1.9 percent. A 1.5 percent rise in furniture inventories reflected a 4.6 percent slump in sales, the biggest in that category since December 2002. Sales at hardware distributors declined 3.9 percent, the most since June 2001.
 Auto inventories may decrease in coming months as manufacturers use existing parts while they await the end of a strike at American Axle and Manufacturing.
 Inventories of durable goods, relatively expensive items expected to last three years or more, increased 0.7 percent and those of nondurable products, like oil, rose 1.8 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (93%); INVENTORIES (91%); WHOLESALERS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); FACTORY ORDERS (79%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLE WHOLESALERS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); METALS & MINERALS WHOLESALERS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (57%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); AMERICAN AXLE & MANUFACTURING HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); AXL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



229 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: A Fourth Budget Carrier Halts Operations

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Oasis Hong Kong Airlines, a long-haul budget carrier that tried to offer premium service and spacious seats at low prices, suddenly went into liquidation on Wednesday and canceled all flights. It was the fourth budget carrier worldwide to halt operations in the last week and a half. 
 The bankruptcy filing by Oasis stranded thousands of passengers in Hong Kong, London and Vancouver. Many of the would-be passengers stuck in Hong Kong are children trying to return to British boarding schools after spring break.
 High jet-fuel prices have taken a heavy toll on the airline industry and particularly on low-margin budget carriers. The other three to shut down since March 31, all in the United States, are Aloha Airgroup, ATA Airlines and Skybus Airlines.
 The spate of bankruptcies threatens to undermine travelers' confidence in budget carriers. But airline industry experts say that Oasis's business model of punctual, top-notch service and lots of legroom at discount prices made it especially vulnerable as crude oil prices passed $100 a barrel.
 For other budget carriers, the lesson of Oasis's demise is that ''they have to pack more seats and more passengers into their aircraft,'' said Derek Sadubin, the chief operating officer of the Center for Asia Pacific Aviation, a consulting company in Sydney.
 Stephen Miller, the chief executive of Oasis, said at a brief news conference on Wednesday that the carrier still hoped to find an investor to buy its operations. But Eva Cheng, Hong Kong's secretary for transportation and housing, said the company had made a voluntary filing for liquidation on Wednesday morning only after lengthy negotiations with a possible investor broke down on Tuesday.
 Ms. Cheng said the sudden cessation of service by Oasis was particularly troubling because it came at a time when many flights on other carriers were already fully booked -- and many children, some traveling without adults, were trying to return to school in Britain.
 Virtually all civil servants in Hong Kong, a former British colony, are eligible for a taxable government allowance that covers more than half the cost of sending children to boarding school in Britain. An estimated 40,000 young people from Hong Kong attend schools in Britain. 
 The High Court in Hong Kong appointed the accounting company KPMG on Wednesday as the provisional liquidators of Oasis, which was started in October 2006 by Raymond and Priscilla Lee, a wealthy Hong Kong couple active in real estate and philanthropic causes.
 Oasis operated four roomy Boeing 747-400s with twin aisles on its nearly 13-hour flights from Hong Kong to London and Vancouver. But the planes also have four engines, which gulped fuel. 
 Oasis was an unusual hybrid of the new all-business-class airlines now appearing over the Atlantic and the inexpensive economy-class carriers spreading around the world. It allocated 22 percent of its seats to business class and charged as little as a third of the prices of one competitor, Cathay. It sought a niche among travelers who dread long flights in economy class but are reluctant to pay $6,300 round trip for business class.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIR FARES (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); JET FUEL (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PHILANTHROPY (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%); ALOHA AIRGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) HONG KONG (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



230 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; THE KITCHEN ISSUE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Choosing Luxuries in Tight Times

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
''WE always used to think we were kind of recession-proof,'' Mark Karas was saying Tuesday. Mr. Karas, who's been in the kitchen business for 31 years, is also the vice president of the National Kitchen and Bath Association, a trade organization whose annual show, with nearly 1,000 exhibitors, opens tomorrow in Chicago. As he explained it, ''In the past, when construction was down, people would just remodel. However, in the last few years, people have equitied their houses to death, so business as a whole has just slowed right down.'' Earlier, Mr. Karas had fielded a call from a television station that wanted to feature 25 new kitchen and bath products under $1,000. ''Ha,'' Mr. Karas snorted, ''there's nothing new under the sun, much less under $1,000. It's all recycled, remarketed and repackaged.''
 As it happens, spending on kitchens at all price points is flattening: while last year, according to the NPD Group, a market research firm, Americans spent over $22 billion on kitchen appliances, gadgets and plumbing fixtures, that's less than a 2.8 percent increase over 2006. ''With the economy tightening it's becoming fashionable to be a little more frugal,'' said Mark Delaney, a director of the NPD Group. 
 Nevertheless, manufacturers are hoping this year's new gizmos and gadgets, like the five shown here, will tempt wary consumers. Even Mr. Karas said he was more sanguine than truly gloomy. ''You just have to be smart so you can weather through this cycle.''
 Fancy Drawers For Choice Chilling
 Refrigerator drawers have been around for about a decade. But a new 3-cubic-foot version from Fishel & Paykel, a New Zealand company, has a neat trick: buttons that program the thing five ways. ''You can set it to 'freeze', 'chill', 'fridge', 'pantry' and 'wine','' said Scott Davis, product manager for the company. Who knew that meat likes to ''chill'' at 31 degrees Fahrenheit, but cheese and milk are happiest at 37 (that's the ''fridge'' setting). ''Pantry,'' at 54, is designed for avocados and tomatoes. Mr. Davis said most customers will install the drawer near a food prep area; Mr. Karas, who sells a Sub-Zero drawer, said his customers like them in bedrooms and bathrooms. Fisher & Paykel's CoolDrawer is $2,000. Available in October; Fisherpaykel.com.
 Synchronized Bathing in a Tub With a Beat
 This multisensory environment comes with its own sound system and pulses to the beat of whatever is playing. Also there are lights in there that do the same thing. As Mirjam Lippuner Konsek, a Kohler publicist, explained it, because of an acoustic principle called ''entrainment,'' your very breath and heartbeat will synchronize to the bath's beat. Perhaps this is not a product for hard core thrash fans, or those who like old-style techno music (four ''soothing'' musical compositions are loaded in the system). The Kohler Fountainhead Bath with Vibracoustic technology comes in two sizes, $11,000 and $13,000; kohler.com.
 The Helpful, Chatty Pair in the Laundry Room
 The folks at GE described this duo as a boon to those flummoxed by too much thinking about laundry. Load up the SmartDispense drawer with six months' worth of detergent and fabric softener, and it will dispense both based on the weight and general crud level of your clothes (it customizes for stains, too). Then the washer gives the dryer -- using CleanSpeak technology! -- its orders, so all you have to do is heft the clothes from one machine to the other. 
 If you are daunted by the intellectual prowess required to choose a drying time, relief is here. GE Profile SmartDispense Frontload Laundry Pair: the washer is $1,299, the dryer is $1,099 and the SmartDispense feature, which fits in the drawer below the washer, is $499. Available in June; geappliances.com.
 Modern Fountains of Youth?
 According to David Fowler, president of Wellness Enterprises, a company that makes water filtration systems, nasty chemicals in the water supply can be inhaled while you shower. Mr. Fowler said his Wellness Shower, above left, will filter out chlorine, among other things. Also, he claimed, it will make water wetter, so your skin absorbs it better. Pardon? ''We have a patented process that decreases the surface tension of water,'' he said. ''This drives more water into the skin, making it softer and plumper.'' More like a grape and less like a raisin, he added. His selling points include a claim that the filter removes mold so you don't have to clean your shower so much. The Wellness Shower is $249; wellnessshower.com. ProSun International, which makes tanning beds and lights, is now making showers. Since tanning is now seen to be an act with the same sort of health benefits as, say, smoking, the UV business has lost a bit of its glow. A new ''skin rejuvenator'' shower might rejuvenate the industry, too. Two years ago, ProSun offered a shower/tanning combo, great for multitasking individuals, said Philip Doffegnies, vice president of ProSun. This year, they've created a refinement on that duo. The ProSun SunShower SR Plus, above right, adds an L.E.D. panel to the top of a row of ultraviolet lights. Mr. Doffegnies claims the L.E.D. panel removes wrinkles ''by increasing the production of collagen in your skin.'' Talk about multitasking: that suggests skin can be wrinkled and smoothed out at the same time. The SunShower Plus is $12,400; prosunshower.com; (800) 874-2776.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (87%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (71%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (71%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (69%); MARKET RESEARCH (67%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (67%); CHEESE (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL KITCHEN & BATH ASSOCIATION (58%)

PERSON: D SCOTT DAVIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



231 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Costs Just Part of Airlines' List of Woes

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

 BODY:
Even before the recent flight cancellations, airlines and passengers were facing a new wave of travel misery.
 Record-high fuel prices and the industry's fragile finances have led to a new round of bankruptcies among smaller carriers in recent weeks, including ATA Airlines, Skybus and Aloha Airgroup.
 Bigger airlines are shrinking their fleets to cut fuel costs, even as demand for travel remains strong -- meaning flights are growing more crowded and unpleasant. 
 And layoffs are beginning again for a business that, to many of its customers, is already suffering service problems. It feels that way to airline workers, too, and as the industry's decline accelerates, passengers can expect harried and grumpy gate agents and flight attendants.
 Moreover, all across the air travel system in the United States, equipment -- air traffic control systems, airplanes, airline computer systems -- is aging and in many cases overtaxed. That means breakdowns and weather problems become more disruptive.
 In the near term, airlines cannot raise fares fast enough to cover rising fuel costs; oil settled at a record price on Wednesday, $110.87 a barrel. That has plunged the industry back into the red after a brief two-year run of profits. A Merrill Lynch analyst, Michael Linenberg, expects the industry to lose $1.9 billion this year.
 One bad sign: a handful of airline shares are cheaper (Frontier, $1.79; Expressjet, $2.21; Mesa Air, 96 cents) than an airport beer.
 Years of cost-cutting on maintenance and, to some critics, a lax regulatory approach by the Federal Aviation Administration, appear to be catching up with domestic airlines and their customers.
 American Airlines and its domestic competitors have been scaling back maintenance spending for years. Some airlines sent work overseas in search of cheaper labor. Some also cut wages of mechanics in the United States and reduced their number. Others quickened the pace of work at maintenance facilities.
 ''They let too many people go,'' said Kevin Cornwell, an MD-80 captain at American who is also a pilots union official. ''They sold spare parts years ago to raise cash. Things don't get fixed as fast.''
 The industry's biggest problem is the price of jet fuel. It follows the price of oil, which has more than doubled since dropping to $52 a barrel in January 2007. 
 With current air fares, a lot of planes simply cannot operate profitably. Though airlines raised fares on a broad scale 10 times in the first quarter of 2008, four of those increases failed to hold. And on many routes, the increases that did hold were ineffective because discount airlines had refused to match the increases.
 Southwest Airlines, the most influential carrier on domestic fares, raised its average fare just 2 percent last year, to $106.60. And consumers have become surprisingly adept at shopping on the Internet for the lowest fare, frustrating the industry.
 So major carriers like Northwest Airlines, Delta Air Lines and United Airlines have responded in part by grounding older, fuel-guzzling planes.
 But the planes most vulnerable to higher fuel prices may be regional jets that seat 50 or fewer passengers. Smaller jets became more prominent in recent years as major carriers withdrew their larger planes from many smaller markets. 
 Most of the smaller jets are operated by regional airlines under contract to major carriers. And the major carriers are looking for ways to rid themselves of some of these money-losing arrangements.
 Mike Boyd, an aviation consultant, expects the North American fleet of 1,675 regional jets to begin shrinking this year to 1,042 by 2013. That would reduce service to many smaller cities and could eliminate flights to some markets altogether.
 American said in November that it wanted to sell or spin off its American Eagle unit, which operates about 200 of the smaller, less efficient jets. No buyer has publicly emerged. 
 Continental Airlines scaled back contracts with Expressjet, cutting 69 regional jets. Trying to fly most of those planes under it own name, Expressjet lost $70.2 million last year versus a profit of $92.6 million in 2006. Even with low ticket prices, it was able to sell only 56 percent of the seats on those planes.
 And Delta last month told Mesa Air it planned to cancel an agreement paying Mesa to fly about three dozen regional jets.
 ''There's no place to put those planes,'' said Mr. Boyd, the consultant.
 ''It's like a dead-end plane,'' added Roger King, an analyst at CreditSights. ''The 50-seat jets are not economic in this high-fuel environment.''
 Some major carriers think merging will be their salvation. Delta and Northwest appear to be in talks again about a combination. 
 For passengers, however, such a deal could hold a big downside. Some business travelers who range far and wide would be able to travel more through a single airline, and perhaps more cheaply.
 But a merger, especially at current fuel prices, would probably lead to fewer combined flights in some markets, making the remaining planes more crowded.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A woman waited at La Guardia Airport in New York City on Wednesday to rebook after flight cancellations by American Airlines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) CHART: FUEL PRICE PRESSURE: Soon after the airline industry was deregulated in 1978, the price of jet fuel began a steady decline, but since 2002, it has risen sharply -- a tremendous blow to the airlines. (Source: Air Transport Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AIR FARES (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); JET FUEL (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); ALOHA AIRGROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); MESA AIR GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



232 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: For a Time, Crude Oil Tops $112 a Barrel

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Oil rose more than $2 a barrel, after touching a record $112.21, and gasoline jumped to the highest ever after the Energy Department reported an unexpected decline in crude supplies on Wednesday. 
 The department reported a drop of 3.1 million barrels in oil stockpiles, sending the price up as much as 3.4 percent in New York. Gasoline futures jumped as much as 2.6 percent. At the pump, consumers are paying a record $3.343 a gallon on average, said AAA, the nation's largest motorist organization.
 ''This reaction to the D.O.E. numbers suggests that the supply and demand fundamentals are still important,'' said Adam E. Sieminski, Deutsche Bank's chief energy economist in Washington. ''It's not just the speculators that are driving prices higher.''
 Oil's 80 percent gain in the last year is the second biggest among 19 commodities on the Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index, trailing only wheat, which has doubled. Rising global demand for raw materials and a weakening dollar have led to records this year for raw materials including corn, soybeans, rice and gold.
 Crude oil for May delivery rose $2.37, or 2.2 percent, to settle at $110.87 a barrel at 2:51 p.m. on the New York Mercantile Exchange, a record close. The intraday record of $112.21 a barrel was the highest since Nymex futures trading began in 1983.
 Gasoline for May delivery climbed 2.38 cents, or 0.9 percent, to close at $2.7742 a gallon. Futures reached $2.8228, an intraday record for gasoline to be blended with ethanol, known as RBOB, which began trading in October 2005.
 American pump prices are following futures higher. Regular gasoline, averaged nationwide, rose 1.2 cents to the record, AAA said Wednesday on its Web site. Diesel prices advanced 1.2 cents, to $4.032 a gallon, AAA said. Diesel pump prices reached a record $4.037 on March 22.
 Gasoline demand in the United States may drop by 85,000 barrels a day this summer, Guy Caruso, administrator of the Energy Information Administration, said on Monday, noting that gasoline use fell 1.4 percent in the summer of 1991, after a nine-month recession during George H. W. Bush's presidency.
 But Antoine Halff, head of energy research at Newedge USA in New York, said: ''Domestic demand isn't great but that's not important. Global demand is still growing and that's what matters.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A gasoline station in New York City, where some prices top $4 a gallon. The government says stockpiles of oil have declined. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GASOLINE MARKETS (91%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (79%); DIESEL FUEL (79%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); GASOLINE (79%); BIOFUELS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (77%); CORN MARKETS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); ETHANOL (73%); ALCOHOLS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (61%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: NEWEDGE GROUP (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



233 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Down on the Farm, in Poland and America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I found ''Old Ways, New Pain for Farms in Poland'' (news article, April 4), about the dilemma of the small Polish farm, quite evocative of my growing up on an Iowa farm in the 1930s. 
 The farm's barn had wooden floors on which we milked five cows by hand, butchered our own hogs and sold others locally along with cream to be made into butter. 
 We did not use insecticides and used our horses to spread manure in the winter. We did not plow in the winter, although some neighbors did in the belief that the winter snows better added moisture to the soil. One of the major differences, of course, was size: our farm consisted of 100 acres. 
 How could such an old way of farming be changed? I believe that Szczepan Master, the farmer in your article, is correct in his pessimism. Look at the alternatives offered. The first is to modernize with new equipment: buy a tractor and stainless steel milk containers. But a tractor needs other equipment -- plows, disks and so on -- since the horse-drawn would not work. And sanitary milk production would require more than just containers. 
 What would additionally be needed would be refrigerated coolers, new plumbing and milking machines. Both changes would also need enough resources to pay for increased energy costs (fuel for the tractor and electricity for the milking system). How would the Masters pay for this? They would need more land and a more secure market. 
 The second alternative is to go organic. This would require less subsidy, but it, too, seems almost impossible. Organic farming requires much more hand labor, and the Masters do not appear to be of an age to cultivate even a 17-acre plot successfully. Besides, once again, there is no market. 
 The third is to open a bed-and-breakfast, probably an even more questionable alternative since it would necessitate retraining. 
 I am afraid the answer will be the same as in the United States: grow larger or find a job elsewhere to support the farm. 
 Mr. Master is right, he can no longer farm this old way. 
 Dwight W. Hoover Sarasota, Fla., April 4, 2008
 The writer is the author of a book about an Iowa farm in the Great Depression.
 To the Editor:
 Thank you for your insightful report on small, family farming in Poland. It invoked fond, childhood memories of passing through the village of Stryszow (the dateline of your article) aboard a steam train en route for summer holidays, spent at a similar mountain farm.
 Economic transformations are taking place the world over, and no one is immune to change. But one hopes that intelligent change will be for the better, and bureaucratic pressures will not result in a shutdown of farming as described in your article. 
 Otherwise, 20 years from now it will cost untold millions in subsidies to re-create such ways, as demand for locally produced, specialty, natural and organic produce rises steadily worldwide. 
 Piotr Kumelowski Forest Hills, Queens, April 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); HORSES (77%); ORGANIC FOODS (76%); INSECTICIDES (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (72%); TRAINS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (52%) IOWA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); POLAND (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



234 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Art Continues To Soar at Sotheby's

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Sotheby's sold $51.77 million worth of Chinese contemporary art in three auctions in Hong Kong on Wednesday, allaying concerns that the global economic slowdown would depress the prices.
 The highlight of the day was the highly anticipated afternoon sale of more than 100 works from the Estella Collection, which Sotheby's has called the largest and most important collection of Chinese contemporary art ever to come to auction.
 That sale brought in nearly $18 million from aggressive bidders who crowded into a Hong Kong convention center and from others who called in bids. 
 The star of that auction was a 1995 painting by Zhang Xiaogang, one of China's most prominent artists, which sold for just over $6 million, the highest price ever paid for a painting by a Chinese contemporary artist.
 That oil on canvas, ''Bloodline: Big Family No. 3,'' depicts a family of three during the tumultuous Cultural Revolution in China, when children were sometimes led to denounce their parents. Three collectors bid feverishly for the piece, which sold for far above its high estimate, about $3.4 million.
 Sotheby's identified the buyer, who bid by telephone, as a Taiwanese-born collector now living in the United States.
 The price was a bit above the record set at Sotheby's auction house last October, when a Yue Minjun painting called ''Execution,'' inspired by the 1989 crackdown on student demonstrators at Tiananmen Square in Beijing, sold for about $5.9 million.
 Collectors also offered high bids on works by other well-known Chinese artists like Zeng Fanzhi, Cai Guo-Qiang, Ai Weiwei and Sui Jianguo. 
 The most sought-after artists are mostly in their 40s and 50s and came of age in the 1980s and early 1990s, when contemporary art was just beginning to blossom in China after broad economic and political changes. An installation and sketches based on Chinese characters by the artist Xu Bing sold for nearly $1 million. And ''Two Wandering Tigers,'' a gunpowder-on-paper work by Mr. Cai, sold for over $973,000.
 In an equally ebullient evening session, a set of nine paintings by the realist painter Liu Xiaodong sold for $7.9 million.
 The works, ''Battlefield Realism: The 18 Arhats,'' portray soldiers from Taiwan and China.
 A colorful painting by Yue Minjun, known as a cynical realist artist for his toothy, delirious self-portraits, sold for $2.6 million. 
 The soaring prices of Chinese contemporary artists over the past few years has jolted the global auction market, setting off a building boom in arts districts in Beijing and Shanghai and turning many Chinese artists into multimillionaires.
 Just a few years ago works by Mr. Zhang sold for less than $50,000. But last year Mr. Zhang, 50, was one of the hottest living artists in the global auction market, just behind Damien Hirst and Gerhard Richter and ahead of Jeff Koons, according to the Artprice publication Art Market Trends 2007.
 That report also said China surpassed France last year as the world's third-biggest auction market, behind only the United States and Britain.
 Among the biggest winners on Wednesday was Sotheby's, which along with William Acquavella, the Manhattan dealer, had recently acquired the Estella Collection. It originally belonged to a small group of investors and collectors, including Sacha Lainovic, a director of Weight Watchers International, and Ray Debbane, the chief executive of the private-equity firm the Invus Group. The Manhattan art dealer Michael Goedhuis helped them amass the collection.
 A few years ago Sotheby's did not even hold auctions of Chinese contemporary art. But last year it sold nearly $200 million worth of Asian contemporary art, the bulk of it by Chinese artists.
 Christie's auction house has also benefited with record-breaking sales of Chinese contemporary art in recent years.
 In September Sotheby's plans to sell more works from the Estella Collection at a New York auction.
 The $51.7 million raised over all on Wednesday was far above the auction house's high estimate of $46 million, and about 90 percent of the works sold. The $18 million from the sale of the Estella Collection was far above a high estimate of $12 million.
 Estimates did not include Sotheby's commission and buyer's premium, which are incorporated into the final prices.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cai Guo-Qiang's ''Two Wandering Tigers'' sold for over $973,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S) (pg. E5)
 Zhang Xiaogang's ''Bloodline: The Big Family No. 3.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S) (pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PAINTING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S (92%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (93%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



235 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Lowers Its Forecast For the U.S.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The United States is headed for a recession, dragging world economic growth down along with it, the International Monetary Fund concluded in a sobering new forecast released Wednesday.
 In its World Economic Outlook, the fund cut growth projections for the United States and said that the fragile state of affairs greatly raised the odds that the global economy would fall into a slump. 
 Financial problems that erupted in August 2007 in the American subprime mortgage market ''spread quickly and unpredictably'' and caused ''extensive damage,'' the I.M.F. said. It described the financial shock as the biggest since the Great Depression.
 Economic growth in the United States is expected to slow to a crawl of just 0.5 percent this year, which would be the worst pace in 17 years. The United States will not fare much better next year, according to the I.M.F., which said that the American economy would grow by a feeble 0.6 percent in 2009, when measured by an annual average.
 David H. McCormick, the Treasury Department's point person on international affairs, called the I.M.F.'s projections ''unduly pessimistic,'' but many private economists say they believe that the country has already fallen into its first recession since 2001. Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, acknowledged last week for the first time that a recession was possible.
 When the I.M.F. projected the direction of the American economy using another measure -- comparing activity in the fourth quarter of one year with the previous year -- the reading was that the economy would actually shrink 0.7 percent this year, said the fund's chief economist, Simon Johnson. By that measure, the economy appears poised to grow 1.6 percent in 2009, he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (56%); SUBPRIME LENDING (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



236 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 367 words

PERSON: Doris Tillett 

HEADLINE: Doris Tillett, 91, Designer Of Hand-Printed Textiles

BYLINE: By STUART LAVIETES

 BODY:
Doris Tillett, a textile designer who with her husband created hand-printed fabrics for some of America's most prominent decorators and also helped establish community-run textile businesses in depressed New York neighborhoods, died in Housatonic, Mass., on March 30. She was 91 and until recently had lived in Manhattan. 
 Her death was announced by her son Seth.
 Ms. Tillett, known as D. D., and her husband, Leslie, produced luxurious custom-made fabrics that became popular in the 1960s and '70s. They created materials that were used by the decorators Sister Parish and Albert Hadley in the Kennedy White House, and they later designed fabrics for Caroline Kennedy's wedding. 
 Ms. Tillett was known for her eclectic, bold designs, which included nautical, shell and floral motifs, stripes and patterns based on traditional Japanese and Mexican handicrafts.
 The Tilletts were instrumental in the founding in 1968 of Design Works, a textile operation in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn that recruited and trained local residents to work as designers and printers. The company was established by an agency created by Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and the Tilletts were introduced to the project by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.
 The Tilletts were teachers and mentors for Design Works employees and used their contacts in the industry and the design world to attract additional support for the company.
 The Tilletts assisted in the start-up of a similar operation in the early 1980s, the Cathedral Works Company, at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine in Morningside Heights.
 They were also active in promoting the growth of textile businesses overseas. Recruited by the Agency for International Development in the late 1960s, they taught printing and design techniques to South Korean producers of raw silk and helped bring their new products to the United States. They were also consultants to emerging businesses in China, Lesotho and Peru.
 Ms. Tillett was born Doris Doctorow in Brooklynin 1917. In addition to her son Seth, of Manhattan, she is survived by another son, Dek, of Housatonic; a daughter, Linnaea, of Brooklyn; and five grandchildren. Her husband died in 1992.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A fabric design by D. D. Tillett. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILADELPHIA MUSEUM OF ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FABRICS (90%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (78%); TEXTILE MFG (78%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (69%); LESOTHO (69%)

CATEGORY: interior Decoration

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



237 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: What Emancipation Didn't Stop After All

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
SLAVERY BY ANOTHER NAME 
 The Re-Enslavement of Black Americans From the Civil War to World War II 
 By Douglas A. Blackmon 
 Illustrated. 468 pages. Doubleday. $29.95. 
 In ''Slavery by Another Name'' Douglas A. Blackmon eviscerates one of our schoolchildren's most basic assumptions: that slavery in America ended with the Civil War. Mr. Blackmon unearths shocking evidence that the practice persisted well into the 20th century. And he is not simply referring to the virtual bondage of black sharecroppers unable to extricate themselves economically from farming. 
 He describes free men and women forced into industrial servitude, bound by chains, faced with subhuman living conditions and subject to physical torture. That plight was horrific. But until 1951, it was not outside the law. 
 All it took was anything remotely resembling a crime. Bastardy, gambling, changing employers without permission, false pretense, ''selling cotton after sunset'': these were all grounds for arrest in rural Alabama by 1890. And as Mr. Blackmon explains in describing incident after incident, an arrest could mean a steep fine. If the accused could not pay this debt, he or she might be imprisoned. 
 Alabama was among the Southern states that profitably leased convicts to private businesses. As the book illustrates, arrest rates and the labor needs of local businesses could conveniently be made to dovetail.
 For the coal, lumber, turpentine, brick, steel and other interests described here, a steady stream of workers amounted to a cheap source of fuel. And the welfare of such workers was not the companies' concern. So in the case of John Clarke, convicted of ''gaming'' on April 11, 1903, a 10-day stint in the Sloss-Sheffield mine in Coalburg, Ala., could erase his fine. But it would take an additional 104 days for him to pay fees to the sheriff, county clerk and witnesses who appeared at his trial. 
 In any case, Mr. Clarke survived for only one month and three days in this captivity. The cause of his death was said to be falling rock. At least another 2,500 men were incarcerated in Alabama labor camps at that time.
 This is a very tough story to tell, and not just because of its extremely graphic details. Mr. Blackmon, who was reared in the Mississippi Delta and is now the Atlanta bureau chief of The Wall Street Journal, must set forth a huge chunk of history. He writes of how the emancipation of slaves left Southern plantations ''not just financially but intellectually bereft'' because the slaves' knowledge and experience could be indispensable; how the rise of industry reshaped the South; how a new generation of African-Americans who had not known slavery found themselves threatened by it; how slavery intersected with efforts to unionize labor; and even how, once blacks lost their voting rights but still had clout at the Republican convention, they were strategically important to President Theodore Roosevelt's 1904 election campaign.
 The roles of elected officials in acknowledging and stopping this new slavery are a crucial part of Mr. Blackmon's story. Needless to say, it is complicated. The book describes the 1903 investigation authorized by the Justice Department, the trial of accused slave traders and the aggressive stance taken by Warren S. Reese Jr., the United States attorney in Alabama, in prosecuting his case. 
 ''As allegations of slavery in his jurisdiction multiplied, Reese demonstrated a prehensile comprehension of the murky legal framework governing black labor,'' Mr. Blackmon writes, ''and a hard-nosed unwillingness to ignore the implications of the extraordinary evidence that soon poured into his office.''
 The resulting trial is among this book's many zealously researched episodes. (Mr. Blackmon's sources range from corporate records to one ''Sheriff's Feeding Account, 1899-1907.'') Its outcome was promising, but there were loopholes. As one sign of this story's complexity, consider that the traders were tried on charges of peonage. 
 Those charges turned out not to be applicable in Alabama. And in another such case, lawyers would argue that the charge should instead be involuntary servitude. Reformers were dealing with ''a constitutional limbo in which slavery as a legal concept was prohibited by the Constitution, but no statute made an act of enslavement explicitly illegal.''
 Mr. Blackmon's way of organizing this material is to bookend his legal and historical chronicle with the personal story of Green Cottenham, a black man born free in the mid-1880s. This gets ''Slavery by Another Name'' off to a shaky start, if only because many of Mr. Blackmon's wordings are speculative. The book underscores that if black Americans' enslavement to U.S. Steel (which, when it acquired the Tennessee Coal, Iron & Railroad Company, became a prime offender) is analogous to the slavery that occurred in Nazi Germany, it also emphasizes that the American slaves' illiteracy meant there would be no written records of their experience. So imagining Mr. Green's experience becomes something of a stretch.
 But as soon as it gets to more verifiable material, ''Slavery by Another Name'' becomes relentless and fascinating. It exposes what has been a mostly unexplored aspect of American history (though there have been dissertations and a few books from academic presses). It creates a broad racial, economic, cultural and political backdrop for events that have haunted Mr. Blackmon and will now haunt us all. And it need not exaggerate the hellish details of intense racial strife. 
 The torment that Mr. Blackmon catalogs is, if anything, understated here. But it loudly and stunningly speaks for itself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carl Weiss's 1898 photo of a chain gang in Thomasville, Ga. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRARY OF CONGRESS/DOUBLEDAY) (pg. E9)
Douglas A. Blackmon (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL A. SCHWARTZ)(pg. E9)
 John L. Spivak's 1932 photo of a prisoner punished in Georgia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY RANSOM HUMANITIES RESEARCH CENTER/DOUBLEDAY) (pg. E9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SLAVERY (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (88%); WORLD WAR II (78%); WITNESSES (76%); CHILDREN (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (69%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); TORTURE (69%); LABOR UNIONS (58%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (94%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Slavery by Another Name (Book)>; Slavery by Another Name (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



238 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: The I.O.C.'s Five-Ring Circus

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The turmoil in the streets of San Francisco on Wednesday -- ominous dark-clad SWAT team members protecting single runners carrying the Olympic torch through a gantlet of protesters -- has been coming for a long time.
 It began on that July day in 2001 when the International Olympic Committee voted to make Beijing the host of the 2008 Summer Games. In those simpler hours before 9/11, that vote seemed like an idealistic notion, acknowledging the economic progress of China, hands across the sea. 
 ''The I.O.C. must have been clueless not to see this coming, to put everyone in this position,'' Lhadon Tethong, the executive director of the Students for a Free Tibet, said in a telephone interview Wednesday from San Francisco, where surging crowds of protesters forced the torch relay to be drastically truncated, lest something worse happen. 
 The protesters were mainly concerned with Chinese repression in Tibet, but there are many other protests over China. Unable to find satisfaction through governments, elected or otherwise, the protesters have gone after China through one of the easiest targets in the world -- a runner in shorts, jogging through a major city, carrying a torch.
 Asked what the immediate goal was for the protest in San Francisco, Tethong, herself a Tibetan exile who grew up in Canada, replied: ''The chaos you see in the street. The message is out.'' 
 The flame was briefly extinguished in Paris, hidden under tight security in San Francisco. The I.O.C. should probably cancel the relay procession scheduled for Buenos Aires on Friday and continuing through Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, on April 29 before reaching China. 
 The I.O.C. could curtail this artificial pageant, which has no roots in ancient Greece, the home of the Olympic movement, but began with the celebration of Aryan pride before the Berlin Games of 1936.
 Any shortening of the torch relay would be a tremendous loss of face for the host nation, but also for the I.O.C., which committed to the Summer Games in China when it should have known the furies would pursue China in countries where furies are allowed to demonstrate in the street.
 ''We could not have held these speeches in Tiananmen Square,'' Charlie Altekruse, a former Olympian, said Wednesday, referring to the murderous suppression of protest in Beijing's main square in 1989. 
 Altekruse was a rower in 1980 when he and 466 other American Olympians were told they had to miss the Summer Games in Moscow -- ''the dismal and failed boycott,'' he still calls it.
 Differentiating between protest and boycott, Altekruse, a resident of Berkeley, Calif., fully supported Wednesday's demonstrations, which he missed because of business elsewhere. He speaks glowingly of the Tibetan Buddhist culture, having been introduced to it by his wife, Barbara Banks, who helped make a documentary called ''Tibet in Exile.'' 
 Millions of people around the world are critical of China for its control of Tibet and Xinjiang as well as its identification with the tribal murders in Darfur. But should the Olympics pay the price for widespread governmental aggression and diplomatic failures? Should people who enjoy free speech put on their sneakers from China, their T-shirts and jeans from China, their ball caps from China, their sunglasses from China, in order to disrupt a runner carrying a torch through a free city?
 The Olympics are an obvious target for protests, given the bigoted and nationalistic facades of Olympics past -- the white male leadership for so many decades, the kowtowing to Hitler in 1936, the recent taint of financial favor from potential host cities, including Atlanta and Salt Lake City. 
 One could make the point that the Olympics are nothing more than overrated television filler during the dog days of August, with admirable athletes performing rarely seen sports, with a flair of human interest. (Let's face it, the World Cup of soccer is the world's greatest sports event.) However, because of the reverential tone of broadcasters, acting as if they are presenting a sacred ritual, the Olympics have retained their heavy cachet around the world -- just important enough for the Olympics to catch hell when they send torch runners out in the street.
 At least, it may be time to call off the relay with its roots in Nazi Germany. Until further notice, it's too much of a target. However, the Students for a Free Tibet are also officially calling for a boycott of the opening ceremony -- ''for now,'' Tethong said Wednesday. 
 Boycotts are where Altekruse came in. In 1980, he was forced by President Carter to take the hit for diplomatic impotence. He was young and assumed he'd be back one day, but an illness kept him from qualifying in 1984. He finally reached the 1988 Summer Games in Seoul, South Korea.
 ''I'm not for boycotts foisted upon us by governments,'' Altekruse said Wednesday. He admired the protest banners hung from the Golden Gate Bridge by Tibetan sympathizers, virtually an Olympic accomplishment of their own. On Wednesday, pro-Tibet protesters and Chinese-American citizens who want to see China have its full Olympic moment faced one another. 
 ''The Chinese government put the torchbearers in the middle,'' Tethong said. 
 For this ritual that began in 1936, any tidy balance between protest and disorder may no longer be possible.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Demonstrators facing off Wednesday during the Olympic torch's truncated visit to San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC TORCH PROTESTS (91%); OLYMPICS (90%); RUNNING (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); CLASSICS (69%); RELIGION (50%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (90%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (96%); TIBET (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); VIET NAM (79%); CANADA (79%); VIETNAM (78%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



239 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Dreams Fly Into Reality

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

DATELINE: IRVING, Tex. 

 BODY:
Among the jobs little boys dream of -- policeman, fireman, bulldozer driver -- airline pilot long held the added virtue of satisfying grown-up dreams: pay that reached $300,000 a year, 20 days a month off work, the prestige of one day commanding a $200 million airplane, and a lush retirement at 60.
 But the airline industry's financial collapse this decade did away with much of that, leaving thousands of young men -- and increasingly women -- chasing a dream toward a disappointing reality.
 ''My wife thinks I'm nuts,'' said Jason Captain, 32, of Fort Worth who left the Navy last November, walking away from $75,000-a-year lieutenant's pay for flying military brass in and out of Guantanamo Bay. 
 He started training last month to fly a 76-seat regional jet for a Northwest Airlines subsidiary and expects to make about $21,000 his first year. Like most airline pilots, Mr. Captain had his heart set on flying ''ever since I was a little kid,'' he said. ''I can't see myself in an office.''
 In recent years, he and his wife, June, were in the odd position of saving part of his military pay so they and their two sons could afford to have him work in the private sector. It could take him a decade to work his way back up to his former income. 
 He hopes, of course, to jump ultimately to the big jets at Northwest Airlines, where the most senior pilots can still make more than $150,000 a year, but there is no guarantee he will get there.
 And, with the airline industry ready to go into another swoon because of high fuel prices, Mr. Captain and other junior pilots could find themselves furloughed.
 ''You're much better off going into plumbing, from a purely financial perspective,'' said Ed Grogan, a financial planner in Gig Harbor, Wash., who has pilots among his clients.
 The military is turning out fewer pilots, so aspiring aviators increasingly attend private flight schools, emerging with as much as $150,000 in student debt. Student loan payments can exceed $1,000 a month. 
 After Sept. 11, 2001, the biggest domestic airlines reduced their fleets by hundreds of planes, so they needed fewer pilots. And through actual and threatened bankruptcies, airlines managed to cut pilot pay by 30 percent or more. Many pilots lost big parts of their pensions. Work hours increased.
 Certainly, top pay of $200,000 a year at the biggest airlines, down from $300,000, is still a nice living. 
 But cuts at big airlines were just the beginning of the decline in pilot careers. Regional airlines, which pay far less than hub-and-spoke carriers even after the pay cuts, expanded to handle much of the flying that bigger airlines had abandoned. Many new pilot jobs are like the one Mr. Captain is taking, with a rock-bottom starting wage that creeps slowly toward $100,000 a year.
 Poor pay and fewer big-airline jobs to move up to have led to fewer applicants, creating a pilot shortage that is most acute overseas but is also felt here.
 Regional airlines have had to reduce hiring standards drastically. Earlier this decade, they could insist on a candidate's having at least 1,500 hours of total flight time before an interview. Today, that minimum is 500 hours at many regional carriers. The decline is contributing to safety concerns among some experts.
 The seniority system -- a new pilot starts at the bottom at most airlines, earning the lowest pay and getting the worst shifts -- limits job-hopping. So choosing the right employer the first time around is crucial. Moving from first officer, the right seat, to captain, the left seat, brings the biggest leap in pay and status.
 Thus, Mr. Captain, who looks forward to being called Captain Captain, turned down a job at American Eagle Airlines, the regional division of American Airlines. It initially paid better, but the wait to upgrade to captain is six and a half years. At the Northwest regional carrier, Compass, which is growing, he could make captain in as little as one year.
 But things change. Network carriers like United Airlines and Delta Air Lines hire regional carriers, which are separate companies, to fly feeder routes from smaller cities into hub airports. But the big airlines renegotiate contracts every few years, often switching carriers to reduce costs. That means today's fast-growing regional airline could be laying off pilots tomorrow. 
 ''It's a nightmare,'' said Kit Darby, who retired a year ago as a United pilot and runs a pilot job fair business, Air Inc. 
 Some pilots leave the business. Paul Rice, a vice president of the Air Line Pilots Association, a pilots union, said that in previous decades nearly 100 percent of furloughed pilots came back when temporary layoffs ended. Since Sept. 11, 2001, though, 30 to 35 percent did not return when offered their old jobs.
 At Mesa Air Group, a big regional carrier, 784 pilots left last year, some moving up to hub-and-spoke network carriers, some moving laterally to other regional airlines and about 10 percent leaving the business altogether, said Michael Jayson, until recently the pilots union chief at Mesa. Turnover is high at some other regional airlines, too.
 Todd Lehmacher, 39, learned to fly as a teenager and worked a variety of airline jobs in crew scheduling and as a ticket pricing specialist and flight attendant while accumulating the flying hours to be a pilot. ''It was something I just had to do,'' he said. 
 He was hired by Mesa in August 2005, but long hours and unpleasant relations between pilots and management wore on him. 
 He sometimes slept on the plane during late shifts -- ''camping trips,'' pilots call them -- that required him to fly again early the next morning. He said he often worked a 13-hour day to get in five hours of flying time, the only hours pilots are paid for.
 Mr. Lehmacher quit last September and runs a travel agency in Phoenix that sells cruise trips to airline workers.
 Mesa officials did not return phone calls seeking comment.
 Samantha Negley did not get the flying bug until a boyfriend took her up in a four-seat Cessna in 1999. It was a bright day in San Luis Obispo, Calif., and they flew over farms, across the beach and over the ocean. ''He let me take the controls. It was amazing,'' said Ms. Negley, who is now 30.
 She graduated from college that year with a journalism degree and spent four years working odd jobs -- tending bar, substitute teaching, tutoring -- to save money for flight lessons. Landings were her favorite part.
 In an essay for a $1,500 scholarship she won to supplement her flight school costs, Ms. Negley said she planned a life around flying. ''In five years, I plan to be a captain at Mesa Airlines,'' she wrote. ''In 10 years, I plan to be a first officer with a major airline, awaiting my chance to upgrade.''
 She was accepted at a New Mexico flight school that feeds pilot candidates to Mesa and was hired in 2004. ''The day I found out was like the best day ever,'' she said. Making about $15,000 initially, and saddled with $50,000 of school debt, she moved in with her sister in Washington, flying out of Dulles Airport.
 A typical day had her up at 5 a.m., at the airport by 8 a.m., and making three flights spread out so that the last one landed about 10 p.m. Then it was wait for a hotel shuttle; sleep; get up again at 6 a.m.
 She also worked overnight shifts, sleeping across a row of seats and being awakened by a gate agent in time to brush her teeth in the plane lavatory and tuck her shirt in before passengers came aboard. ''It was crazy,'' she said.
 ''I was enjoying the landings. I was living my whole life for those three minutes a day.'' Otherwise, she thought, ''this is the worst life ever.''
 She quit last July and went to work at Mattel, where she writes copy for packaging of Hot Wheels and other toys. She makes more money and has whittled her student debt down to $30,000.
 She knows she will be home every night in Long Beach to walk the dogs. She plays beach volleyball. And became engaged in February. ''Normal job. Normal life,'' she said. ''I know I made the right decision.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jason Captain, in Fort Worth with his son Riley, 3, left the Navy and is training to be an airline pilot. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1)
 Samantha Negley gave up flying to work as a copywriter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARISSA ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) CHART: FOR PILOTS, A WIDE RANGE OF WAGES: FedEx pays pilots among the highest wages of any air carrier. At Northwest, pilots' pay was cut after a 2005 bankruptcy filing. Pinnacle, which flies mainly regional jets, pays among the lowest wages. (Source: Airlinepilotcentral.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (65%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); STUDENT LOANS (60%); FLIGHT SCHOOLS (58%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%)

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CUBA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



240 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Takeda Pays $8.8 Billion for Biotechnology Firm

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Japan's largest drug company, Takeda Pharmaceutical, agreed on Thursday to pay $8.8 billion in cash for Millennium Pharmaceuticals, one of the earliest American genomics companies, in a deal that spurred a general rise in biotechnology stocks. 
 The $25-a -- share deal represented a 53 percent premium to Millennium's closing price on Wednesday and set off speculation that other biotechnology companies might be acquired at high valuations, particularly by foreign companies that can take advantage of the weak dollar. 
 The Amex Biotechnology Index was up nearly 5 percent on Thursday. Millennium shares were up nearly 50 percent for the day, closing at $24.34, a gain of $7.99. ''Anyway you cut it, it's expensive based on today's numbers,'' Kurt von Emster, portfolio manager for the MPM BioEquities Fund, said of Takeda's purchase. He said the deal showed that biotechnology companies ''are valued more greatly by strategic buyers than they are by investors.'' 
 The acquisition will give Takeda control of Millennium's cancer drug Velcade, which is used to treat multiple myeloma, a blood cancer. Sales of Velcade in the United States reached $83.5 million in the first quarter of 2008, up 42 percent from a year earlier, in part because of new data showing the drug's effectiveness. 
 Velcade is the only approved drug that Millennium sells. Johnson & Johnson has the marketing rights for the drug elsewhere in the world, including Japan. 
 Takeda, which is based in Osaka, has been aggressive in acquisitions and licensing of products, in part to prepare for the loss of patent protection in the next few years of Actos, its diabetes drug, and Prevacid, for ulcers.
 It is making a particular thrust into the cancer area. On March 31, Takeda agreed to pay $50 million initially and up to $270 million later for the rights to an experimental ''vaccine'' to treat prostate cancer that is being developed by Cell Genesys. 
 In February, Takeda agreed to spend as much as $1.2 billion to acquire Amgen's Japanese unit and the rights to up to 13 of Amgen's experimental drugs for cancer and other diseases.
 For Millennium, based in Cambridge, Mass., the acquisition brings to a close a wild ride that did not turn out as initially planned. 
 The company was started in 1993 to harness the emerging field of genomics to develop drugs. Millennium struck about 20 alliances with other drug companies, which collectively paid Millennium about $2 billion to provide leads for new drugs. 
 In 2000, the year the completion of the Human Genome Project was announced, biotech stocks soared on the expectation that genomics would revolutionize drug discovery. Millennium's stock rose to about $90 a share that year. 
 But Millennium's genomics effort yielded meager pickings. The genomics bubble popped and the stocks of Millennium and its competitors plunged. Millennium's shares have not been above $25, the price Takeda will pay, since around the end of 2001. 
 But Millennium used the money it gathered from investors and its industry alliances to buy other companies and become a commercial drug company. 
 It bought a company called LeukoSite mainly to obtain a different cancer drug that has since made it to market but which is sold by another company. All but overlooked, at first, was another LeukoSite drug in early clinical trials -- Velcade. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); CANCER DRUGS (89%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (89%); CANCER (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (78%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (73%); PROSTATE DISEASE (73%); BLOOD DISORDERS (72%); MEN'S HEALTH (67%); PROSTATE CANCER (67%); VACCINES (65%); PATENTS (64%); DIABETES (63%)

COMPANY: MILLENNIUM PHARMACEUTICALS INC (91%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); AMGEN INC (58%); TAKEDA PHARMACEUTICAL CO LTD (58%); CELL GENESYS INC (52%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (66%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (58%); 4502 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSAKA, JAPAN (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); JAPAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



241 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; THE KITCHEN ISSUE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2002 words

HEADLINE: And Now, the Six-Figure Scullery

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn. 

 BODY:
 IT was the first day of April, overcast and chilly, and Christopher Peacock, the English kitchen designer, was giving a tour of the town that's been so good to him. 
 His dark blue Audi slid easily past the white clapboard Georgian colonials on Round Hill Road, past the Norman stone ''chateaus'' and shingle-style ''town homes,'' past the castles of the hedge-fund set, the estates worth $6 million, $10 million and $20 million, many of which, said Mr. Peacock, boasted one of his now iconic white kitchens near their collections of edgy -- and most likely British -- contemporary art. 
 At a stone Georgian number -- a kind of bespoke ''spec'' house in the Baldwin Farms area -- the painters were priming Mr. Peacock's bestseller, which he calls his Scullery kitchen, inspired by a house he saw years ago in London. It was part of the developer's check list of brands and amenities -- including nine Waterworks bathrooms, Ann Sacks tiles upstairs and down and a wine cellar with space for 4,500 bottles -- chosen to lure buyers to the $5.9 million house. 
 Emulated by everyone from movie set designers to local builders, national purveyors like Wood-Mode, Pottery Barn and Restoration Hardware (though genuine market synchronicity could also be at play), this particular white kitchen, with its gutsy chrome hardware, white marble counters, vaguely prewar aesthetic and six-figure price tag, has made Mr. Peacock not just a successful man, but also a full-fledged brand. 
 His 15-year-old company, he said, does more than just make cabinets; it delivers and installs more than 210 kitchens a year for individuals and developers in this country as well as Australia, England, France and Israel, among others, and 100 or so mud rooms, bathrooms, dressing rooms, libraries, wine tasting rooms and butler's pantries. Despite the slackening real estate and financial markets, orders are up more than 3 percent this quarter, he said.
 This fall, a Christopher Peacock Cabinetry showroom will open in San Francisco, adding to his showrooms in Greenwich, Boston, Los Angeles and Chicago; next year, he will open one in Manhattan. Starting this month, he is selling Christopher Peacock paint -- 90 shades of ''bespoke'' color, as his publicist, Lane Brooks described it, which he developed with Fine Paints of Europe (and at $125 for two-thirds of a gallon, one of the most expensive paints out there, Mr. Brooks claimed with pride) -- as well as Christopher Peacock furniture, luxuriously monastic and slightly Asian style pieces from Peacock & Beale, a tony furniture store he and the decorator Connie Beale opened on Putnam Avenue here last fall. 
 Mr. Peacock is not the first kitchen designer to capitalize on his name and the ongoing primacy of the kitchen in the American home. A few years back, Clive Christian, who is based in London and New York, and is the Liberace of the kitchen world, with his use of gargoyles, columns and crystal chandeliers, put his name on a perfume. 
 Like Mr. Peacock's paint, the perfume's staggering price -- more than $865 for 1.7 oz. at Nordstrom -- is a selling point. ''Often with luxury goods you're telling people, you want this or that,'' said Scott Salvatore, a high-end Manhattan decorator who has given his clients nine Peacock kitchens over the past decade. ''And sometimes they just don't. I think Christopher really hit a nerve. Those Italian kitchens are sexy as hell, and they're not selling here, at least not among my clients.'' 
 Faith Popcorn, the trend-spotter, said the brands doing well right now are those selling what she called authenticity. She said: ''That's the theme I'm getting from his kitchens. You look at someone's watch and say, oh, that's nice, stainless? And they say, No, platinum. While big show-offy things like the big S.U.V. would be uncool to have right now, the one thing it's still O.K. to spend on is authenticity.''
 Though new, his kitchens ''read'' as old. Lush with creamy paint, Gosford Park-like styling and chrome and sterling silver hardware at the high end, Mr. Peacock's Scullery, Refectory and Private Collection kitchens seem to have touched a nerve in a buying public that yearns for history and provenance. 
 Like the spanking new ''old'' house -- found, say, in a development designed by Robert A. M. Stern (with whom Mr. Peacock is collaborating these days) -- the kitchen is like a luxury car with retro styling.
 ''My husband wanted a Christopher Peacock kitchen -- period,'' said Lisa Skinner. Her Scullery kitchen arrived in her new Greenwich home in September, she said, over the protests of her builder, who wanted to replicate a Peacock kitchen and promised to do so for less money. 
 Ms. Skinner said her husband, Chip, who is a fund manager, ''just kept saying, 'When you spend a lot of money you go to a specialist.' '' 
 ''It wasn't because he had to have this fancy name,'' she said. ''He drives a 10-year-old Defender. He's not a Ferrari guy.'' She said the couple, originally from Nashville, spent nine years in London, imbibing the British aesthetic. 
 Milton Pedraza, chief executive of the Luxury Institute, a market research company, said the English white kitchen stands for purity and pedigree. ''People who have a brief history like Americans love something with a long lineage,'' he said. ''It imbues us with that same halo.'' 
 With aging-rock-star good looks and British accent, Mr. Peacock has been just the guy to deliver, never mind that his own provenance, as he cheerfully pointed out, involves a semidetached house in Essex, a London suburb. 
 Before he was a kitchen designer, he was a drummer in a local new-wave band called Risque. Despite having made a few records and played some well-known London clubs, he said, ''we weren't exactly making any money.'' So when the lead singer's father offered him work driving a truck for his kitchen business, it seemed prudent to take it. 
 Mr. Peacock graduated from driving trucks to designing kitchens, and then left for Heal's, the English furniture store. He has been drawing kitchens ever since: for SieMatic, which brought him to New York in 1987, and for Smallbone, for whom he opened a showroom in Greenwich, just before the last recession, which cost him his job there. He's been on his own since 1993, when a former customer asked him to build a white kitchen with a black granite counter in nearby Bedford. 
 Mr. Peacock and his wife, Jayne, who was the best friend of the lead singer in his old band, live in Wilton in a new colonial with their three sons, one dog, a white kitchen and two dishwashers, he said. Still a musician, on the weekends, he plays drums in a cover band called ''Bob's Your Uncle.''
 Mr. Peacock likes to say that the best kitchen is a Manhattan galley kitchen, and said he spends a lot of time telling clients ''that they aren't who they think they are.'' ''They're not going to be having huge dinner parties, with caterers using a pantry as a staging area every weekend.'' His first act is often to cut 25 percent of the space out of new home kitchens. 
 For the record, a kitchen designer is not a craftsman, and Mr. Peacock is no Norm Abrams. 
 ''People think I'm a master carpenter,'' he said. ''But you do not want me amid hand tools. I draw things, I don't build them.''
 For most of the '90s he drew pretty French country kitchens, as was the style then. ''There was a lot of yellow, and glazing, and stencils of roosters and fruit baskets everywhere,'' he said. His kitchens were always beautifully made, first by local carpenters, and then, as business grew, by his factory in Wardensville, W. Va., which he bought near the end of the '90s. It takes roughly 12 weeks, once a plan has been approved, to make and deliver a kitchen. 
 Early in this decade, Mr. Peacock was expanding rapidly. Then Sept. 11 happened, and ''everything just stopped,'' he said. ''I almost lost my shirt.'' Asked to design a kitchen for the Kip's Bay Decorator Show House the next spring, Mr. Peacock sketched a ''plain white kitchen with some cool hardware,'' he said. ''It was a reaction to all that pretty stuff. And everybody wanted it. The white kitchen just took off, and we've been labeled with it ever since.'' 
 Not that he's complaining. ''It's what put us on the map,'' he said.
 Last week, there were Molton Brown candles flickering alluringly in every room of the Peacock showroom here, and hushed groups at the vast wood and marble islands: clients, all women, and their designers parsing the meaning of honed statuary marble versus semi-honed breccia imperiale marble. Mr. Peacock showed off the leather straps on shelves in the Refectory kitchen, the cunning stainless steel lip on a garbage drawer in the Scullery kitchen, and the sterling silver knobs and hinges in the Private Collection kitchen. 
 Aren't those a lot of work?
 ''The person who buys this kitchen isn't polishing their own hardware,'' said Mr. Peacock, stating the obvious. The Private Collection, he said, is an heirloom-quality room, with more detailing, hand-selected woods, those silver knobs, and a higher price, about 25 to 30 percent more than his other kitchens, he said, which on average, including the appliances and countertops he recommends, go for $185,000.
 Tellingly, the high cost of certain products, as Mr. Pedraza of the Luxury Institute pointed out, might boost sales. Mr. Pedraza cited a recent study by researchers at the Stanford University Graduate School of Business and the California Institute of Technology which mapped the brains of volunteers as they drank red wine. Though the wine offered was the same cheap plonk ($5 a bottle), the pleasure receptors of the brains of the study group lit up more when the subjects were told the price was $45. ''Knowing you are able to pay for the best is a very special thing, and it gives you real endorphins,'' he said. 
 Donald Albrecht, curator of architecture and design at the Museum of the City of New York, offered a different analysis about the draw of a Peacock kitchen. The latch of the Refectory kitchen, which recalls antique ice-box hardware, is ''the Humvee of hardware,'' Mr. Albrecht said. 
 ''It's a lot of elaborate protection for just a kitchen cabinet, and of course we live in a time where people are obsessed about protection,'' he said. 
 Certainly they are still obsessed with their kitchens. If whiz-bang gadgetry -- appliance garages! smart refrigerators! -- marked the kitchen in the first part of this decade, nearer the decade's end the space has become a philosophical arena, with the locavore and Slow Food movements transforming the very act of cooking into something political. 
 ''The kitchen is less and less of a showplace, with people relying on convenience foods, and more of a place to make healthy, fresh and local food you prepare with your family,'' said Amy Elbert, senior architecture editor at Traditional Home magazine, who featured a Peacock kitchen in her coming special issue on kitchens.
 Mr. Peacock concurred. ''I have lately seen a strong movement back to the basics of what a kitchen is all about,'' he said. ''With everything going on in our world and the environment, the kitchen is more and more of a hub. It's where it all comes together.''
 He described the kitchen as a sensual experience, a place for smelling, tasting and touching. ''It's a caveman-type thing,'' he said. 
 A Designer's Punch List
 Here are 10 items Christopher Peacock said clients have asked for but don't often use, and 10 items they don't think to ask for, but should consider.
 SELDOM USED
 Pot-filling faucet
 Pantry dishwasher
 or refrigerator
 Kitchen desk
 Trash compactor
 Large microwave
 Rangetop grill
 Two-tier island countertops
 Large island
 Appliance garage
 GOOD TO HAVE
 Refrigerator and freezer drawers
 Two dishwashers
 Warming drawers
 Small microwave
 Bookshelves
 Tray storage
 Roll-out drawers
 Message center
 Marble countertops
 Wood countertops

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAN AND BRAND: Christopher Peacock's kitchens have made him a full-fledged brand. The family of James Skinner, 13, chose the Scullery design, above left, for their Greenwich, Conn., home. Peacock kitchens were also chosen by Jacqueline Segura, above right, with her daughter, Francesca, 12, in Greenwich
and Brenda Kelly Kramer, below, with her son Cooper, 4, in Chappaqua, N.Y.
THE LATEST: Petra Roberts, a decorator in Norwalk, Conn., with Christopher Peacock at his showroom in Greenwich.
SMALL TOUCHES: Peacock cabinets feature details like a designer nameplate, above
a spice drawer, top left
 and a latch, left, recalling an antique icebox. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES (KRAMER) AND DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (89%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); FURNITURE STORES (65%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) CONNECTICUT, USA (85%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (85%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPE (73%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



242 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; THE KITCHEN ISSUE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: Not Your Style? They'll Take It

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
OVER the past several years, wealthy home buyers, conscious of the status signaled by decor, have spared no expense in customizing their homes. Whether in new multimillion-dollar condos or in previously owned homes, they have been installing their own visions, tearing out brand-new or almost-new kitchens and getting rid of Sub-Zero refrigerators, Bosch dishwashers and custom-designed Italian cabinetry. In the New York area, lightly used luxury appliances are often carted away by the architects, contractors and building supers involved in these jobs. In some cases, they have wound up in the trash.
 That's why enterprising recyclers like Steve Feldman are stepping in, persuading homeowners in the New York area to donate their unused or lightly used appliances to the charity he founded called Green Demolitions. He sends in a crew to dismantle and remove the kitchens, and provides paperwork for a charitable tax deduction. 
 Then he sells the appliances and cabinets for a fraction of their original retail price through his stores in Bethel, N.Y., Honesdale, Pa., and Norwalk, Conn. and through his Web site, greendemolitions.org. He chose Bethel and Honesdale, he said, to attract owners of second homes in the Catskills and the Poconos. He started the Norwalk store because it is in the heart of donation country: the wealthy suburban stretches of Fairfield County in Connecticut. 
 ''What we have comes from Manhattan town houses, the best of Westchester, the best of Fairfield,'' he said. Mr. Feldman, who says he is a recovering alcohol and substance abuser who has been clean for 20 years, said he donates the profits to the All Addicts Anonymous addiction recovery program based in Hankins, N.Y. He said that in 2007, sales from Green Demolitions generated $1.1 million for the organization. 
 Ellen Peskin, a housewife who is renovating her Upper West Side apartment kitchen for the second time in eight years, is donating her $25,000 custom-made glazed cream-colored kitchen cabinets and her $5,000 four-burner Viking range to Green Demolitions. She is opening her narrow kitchen to the living and dining area, and is installing a six-burner Viking range and new teal-stained wood cabinets. Her current kitchen, she said, which will soon be removed by Green Demolitions, is an uncomfortable place to cook. ''Only one person could fit in the kitchen,'' she said. ''I would have to open the refrigerator a certain way.''
 Mr. Feldman, who worked in radio before starting his organization seven years ago, found that persuading homeowners to donate kitchens takes more than just talking up the environmental benefits of recycling. He has to make the process simple and financially appealing. Many people doing renovations do not have the time or mental energy to think about dismantling and reselling their kitchens, he said. 
 ''There's never been a really easy way to donate their kitchens,'' he said. People are willing to donate, he said, when they see they that will save the cost of having materials removed and carted away. He tries to have his staff start and finish the removal of a kitchen within a few hours.
 His 33 employees answer donation phone lines, remove kitchens and run stores. While they focus on the tristate area and eastern Pennsylvania, they will go far afield if the resale value outweighs the cost of removal and pickup.
 The benefits sold Jerry and Alexis Lombardo, who decided to donate the kitchen in their Upper East Side apartment, worth about $30,000 when it was new. They had been thinking about buying a larger apartment but because of the uncertain economy decided to renovate instead. Mr. Lombardo said that while he and his wife like to recycle, they also liked saving $2,000 on demolition and disposal costs and getting a tax write-off once Green Demolitions sells the items from their kitchen. He didn't consider keeping any of his appliances.
 ''When people redo their kitchens, they want everything new,'' he said.
 Mr. Feldman said he got started by calling architects, contractors and kitchen designers to ask for donations. ''It was word of mouth through a handful of professionals in Greenwich, New Canaan, Westport,'' he said. 
 Last year, he received 225 kitchens, with 28 of them being less than seven years old and valued at more than $90,000. This year, he said, 14 of the 48 kitchens that have been donated are relatively new and valued at more than $90,000. He said that so many wealthy homeowners never use their kitchens or have maids and chefs who take such good care of them that they look almost new. He received an 11-year-old kitchen that had never been used, an 18-year-old kitchen with appliances that were never used and a 25-year-old kitchen with virtually unused cherry cabinets.
 ''Age is not the factor. It's really the use,'' he said. He takes individual appliances as well as full kitchens. 
 Evan and Liz Smith, who live in Westchester County, paid $25,000 for a kitchen that Green Demolitions took out of a house in New Canaan, worth about $100,000 when it was installed. Their kitchen came with Premier brand cabinets, two Sub-Zero refrigerators, a Bosch dishwasher and a six-burner Thermidor stove.
 Although the price was appealing, there were extra costs. The dishwasher didn't work and Green Demolitions had no obligation to repair it; the stove had to be rewired to accommodate natural gas. The Smiths said the installation only worked because they had a patient contractor willing to take a kitchen custom-designed for one home and install it in theirs. 
 The Smiths are passionate cooks -- Mr. Smith once owned a restaurant in Durham, N.C., and attended cooking school in Tuscany. They said their recycled kitchen is far more luxurious than what they would have been able to afford new. 
 ''It's like a vacation in your home,'' said Ms. Smith. ''Nobody can actually believe that we made it work.''
 Their old kitchen was taken away by a day laborer who was working for the contractor, a typical situation. In Manhattan, architects sometimes put their hands up for the luxe kitchens that are rejected. Arpad Baksa, an architect who designed the conversion of the Hit Factory condominium building in Hell's Kitchen, is waiting to get $20,000 Valcucine kitchen cabinets from a buyer who asked the developer not to install them. He plans to use the cabinets in his second home on the New Jersey shore. Mr. Baksa predicts that roughly a third of the buyers will tear out their kitchens and bathrooms in the 27-unit building, where apartments cost $1.3 million to $4 million. He said buyers typically install something suited to their taste regardless of what quality appliances a developer installs.
 ''If I'm a $4.5 million buyer, money is not an object. It becomes, Who am I? Do I really want the same cabinets as the $1 million buyer on the second floor?'' He said he expected that many of those luxury condo kitchens would land in the hands of contractors and architects like himself. ''They definitely will not end up in the dump,'' he said. 
 Although the trend nationally is toward spending less on kitchens, high-end renovations appear to be continuing in the New York area. Rita-Luisa Garces, a senior designer with Bilotta Kitchens of New York, said that wealthy homeowners are moving forward with their kitchen renovations and have not canceled projects -- despite the recession warnings hurting Wall Street. She sees a steady demand for kitchens with $85,000 to $150,000 cabinets and appliances worth $25,000 to $40,000.
 ''The people in the luxury market are fairly recession-proof,'' she said. ''They're evaluating the costs a little bit more. But they're not stopping them.''
 The Last Owner Only Cooked on Weekends
 A GROWING number of organizations help people donate or buy previously installed kitchens. In New York City, the nonprofit organization Build It Green! offers kitchen items as well as other recycled materials. Justin Green, its program director, said a Valcucine kitchen, a Dada kitchen and a Sub-Zero refrigerator are currently available. The organization will not dismantle kitchens for donors but hopes to do so by midsummer. Profits go to the Solar One Education Center in Manhattan. Build It Green! is at 3-17 26th Avenue at 4th Street in Astoria, Queens, www.bignyc.org.
 In New Jersey, kitchen renovators can check out Recycling the Past in Barnegat, www.recyclingthepast.com/Kitchen-Bath.asp.
 In the Chicago area, Island Girl Salvage in Elk Grove Village offers pre-1950s sinks and cabinetry: www.islanddgirlsalvage.com. Murco Recycling Enterprises Inc., also in the Chicago area, allows buyers to bid on and remove fixtures before demolition; www.murco.net.
 In Palo Alto, Calif., kitchen equipment is available at Driftwood Salvage, www.driftwoodsalvage.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PREOWNED: A Green Demolitions crew dismantles Jerry and Alexis Lombardo's kitchen, above left. Sophia Smith, 6, and Wesley Smith, 3, above, in the recycled kitchen their parents bought for $25,000. Arpad Baksa, left, in a Hit Factory kitchen with $20,000 cabinets. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES, ABOVE LEFT
GABRIELE STABILE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES, BELOW LEFT
 SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES, ABOVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (76%); CHARITIES (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); MOUNTAINS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (87%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



243 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: New President Gains Leverage After South Korean Elections

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
President Lee Myung-bak's conservative party had a slim parliamentary majority early Thursday after elections, giving Mr. Lee some political leverage to make life easier for the country's business conglomerates but more difficult for North Korea's rulers. 
 With nearly all of the votes counted from Wednesday's election, election officials and television stations said Mr. Lee's Grand National Party had won 153 seats in the 299-member National Assembly. The current leading party in the National Assembly, the liberal United Democratic Party, appeared to have taken 81 seats, down sharply from the 136 seats it had controlled. Other seats were split among independent candidates and smaller parties.
 Mr. Lee's party had appealed for majority support, saying that it wanted to enact Mr. Lee's business-friendly reform bills aimed at rejuvenating South Korea's economy after a decade of relatively modest growth.
 South Korean voters appeared to have given Mr. Lee what he wanted, though with some reservations. In a sign of rising political apathy only a month and a half after Mr. Lee's inauguration, voter turnout, at 46 percent, was the lowest in the country's 20-year history of democratic elections. That low rate occurred even though the country's election commission tried to woo people to the polls with discount coupons worth 2,000 won, or $2, for use at government-run parks, museums and parking lots.
 Political analysts also said a bare majority would not be enough for Mr. Lee, who has adopted a tough line toward North Korea, to push through his bold initiatives, like building a waterway across South Korea, without compromises with the opposition, as well as with a faction within his party controlled by Park Geun-hye, who had unsuccessfully vied for the party's presidential candidacy.
 Since taking office on Feb. 25, Mr. Lee has vowed to reverse the policies of his two liberal predecessors, who had shipped huge amounts of economic aid to North Korea with few strings attached and had tried to curtail the power of big businesses.
 Mr. Lee, a former corporate executive, had been delaying action on a series of pro-business bills, as well as parliamentary ratification of a free-trade deal with the United States, until his party took control in the National Assembly.
 ''With today's vote, I think the people have thrown their weight behind President Lee's efforts to save the economy,'' said Kang Jae-sup, chairman of the Grand National Party, after television stations flashed exit poll results.
 The results were crushing for the United Democratic Party. ''We will accept the people's message with humility,'' said the party chief, Sohn Hak-kyu.
 Mr. Lee angered North Korea by declaring that his government would drastically reduce aid and undertake no new joint economic projects with the impoverished North unless it abandoned its nuclear weapons programs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (71%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



244 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: The Iraq Hearings, and the Skeptics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Petraeus Urges Halt in Weighing New Cut in Force'' (front page, April 9):
 How many times have we heard that the latest war strategy is successful? The only difference this time is that, according to Gen. David H. Petraeus, lasting success may take many years to achieve. 
 We should have never started the Iraq war; it was bungled from the beginning; we have lost our place of leadership in the world; and there is no end in sight. 
 As bad as it is for Americans, only a small fraction of us bear the brunt of the war. For the Iraqis it is a disaster, hundreds of thousands maimed and killed by coalition bombs and sectarian violence, millions of Iraqi refugees, young jobless men, easy recruits for Al Qaeda.
 Some of our senators and representatives say the Iraqis should step up to the plate and reconcile their differences; others say we made the mess and we should stay in Iraq until there is a return to stability. I do not believe that either is possible. I think we should get out of the way as quickly as possible. 
 As is the case in many regions that have been colonized or invaded by foreign powers, it will take generations to repair the damage we have done. I hope that future presidents will learn from history, Vietnam and Iraq, and will never again try to ''liberate'' a country from its own dictator. 
 Susan Stern Newton, Mass., April 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The merry-go-round in Iraq continues with no end in sight. Gen. David H. Petraeus has no more of an idea how to get out of Iraq than President Bush has why we invaded in the first place.
 The testimony of Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker and General Petraeus could have been fast-forwarded from last year's charade. The only summary that's clear is that the Bush administration is once again buying time through Ambassador Crocker and General Petraeus to pass this costly and shameful mess off to the next administration. 
 Dave Walker North Dartmouth, Mass., April 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Gen. David H. Petraeus's own words spell out the situation in Iraq quite clearly. If it is ''fragile and reversible'' after five years, 4,000-plus lives of American service people and untold billions of our treasure, then it is fruitless and futile to continue. 
 Bob Newman New York, April 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Lack of success after five years equals failure, no matter how you modify the status assessment.
 Gunther Steinberg Portola Valley, Calif., April 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Sadly, Tuesday's Congressional inquiry was another diversion from our central goal. Why haven't we yet been able to capture Osama bin Laden? 
 Anne Blaisdell Draznik Cincinnati, April 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 It's too bad that the American public for the most part does not understand the political underpinnings of flag officers -- generals and admirals. They are products of the political system that made them flag officers in the first place, which means that those whose views are too far astray are few and far between.
 Gen. David H. Petraeus unfortunately has to keep in step with the system. As for Senator John McCain and his views, as with President Bush's views on maintaining the course in Iraq, like General Petraeus they may be right, but the United States' dilemma with our financial system says they are both wrong. 
 The well is dry and maybe the streams of money from China and the Middle East that are quenching our thirst may soon also dry up. 
 Max E. Newman Surprise, Ariz., April 9, 2008
 The writer is a retired Army colonel.
 To the Editor: 
 After watching Gen. David H. Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker testify, I think it became apparent that it is impossible to have an intelligent inquiry into the situation in Iraq without an agreement among the participants on what the various terms such as ''winning,'' ''progress,'' ''enemy,'' ''surge'' and ''Al Qaeda'' mean.
 The discussion cannot be comprehensible when the individuals all have a different concept of the understanding of those ambiguous words. It's all so confusing. How can the American people understand what is going on in Iraq if our senators, generals and government representatives don't speak the same language? 
 Chase Webb Gresham, Ore., April 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''1984,'' George Orwell immortalized the image of politicians using language to mislead or deceive. When President Bush decided to escalate our involvement in the Iraq war last year, he opened his Orwellian dictionary and labeled it a surge. The mainstream press fell right in step with him, and has ever after used that term to describe the troop increase. 
 Now we hear that Gen. David H. Petraeus wants troop reductions put on hold. This raises the question, When is a surge an escalation? The answer is, It was right from the start. I call on the media to refer to it as such from here on.
 Burton J. Kushner Madison, Wis., April 9, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 Re ''At Hearings, a Chance to Explain Iraq Views and Audition as Commander in Chief'' (news article, April 9):
 While I applaud Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama for pointing out some of the failings of the surge, like the lack of political progress, and the increasing influence of Iran, a more central question was left unasked: Why do we continue the occupation of Iraq against the wishes of a majority of its citizens? 
 Matthew Beller Bronx, April 9, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''Toil and Trouble'' (column, April 9), Maureen Dowd writes: ''Senator Evan Bayh summed up the Dada nature of our plan in Iraq: 'We'll know when we get there, and we don't know when we're going to get there.' '' 
 To that I would add: And we don't know where ''there'' is!
 Patricia M. McDowell Sechelt, British Columbia
 April 9, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL SLOAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TERRORISM (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); REFUGEES (72%); AL-QAEDA (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



245 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Another Heck of a Job

 BODY:
Any remaining hope for a modern, efficient and precise census in 2010 has cratered, brought low by managerial incompetence and the administration's relentless antipathy for effective government.
 The latest problem is the Census Bureau's failure-- after nearly four years and almost $600 million -- to develop a reliable hand-held computer system for counting millions of Americans who are not counted by mail. Census takers will now have to use far less accurate paper and pencil. At a hearing last week Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez told lawmakers that the agency would need up to an additional $232 million this year to ramp up systems to accommodate the paper count, including new forms, instructions and training materials and redesigned management and logistical support. 
 Congress had already been briefed on the hand-held mess. What came as a shock was Mr. Gutierrez's message that the White House insists on cutting other Commerce Department programs to come up with new money for the census. Most of the targeted cuts are from programs the White House tried to kill or reduce in 2008, but were rescued by Congress: such as spending for the National Institute of Standards and Technology, marine sanctuaries, pollution control, Chesapeake Bay restoration and economic development grants for Appalachia.
 It is petty for the White House to use the census as a way to challenge the outcome of a lost budget battle. It is unconscionable to hold the census hostage to such demands when administration officials are the ones responsible for the Census Bureau's dysfunction. 
 In the next few weeks, President Bush will request an emergency appropriation for Iraq. Lawmakers, both Democrat and Republican, must fight to attach the census money to that bill; the amount comes to less than one day's spending for the war. The census is central to American democracy, used to determine the number of each state's congressional representatives and electoral votes, the boundaries of electoral districts and the allocation of federal tax dollars. The Bush administration won't save the census. But Congress can.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (71%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (69%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (66%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS & TECHNOLOGY (55%)

PERSON: CARLOS GUTIERREZ (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



246 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Partisan Tangle Over Trade Pact With Colombia

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A drive by President Bush to win passage of a modest trade deal with Colombia erupted Wednesday into an angry partisan confrontation between the White House and House Democrats, with both sides using trade as a surrogate for an election-year battle over jobs, national security and the sinking economy.
 The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, took the White House by surprise when she announced plans Wednesday to block a vote on the Colombia accord. The move effectively holds the measure hostage until Mr. Bush agrees to more economic relief for Americans.
 Ms. Pelosi's action would scrap House rules that require a vote within 90 days of the measure's being submitted by the president. It came only two days after Mr. Bush's effort to gain the upper hand by sending the Colombia bill to Congress with the understanding that a vote would be required this year. 
 At stake for the Bush administration and Republicans is a deal that business leaders have pushed for and that would provide support for a crucial American ally. Democrats, meanwhile, feel caught between organized labor, which opposes the deal and wants Colombia to do more to stop killings of union leaders, and business groups, many of which donate to Democratic campaigns.
 Hastily assembling at the White House, a team of cabinet members led by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. assailed Ms. Pelosi's move as damaging ties to Colombia, encouraging anti-American forces in the region and jeopardizing the economy.
 In the background was a rich brew of presidential politics. Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumed Republican nominee, supports the deal. But the Democrats, Senators Barack Obama of Illinois and Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, oppose it. A top aide to Ms. Clinton, Mark Penn, resigned recently after it was disclosed that he had advised Colombia on ways to promote the pact.
 Ms. Pelosi and other Democrats said they had earlier beseeched the White House not to submit the agreement-- which involves a small part of United States trade -- without doing more to help homeowners and the unemployed as the economy weakens.
 ''We're first and foremost here to look out for the concerns of America's working families,'' Ms. Pelosi said, adding that she understood the importance of relations with Colombia, a country that has for years tapped American aid to battle narcotics traffickers and leftist insurgents.
 ''I do take this action with deep respect for the people of Colombia, and hope, and will be sure, that any message they receive is one of respect for their country,'' she said.
 But Ms. Rice said at the White House that the trade deal, which would lower tariffs in both countries, was vital to American security interests. Colombia, she said, has been a crucial ally and had come back ''from the brink of being a failed state'' and needed help to stand up to ''very hostile anti-American states and forces in Latin America.''
 As is customary for administration officials, she did not elaborate on which states she was referring to, but the administration is locked in a battle for influence in Latin America with the president of Venezuela, Hugo Chavez.
 ''What will it say if the United States turns its back now on Colombia?'' Ms. Rice asked.
 At the heart of the row this week was what Democrats say is an ambivalent attitude among many of them toward trade, despite the fact that organized labor, many environmental groups and many Democratic voters in states with aging industrial bases are unalterably opposed.
 Veterans of the administration of President Bill Clinton, who championed trade openings with Mexico, Canada and the World Trade Organization, argue that the United States has more to gain than it has to lose from trade. 
 Like Republicans, Democrats raise campaign money from agribusiness, financial services like insurance and brokerage houses, high-tech manufacturing, the entertainment business and other sectors dependent on exports. Many Democratic lawmakers agree with the administration that killing trade accords merely opens the market for American competitors.
 ''If Colombians don't buy our tractors, they'll buy them from Japan,'' Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez said. ''If they don't buy our wheat, they'll buy it from Canada. And if they don't buy our high-tech equipment, they'll buy it from China.''
 Colombia and its president, Alvaro Uribe, are also popular among Democrats, who have largely supported the multibillion-dollar aid packages. 
 But the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and other labor groups say Colombia's record in curbing the assassinations of labor organizers by armed groups remains poor, despite improvements in recent years.
 Republican and Democratic strategists say as many as 50 House Democrats would be tempted to vote for the Colombia pact but do not want to defy Ms. Pelosi. What many of them want most of all, many say, is to avoid a difficult vote.
 The agreement was actually signed in 2006, and the president at any time had the right to submit it and get an up-or-down vote under the rules by which Congress authorizes a president to negotiate trade accords. The White House was hoping to get such a vote to force Democrats to choose.
 Ms. Pelosi's announcement that she would change the rules provoked cries of outrage from the White House of unfair play. ''By the House unilaterally changing its rules, which it can do, it is upending decades of U.S. trade policy and U.S. trade law,'' said Susan C. Schwab, the top United States trade envoy.
 What remained unknown at the end of a day of acrimony was whether the Democrats might be willing to let the accord go to a vote if the White House made concessions on economic stimulus measures that unions supported or whether the White House was willing to make such concessions. The White House has pushed back against a second stimulus package, saying the first needs time to work.
 A senior administration official, speaking anonymously to discuss internal negotiations, said the administration had offered to add spending programs to the trade deal to help workers in the United States. But another administration official said the offers from the White House were more limited.
 ''We've been trying for months to get the Democrats to tell us, 'What is the deal?' '' the first official said. ''What is the list? Give us the 'ask'? The candy store was open. They didn't want to take it.''
 But Democrats said the White House had been adamant in refusing to offer such incentives, despite the fact that Ms. Pelosi again told Mr. Bush, at what was described as a testy meeting on Wednesday afternoon at the White House, that the accord was not dead if he would be forthcoming.
 ''The fact is, this could very easily be worked out,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel, the Illinois Democrat and House Democratic Caucus leader who prides himself on being brusque sometimes. ''We need something, infrastructure spending, a new stimulus package, a kids' health bill. They were being totally arrogant. And I think I know something about arrogance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker Nancy Pelosi, center, and Senator Harry Reid, majority leader, right, and lawmakers after meeting with President Bush. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); FAMILY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); NANCY PELOSI (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (77%); HARRY REID (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



247 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Vexed Cry of a Thwarted Governor: 'Wait Till Next Year'

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Sitting at his desk, the American flag behind him, Gov. David A. Paterson looked into a camera and asked viewers to call the ''F.B.I. or Interpol.'' 
 He went on to explain that he was tied to his chair, being held hostage in Albany, promising that he would try to do the people's business even though ''a gun is being pointed at my head.''
 The satirical video appearance, sent to a political dinner on Monday night and later posted on YouTube, was Mr. Paterson's attempt to portray himself as a resister to the dysfunction of Albany. But in his debut budget negotiations, the new governor was mostly a phantom presence. 
 Last week, he flew to his wife's 47th-birthday party in Manhattan amid the final stages of horse-trading. On Tuesday, as a deal was being completed, he was at Shea Stadium for opening day. And while he did spend considerable time in the capital, it was almost entirely behind closed doors as he hammered out the state's new $122 billion budget in secret, adhering to an old Albany tradition. 
 The few times he did speak publicly, Governor Paterson said he was trying to hang tough on spending and keep the Legislature in line. But his effect seemed limited. By the end of the process, he vowed to get really tough, do some ''hard-core cutting'' and ''tighten our belts'' -- next year.
 Certainly Mr. Paterson, who is seen in Albany as an accidental governor, is much different from his fiery -- and ultimately self-immolating -- predecessor, Eliot Spitzer. In his first week, he introduced himself to New York by confessing to several extramarital affairs and then saying that he had used cocaine in his 20s. 
 So it was on the serious matters of the state budget, being finished amid a growing fiscal crisis, that the governor's makeshift staff hoped to establish his bona fides. Assistants suggested that Mr. Paterson, with more than two decades of legislative experience, would navigate the process more deftly than Mr. Spitzer, who seemed to spend all of his brief tenure picking fights with lawmakers in both parties. 
 But Mr. Paterson had to contend with two seasoned political leaders -- Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a fellow Democrat, and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate's Republican leader -- as well as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whose congestion pricing plan was coming to a head at the same time as the budget. 
 He succeeded in some areas, including beating back an effort by Mr. Silver to raise taxes on residents earning $1 million or more a year. 
 But he did not leave much of an imprint on the process, ultimately seeming little more than a bystander. First, Mr. Paterson's assistants pushed to conclude a budget by the March 31 deadline, a tall order for a governor who took office on March 17. That did not work. Then they tried to help the mayor pass his congestion pricing plan. That also failed. 
 In some ways, it was almost as if he were reprising his former role as leader of the powerless Democratic minority in the State Senate -- more critic than participant.
 His own assessment of the budget that emerged was not pretty. In recent days, he said he did not want to criticize the financial bureaucrats who had built the budget before he became their boss, then went on to say they should have become aware of the looming fiscal crisis in a state that depends on the increasingly shaky returns from Wall Street.
 ''You don't need three straight months'' of bad news, he said at a breakfast meeting in Manhattan on Tuesday morning, ''to know we're in a recession. You can feel it everywhere you go.''
 Talking to civic leaders at the meeting, sponsored by the Association for a Better New York, Mr. Paterson criticized the budget he inherited as ''too big and too bloated,'' lamented the secretive negotiations he presided over as ''not nearly transparent enough,'' and said it would have been ''much more foresighted'' if the state had stuck to holding growth to the inflation rate ''rather than a rate that ballooned out a lot of our revenue forecasts and our expenditures.''
 He said the government had ''hoodwinked and cajoled'' homeowners in this and previous budgets by sending out measly rebate checks that barely offset rising property taxes. He said that the government had not adopted austerity measures like other states and ''has to do better than what we are doing.''
 Given the circumstances, perhaps the new governor should get some kind of pass.
 But the end result was not exactly heartening. Among the most troubling indicators was that so many of the lobbyists and lawmakers prowling the Capitol's halls seemed happy with the results: a nearly 5 percent increase in spending, almost twice the rate of inflation, and a number of favorable outcomes for special interest groups, such as the reversal of plans introduced by Mr. Spitzer and supported by the mayor to use student test scores to help determine teacher tenure. 
 Mr. Silver said on Wednesday that he had ''never been more proud'' of his members, while Mr. Bruno, in a speech on the Senate floor, brushed aside talk of fiscal gloom, saying: ''I don't want to be one of the pessimists who says the sky is falling, we're going over a cliff, it is doomsday.''
 But Assemblyman Joel M. Miller, a Dutchess County Republican, voted against the budget for the first time in 14 years, warning that it ''sends a message of absolute irresponsibility.''
 ''For us to hope that the economy will improve tomorrow is sheer foolishness,'' Mr. Miller said in a speech explaining his vote.
 Governor Paterson, for his part, said he was ''very, very fearful of the national economy'' and what it might mean for the state's bottom line. 
 ''I think we passed a sound budget,'' he said on Wednesday, ''but I don't think that we left ourselves enough room.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, left, brushed aside talk of fiscal gloom on Wednesday. Gov. David A. Paterson expressed concern about the new budget. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); COCAINE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL POLICE ORGANIZATION (INTERPOL) (84%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



248 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Housing Aid Advancing In Congress

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congress and the Bush administration clashed on Wednesday over how best to help homeowners in danger of foreclosure but seemed to unite around the need for additional government action.
 As legislation aimed at stabilizing the housing market advanced on both sides of the Capitol, the administration maneuvered to pre-empt the most sweeping initiatives proposed by Democrats. 
 The administration said it would widen its existing program to help troubled homeowners by loosening eligibility rules for refinanced mortgages insured by the federal government. 
 Democrats said they would push ahead with their own efforts but they viewed the administration's plan as a step toward consensus on help for homeowners. That set off an alarm among some conservative Republicans who argue the government will only make things worse, in their view, bailing out greedy lenders and irresponsible home buyers.
 At a meeting at the White House on Wednesday afternoon, Democratic Congressional leaders urged President Bush to join them in pursuing more aggressive aid for struggling homeowners. Mr. Bush, however, said he preferred a more restrained approach, a view that was echoed by Republican lawmakers at the meeting, aides said.
 Still, Republicans were fractured over the housing issue, with Senate Republicans supporting a housing bill that the White House has threatened to veto. That relatively modest bill, which includes tax breaks, money to counsel troubled borrowers and $7,000 toward the purchase of a home in foreclosure, was nearing completion with final passage expected Thursday.
 The commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration, Brian D. Montgomery, announced the administration's new plan at a House Financial Services Committee hearing on legislation favored by Democrats, which would provide for a much broader expansion of federally insured loans and additional aid to local and state governments.
 Mr. Montgomery said the expansion of an existing mortgage insurance program, called F.H.A. Secure, would help as many as 100,000 additional homeowners by the end of 2008. He disputed the Democrats' projections of how many people their bill could help and he urged Congress not to intercede too forcefully in the real estate market.
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and the chairman of the Financial Services Committee, has put forward a more expansive plan that he has said could help as many as 1.5 million troubled borrowers.
 Both the plan supported by Democrats and the administration's plan seek to stabilize the battered housing market by allowing a homeowner, who may now owe more than his home is worth, to get out of an expensive adjustable-rate mortgage and refinance into a more stable and affordable 30-year loan backed by the federal government.
 Mr. Frank, who opened Wednesday's proceedings sarcastically noting the ''coincidence'' between his hearing and the administration's announcement, immediately sought to use the new proposal to blunt criticism from Republican lawmakers who just moments earlier had argued against additional government help for troubled borrowers. 
 In an interview later in the day, Mr. Frank said he was encouraged by the tenor of Mr. Montgomery's responses to questions. 
 ''They are moving closer,'' Mr. Frank said of the administration's plan. ''It's recognizing that this is going to happen, and trying to get some of the credit.'' 
 Mr. Frank predicted that Congress and the White House would ultimately reach a deal.
 Still, big differences remain between Mr. Frank's proposal and the administration's plan, reflecting a wider philosophical divide over how best to address problems in the housing market. 
 Many Republicans, including Mr. Bush, say there is only so much that government can do, and that taxpayer money should not be put at risk.
 Mr. Frank and other Democrats have urged more aggressive help for homeowners, suggesting that the wider economy faced even more serious damage if a wave of foreclosures occurred.
 In a letter Wednesday to the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, two of Mr. Bush's top advisers harshly criticized the Democrats' legislation. They said the administration opposes money for local governments to buy foreclosed properties. The Senate bill includes $4 billion for this purpose, and Mr. Frank has proposed $10 billion. They also said the administration opposes the tax credit for home buyers, saying it was a waste of money. 
 In his testimony, Mr. Montgomery, the F.H.A. commissioner, said that the agency would relax its underwriting rules to allow borrowers who have had up to two late mortgage payments in the last year to qualify for a new federally insured loan, at the traditional maximum of 97 percent of the home's current value. 
 Mr. Montgomery said that applicants who were three months behind on their mortgage would potentially qualify for a loan of up to 90 percent of their home's value. He called the plan ''appropriately tailored to reach homeowners who have demonstrated their commitment to making on-time payments, even during times of financial distress.'' 
 Borrowers with F.H.A.-backed loans must also pay insurance premiums to protect the government and taxpayers in the event of default. Mr. Montgomery said that the administration planned to make pricing more flexible so that riskier borrowers pay higher premiums. 
 Mr. Montgomery, in his testimony, said the new plan would help ''homeowners who are working hard to fulfill their obligations.'' 
 But Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas, said the approach was misguided. ''The White House is going down the wrong road in bringing in a massive government bailout.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration, Brian D. Montgomery, right, announced a new plan Wednesday.
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, has a plan that he says could help 1.5 million troubled borrowers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DENNIS BRACK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (89%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); VETO (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



249 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: LEGISLATORS BACK 5% SPENDING RISE IN STATE'S BUDGET

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS; Danny Hakim and Trymaine Lee contributed reporting from Albany and Corey Kilgannon from New York City.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
The State Legislature approved a $122 billion budget on Wednesday, increasing spending by nearly 5 percent despite warnings that the weakening New York economy will leave the state unable to afford the expansion. 
 The increase comes as other states are planning to cut back spending and trim their payrolls. The New York budget relies on $1.5 billion in new revenue generated by closing tax loopholes and expanding taxes and fees on items including cigarettes, museum souvenirs and manicures. 
 The $1.25 a pack tax increase will make cigarettes in New York City the most expensive in the country, according to antismoking groups. 
 Legislative leaders said the increased spending, which includes more state aid for public schools, was needed to spare essential programs from painful cuts, but many legislators expressed concern that the budget was bloated and predicted that they would have to cut spending later. 
 Although Gov. David A. Paterson has publicly complained for two weeks that the budget was too generous, his role seemed to be minimized as the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, pushed through hundreds of millions of dollars in spending. 
 Mr. Paterson is expected to sign the budget. Legislators said that it was responsible and that the new taxes and fees would pay for the expanded spending.
 ''I don't want to be one of the pessimists who says the sky is falling, we're going over a cliff, it's doomsday,'' Mr. Bruno said Wednesday. ''I don't buy that.''
 Legislative leaders pointed out that former Gov. Eliot Spitzer had proposed an even bigger budget in January. Mr. Spitzer's plan was presented before the full emergence of the problems of Wall Street, which is New York's biggest source of revenue. 
 The budget, for the fiscal year which began April 1, calls for $121.7 billion in spending, including both state and federal dollars. That amounts to about $6,400 for each New Yorker and is 4.9 percent higher than the budget for last fiscal year. The state's operating budget, which excludes federal funds, will grow 4.5 percent this year to $80.5 billion.
 ''They really didn't act like they were in belt-tightening mode,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, an analyst for the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonprofit group that works for fiscal discipline. ''There was quite a bit of larding on.''
 The budget will increase aid to public schools by $1.75 billion over last year, and more than a third of the new money is to go directly to New York City. There is also $6 billion for capital projects at the State University of New York and the City University of New York.
 Legislative leaders and Mr. Paterson, who took office only two weeks before the budget deadline, faced a trying set of circumstances as they tried to reach an agreement. In addition to the worsening situation on Wall Street, they were distracted by Mr. Spitzer's resignation last month and a last-minute push from Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Mr. Bruno to approve a divisive traffic-reduction plan for New York City.
 Still, not even the budget's biggest champions were calling it austere. Some 2,000 new workers will be added to the state's work force of 200,000. Each legislative chamber will receive $350 million in funds -- derided by critics as pork -- to dole out for capital projects across the state. And lawmakers perpetuated their widely criticized practice of handing out state money for various projects in their districts.
 The Legislature also rejected a plan from Mr. Spitzer that would have closed four prisons upstate that the administration said were not full enough to keep open.
 The taxes and fees will touch consumers as well as corporations. Raising the tax on a pack of cigarettes to $2.75 from $1.50 will generate $265 million annually, according to government estimates. And $102 million more will come from increasing the income tax cap on financial services companies that have a profitless year; their tax liability goes to $10 million from $1 million. 
 Another $50 million will come from requiring online retailers like Amazon that do not have a physical presence in New York to collect sales taxes on purchases made by New Yorkers and remit them to the state.
 An array of smaller tax law changes -- requiring nonprofit organizations like museums and advocacy groups to collect sales taxes on T-shirts, mugs and other items, for example -- will bring in more modest amounts. 
 In New York City, an additional sales tax on health clubs memberships and purchases at beauty salons, massage parlors and weight loss centers, which was set to expire this summer, will instead be extended through December. The city has said the tax generates $1.1 billion a year, but the extension was not popular among beauticians and barbers.
 Jose Lopez, 29, who owns the Jordan Sport barber shop in the High Bridge section of the Bronx, reacted angrily to the news.
 ''We're not getting rich cutting hair, it's a tough business,'' he said. ''Why are they taxing us? It's not right.''
 ''I've got a family to support, and all these guys need jobs here,'' he said, gesturing to a half-dozen barbers in blue shirts cutting hair in the shop, which is named after Michael Jordan and is decorated with dozens of photos of Mr. Lopez cutting the hair of pro baseball players.
 A plan to raise income taxes on New Yorkers who earn more than $1 million a year, which had been championed by some labor groups, was not included after strong opposition emerged in the Republican-led Senate.
 Mr. Bruno stressed that the budget would help preserve the quality of life for New Yorkers in difficult financial times. Slashing services, he said, would drive residents away.
 Still, analysts were left looking for evidence that lawmakers recognized the severity of the financial situation.
 ''They're doing their pork, and they're not doing any significant cutbacks,'' said E. J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research group. ''It's very, very shortsighted. I get the feeling that legislators are knowingly burning the furniture in advance of an election.''
 Even on the other side of the political spectrum, experts were questioning the wisdom of not making more cuts now. 
 ''They're not taking the difficult actions now to make the budget balanced over time,'' said Frank Mauro, executive director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a left-leaning research group.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mr. Bruno, left, said the plan was responsible. Gov. David A. Paterson, though, has publicly called it too generous. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver was instrumental, with Senator Joseph L. Bruno, in pushing through the increased spending. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); BUDGETS (92%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX INCREASES (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



250 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: The World Food Crisis

 BODY:
Most Americans take food for granted. Even the poorest fifth of households in the United States spend only 16 percent of their budget on food. In many other countries, it is less of a given. Nigerian families spend 73 percent of their budgets to eat, Vietnamese 65 percent, Indonesians half. They are in trouble.
 Last year, the food import bill of developing countries rose by 25 percent as food prices rose to levels not seen in a generation. Corn doubled in price over the last two years. Wheat reached its highest price in 28 years. The increases are already sparking unrest from Haiti to Egypt. Many countries have imposed price controls on food or taxes on agricultural exports. 
 Last week, the president of the World Bank, Robert Zoellick, warned that 33 nations are at risk of social unrest because of the rising prices of food. ''For countries where food comprises from half to three-quarters of consumption, there is no margin for survival,'' he said.
 Prices are unlikely to drop soon. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization says world cereal stocks this year will be the lowest since 1982.
 The United States and other developed countries need to step up to the plate. The rise in food prices is partly because of uncontrollable forces -- including rising energy costs and the growth of the middle class in China and India. This has increased demand for animal protein, which requires large amounts of grain. 
 But the rich world is exacerbating these effects by supporting the production of biofuels. The International Monetary Fund estimates that corn ethanol production in the United States accounted for at least half the rise in world corn demand in each of the past three years. This elevated corn prices. Feed prices rose. So did prices of other crops -- mainly soybeans -- as farmers switched their fields to corn, according to the Agriculture Department. 
 Washington provides a subsidy of 51 cents a gallon to ethanol blenders and slaps a tariff of 54 cents a gallon on imports. In the European Union, most countries exempt biofuels from some gas taxes and slap an average tariff equal to more than 70 cents a gallon of imported ethanol. There are several reasons to put an end to these interventions. At best, corn ethanol delivers only a small reduction in greenhouse gases compared with gasoline. And it could make things far worse if it leads to more farming in forests and grasslands. Rising food prices provide an urgent argument to nix ethanol's supports.
 Over the long term, agricultural productivity must increase in the developing world. Mr. Zoellick suggested rich countries could help finance a ''green revolution'' to increase farm productivity and raise crop yields in Africa. But the rise in food prices calls for developed nations to provide more immediate assistance. Last month, the World Food Program said rising grain costs blew a hole of more than $500 million in its budget for helping millions of victims of hunger around the world. 
 Industrial nations are not generous, unfortunately. Overseas aid by rich countries fell 8.4 percent last year from 2006. Developed nations would have to increase their aid budgets by 35 percent over the next three years just to meet the commitments they made in 2005.
 They must not let this target slip. Continued growth of the middle class in China and India, the push for renewable fuels and anticipated damage to agricultural production caused by global warming mean that food prices are likely to stay high. Millions of people, mainly in developing countries, could need aid to avoid malnutrition. Rich countries' energy policies helped create the problem. Now those countries should help solve it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (91%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BIOMASS (89%); BIOFUELS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ETHANOL (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); FAMILY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (76%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); LIVESTOCK FEED (76%); CROP PRODUCTION (74%); FUEL TAX (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (69%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (64%); GREENHOUSE GASES (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (92%); NIGERIA (90%); HAITI (79%); CHINA (79%); EGYPT (79%); AFRICA (79%); INDIA (76%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



251 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Ending Humbling Impasse, Japan Approves Bank Chief

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
The Japanese Parliament approved a new governor of the central bank on Wednesday, ending a political stand-off that had left it without a chief at a time of global financial difficulty. 
 The legislators backed the nomination of Masaaki Shirakawa, 58, as the bank's governor, a post that had sat empty for three weeks because of political wrangling between Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda and the largest opposition party.
 The vacancy had been deeply embarrassing to Japan, leaving it without a central bank chief for the first time since the end of World War II, just as its economy showed signs of slowing.
 The impasse ended after Mr. Fukuda finally found a candidate acceptable to the Democratic Party of Japan. The Democrats, who control the upper house of Parliament, had rejected his two previous nominees because of fears that their careers in the finance ministry could threaten the central bank's independence.
 Mr. Shirakawa had already been serving as the bank's acting chief since winning approval from Parliament last month to become one of its two deputy governors. In a sign of continued political fighting, the upper house on Wednesday rejected the government's nominee to succeed Mr. Shirakawa as deputy governor, Hiroshi Watanabe, because he had been a vice finance minister.
 Economists and former bank officials describe Mr. Shirakawa as a 34-year central bank veteran with an academic-level command of monetary theory and the fluency in English to communicate freely with other countries' central bankers. He holds a master's degree in economics from the University of Chicago.
 His approval came just in time for him to fly to Washington for a meeting of Group of 7 finance ministers and central bankers on Friday.
 Mr. Shirakawa takes over as Japan, with the world's second-largest economy after the United States, appears at risk of recession. On Wednesday, the bank issued a report saying the economy was slowing, after a leading business-sentiment indicator hit a four-year low last week.
 The stock market here has also tumbled as some international investors soured on the country, which appears adrift in economic policy. 
 Economists and former central bank officials say it is unclear what Mr. Shirakawa can do to improve things. They do not expect him to deviate much from the cautious policy stance of his predecessor, Toshihiko Fukui, whose governorship ended last month. With Japan's overnight interest rate already at 0.5 percent, Mr. Shirakawa has little room for rate cuts to spur growth.
 Economists say Japan also has less need to follow the Federal Reserve in cutting rates because the country has so far been relatively unscathed by the American housing market collapse. 
 Yet economists say it looks increasingly likely that Japan will feel some fallout from the problems in the United States. Exporters in particular are feeling the pinch from declining purchases of cars and electronics by American consumers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Masaaki Shirakawa left a news conference at the Bank of Japan on Wednesday. He was confirmed as the bank's governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURIKO NAKAO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); RECESSION (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); WORLD WAR II (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); EXPORT TRADE (64%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); GOVERNORS (58%)

PERSON: YASUO FUKUDA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (54%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



252 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Small Businesses Fight To Scuttle Tax Proposals

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
Advocates for small businesses are fighting changes in tax laws that the Bush administration says are aimed at cracking down on tax cheating, particularly by the self-employed.
 Not all the changes proposed by the Treasury Department are directed toward small-business owners but the ones that do, those representing small business argue, will create a mountain of new paperwork that will be cumbersome and costly.
 One proposal, part of President Bush's budget, would require detailed reporting of credit card transactions to the Internal Revenue Service. Another would require most owners of small businesses to report any payments above $600 to corporations, like Federal Express, for services. 
 The administration has proposed such measures before, but Congress has not gone along, mainly because lawmakers are not anxious to associate their names with tax proposals.
 But one important change was added in closed-door budget negotiations in 2006 requiring federal, state and local agencies to withhold a percentage of payments from contractors -- touching everything from the cleaning of schools to the paving of roads to supplying military uniforms.
 The new rule does not take effect until 2011 but its passage lit a fire under small-business groups who say it is unfair and who are fighting for its repeal. 
 ''This is our No. 1 priority issue for this Congress,'' said Molly Brogan, a spokeswoman for the National Small Business Association.
 With the economy slumping, Congress could once again adopt last-minute measures to raise revenue. A growing number of lawmakers, both Democrats and Republicans, want to pay for new spending by closing what is known as the ''tax gap'' -- the shortfall of some $300 billion in uncollected taxes. The government says that at least $100 billion of that comes from underreporting by the self-employed. 
 But small-business lobbyists say small enterprises are already overburdened by current requirements for tax withholding, record-keeping and reporting.
 ''There are some fraudulent actors,'' conceded Grafton Willey IV, a principal in Tofias P.C., a certified public accounting firm, a former chairman of the small-business association. ''But most of the so-called tax gap comes from the extraordinary complexity of the tax code.''
 Individual merchants say the reporting of credit card receipts will add significantly to their paperwork, and make it easy for the I.R.S. to initiate audits if credit card totals do not match what the small-business owner reported.
 Online sellers, like Evan Prytherch, who operates a musical instruments and accessories Web site called evanp.com, say such a requirement will fall most heavily on them because their sales are almost totally by credit card.
 ''And returns are a big part of our business,'' he said, ''so the yearly total can be very different when returns and things like people who don't pay are taken into account.''
 As a result, he said, he would have to match each entry with the paper receipt to make sure it had been paid and was accurate.
 ''You're talking a book-size reporting effort,'' he said.
 More worrisome to some small companies is the Treasury Department proposal that businesses report payments to corporations over $600. Businesses are already required to provide a 1099 Form for employees. Expanding that to corporations, small-business groups argue, will add paperwork.
 ''I do business with hundreds of corporations, but I don't keep my books by company,'' said Eric Blackledge, owner of Blackledge Furniture in Corvallis, Ore. ''We're a typical small business, and like most, I keep them by accounts such as business supplies.'' 
 Mr. Blackledge, the fourth generation to run the residential and office furniture supplier, said he ''would have to redo my entire accounting system to keep track of this, and it would be a tremendous expense.'' 
 The Treasury Department plans to push Congress to add its measures to coming legislation. The credit card provision alone ''is expected over a 10-year period to bring in $18.7 billion in taxes that would otherwise not be collected,'' said a department spokesman, Anthony C. DeSouza.
 Small-business advocates like the Coalition for Fairness in Tax Compliance, formed in 2006 by the United States Chamber of Commerce, the National Federation of Independent Business and the Small Business Legislative Council, say they will continue to battle such measures.
 ''Paperwork burdens and regulatory requirements already are big concerns for small business,'' said Giovanni Coratolo, small-business director at the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''This would be adding something new that would cost more money for businesses which are already in compliance.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about the small-business opposition to some federal tax proposals referred incorrectly to people to whom the businesses must now supply 1099 forms, which are used to report payments over $600. The forms are provided to independent contractors, not employees. (Employees receive W-2 forms.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (93%); SMALL BUSINESS (91%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (79%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (64%); ACCOUNTING (61%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%); MUSIC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



253 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Asia's Republican Leanings

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: JAKARTA 

 BODY:
 Europe votes Democrat, but Asia tends Republican. 
 That's the headline from the fastest-growing part of the world where, as throughout a shrinking globe, the U.S. election is arousing passionate interest. Many a Shanghai dumpling gets slurped to the accompaniment of chat about superdelegates. 
 Eric John, the U.S. ambassador to Thailand, told me the campaign was ''the best public diplomacy tool I've had in a long time.'' 
 Democracy at work is riveting. In Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John McCain, America has produced three remarkable candidates. It's not surprising that a recent BBC World Service global survey showed positive views of the United States increasing for the first time in years. The rise was to 35 percent from 31 percent a year earlier. Negative views fell to 47 percent from 52 percent. 
 The shift is not seismic but shows the world is looking beyond the Bush administration. What it sees, however, is by no means uniform. Across Europe, the Democratic consensus is overwhelming. That's not surprising: Bush hatred is a blood sport. 
 The values of the Republican Party on everything from the death penalty to the place of religion in society lie outside the European mainstream. Europe's America is blue-state America. The rest is a discomfiting blur of churches, cowboys and electric chairs. 
 But in Asia, there's a different view. The three largest powers -- China, India and Japan -- have all had reasons to view Bush with favor, and all have nagging fears about a Democratic administration. At a deeper level, they've felt comfortable enough with a United States playing power politics, while that strut-your-stuff style has appalled consensus-driven Europeans. 
 I don't mean the Iraq invasion pleased Asians. It didn't. But China and India rising see the world more in terms of classic balance-of-power equations, driven by the might and self-interest of nations, than through the post-sovereign European prism of international institution-building and soft power. Already, China and India are jostling for dominance, not least in the Indian Ocean and Africa. 
 The India-Africa summit meeting this week reflects the conviction in Delhi that China has had its way too long in Africa. This friction will sharpen as the two countries build their economic and military might. For Beijing and Delhi, American power projection is no mystery. European talk of being a ''normative empire'' leaves them snickering or wondering. 
 On specifics, the big Asian powers have also felt more comfortable with Republican policy. In India, the general feeling is that the Republicans are more free-trade oriented, less likely to pile on single-issue objections over outsourcing or child labor, and more ready to take a bold pro-Indian strategic approach. The Bush administration's push for a nuclear deal with India, its backing for improved military ties, its refusal to meddle on Kashmir, and its simultaneous backing of intensified U.S. relations with India and Pakistan have earned respect in Delhi. 
 The fear is that a Democratic president, pushed by protectionists or nonproliferation literalists, could reverse these achievements. I understand those concerns. Reinforcing a special American-Indian relationship should be a strategic priority of the next U.S. president. 
 In China, there are acute fears of growing trade protectionism if Obama or Clinton wins. The Chinese authorities are also worried that a Democratic president would raise more forthright objections to human rights abuses in Tibet and elsewhere. While criticizing the Iraq invasion, China has been pleased by the way Baghdad bloodshed took the focus off Beijing. 
 A Chinese historical bias is that dealing with Republicans is easier. The six-party talks on North Korea, which have brought uneven but significant progress, have cemented deepening Chinese-American diplomatic interaction under Bush. China does not want an America that turns inward.
 Nor does Japan, which has reacted to China's rise by reinforcing its strategic ties with the United States, and has been reassured by the Bush administration's unequivocal commitment to America's Asian military alliances. America-in-Asia remains a Japanese priority, ugly incidents at Okinawa notwithstanding.
 The Republicans have been reassuring on that strategic imperative. So Asia leans Republican, but I don't think it should fear the Democratic presidency I hope to see. 
 In Asia, continuity should be a significant thread of an Obama or Clinton presidency. There are policies to be corrected -- especially in Afghanistan and Pakistan -- but much to preserve. 
 Above all, the United States must remain the offsetting power in Asia essential to calming Japanese and others' concerns over China's rise; a force for free trade with a region ushering hundreds of millions of people from poverty; a strong ally to a democratic India that is the developing world's most persuasive countermodel to flawed Leninist-capitalism; and a tied-at-the-hip partner with China. 
 A.B.C. -- anything but Clinton -- was Bush's dumb foreign policy coming into the White House. If elected, a Democratic president must prove wiser on Asia, where A.B.B. won't work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); OUTSOURCING (74%); SUPERDELEGATES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CHILD LABOR (70%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (51%)

COMPANY: BBC WORLD SERVICE TELEVISION LTD (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); DELHI, INDIA (86%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (54%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (94%); ASIA (94%); AFRICA (93%); THAILAND (92%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



254 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Businesses in Potholed, Sewerless Queens District Sue the City

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

DATELINE: Business owners in Willets Point 

 BODY:
the district near Shea Stadium known mostly for its auto repair shops and potholes -- filed a federal lawsuit on Wednesday accusing the city of depriving the neighborhood of services so property values would fall, easing the way for the land to be taken through eminent domain.
 The lawsuit, filed in United States District Court in Brooklyn, is another salvo in the business owners' fight to stop the city's $3 billion redevelopment plan for the area. The plan calls for razing the 61-acre business district -- which is not to be confused with the Willets Point peninsula on the East River at Fort Totten -- and replacing it with 5,500 units of housing, a hotel and convention center and 2.2 million square feet of office space, restaurants and retail shops. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has said the plan would turn ''one of the most heavily polluted'' places in the city into a ''dynamic center of life.'' 
 But business owners say the city has been shy on details about property appraisals and other parts of the plan, and they object to the city's threat to use eminent domain to acquire property. 
 The plan, which would displace some 250 businesses employing 1,300 workers, needs approval from the City Planning Commission and the City Council. 
 The suit seeks to force the city to provide sidewalks, adequate road repairs, sewers, fire hydrants, snow and trash removal and other basic services that the owners say the city has withheld for more than 40 years. It is also asking for unspecified damages for past neglect. 
 Supporters of the plan, however, say the suit is just another attempt by business owners to stop development proposals, a battle over various proposals going back to the days of the master planner Robert Moses.
 Mayor Bloomberg's office deferred questions about the suit to the city's Law Department. Connie Pankratz, a spokeswoman for that agency, said in a statement, ''We have not yet received the legal papers, but will review them thoroughly upon receipt.'' 
 Jeff Roberts, a spokesman for the city's Economic Development Corporation, said the city could not build a sewage system with the current businesses in place. As for the other services the owners said they were not getting, Mr. Roberts said: ''I don't know that that's accurate. We are trying to look into exactly what is being done. I believe the F.D.N.Y. and all the other city agencies have been serving the area.'' 
 About 100 business owners and workers joined Queens lawmakers at a rally at City Hall on Wednesday, carrying poster-size photos depicting barely paved streets riddled with craters and flooded by rainstorms. 
 ''Some of the photos you see behind me -- you see floods, you wonder if this is New York City in 2008 or Baghdad after a few mortar rounds,'' said Councilman Hiram Monserrate of Queens, whose district includes the area. 
 Councilman Eric N. Gioia, also of Queens, said the threat of eminent domain, even as a last resort, was ''like walking into a negotiation, putting a gun on the table, and saying, 'I'd like to strike a fair deal; I'll only use the gun if I have to.' '' 
 The landowners say that if the city repaired the roads, installed storm drains and put in a sewage system, development would follow on its own. 
 ''We essentially have no essential services provided for us there, no snow removal, no grass cutting,'' said Anthony Fodera, president of Fodera Foods Inc., one of the plaintiffs. ''The streets -- I've been there for 35 years; I have yet to see them fill a pothole.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Willets Point, a district in Queens nicknamed the Iron Triangle locally, is known for auto parts and repair shops, and potholes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); MAYORS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DAMAGES (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); WATER POLLUTION (74%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); RETAILERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (72%); WEATHER (69%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008



255 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: It's a Crisis, And Ideas Are Scarce

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
As the credit crisis has slowly expanded and worsened, there has been a flurry of activity in Washington to reduce the damage from it. There are bailouts and tax breaks, and even checks to parents of school-age children. 
 But there is remarkably little action aimed at getting the credit system functioning again. 
 In part, that is because there is a scarcity of ideas. Paul Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman whose legacy has not crumbled since he left office, was right this week when he said the financial engineers had created ''a demonstrably fragile financial system that has produced unimaginable wealth for some, while repeatedly risking a cascading breakdown of the system as a whole.'' 
 But it is far from clear what should replace it, or if it can somehow be mended.
 To be sure, we had a system that worked for generations, based on commercial banks constrained by regulation. But that system is not coming back, as Mr. Volcker noted in his extraordinary speech to the Economic Club of New York this week.
 ''Any return to heavily regulated, bank-dominated, nationally insulated markets is pure nostalgia, not possible in this world of sophisticated financial techniques made possible by the wonders of electronic technology,'' he said. 
 In any case, the banks are not all that healthy anyway, thanks to their losses from the strange securities created under the new system. 
 For the time being, the solutions being pushed would not seem unreasonable to an old-fashioned socialist. Most new mortgages are now guaranteed by the government or by government-sponsored enterprises, whose ability to lend is being expanded.
 The Bear Stearns precedent seems to assure that investment banks have joined commercial banks in the Fed's safety net, and the Fed has now taken control over what Mr. Volcker calls ''mortgage-backed securities of questionable pedigree.''
 Some ideas are obvious, but so far not widely accepted. The Basel II capital rules for commercial and investment banks clearly need to be strengthened, and regulators need to develop the ability to do their own risk assessments, rather than leaving the task to the banks and the credit rating agencies. That will take time and cost a lot of money, and it will require the derivative markets to be much more transparent.
 Regulation needs to be strengthened, particularly for investment banks. Providing a safety net brings, in Mr. Volcker's words, ''a direct responsibility for oversight and regulation.'' He forecast that ''investment banks are going to end up with a leverage ratio imposed upon them.'' And one lesson of this disaster is that having parallel financial institutions -- one regulated and one not -- simply drives activity to the unregulated area, at least until something blows up.
 But while reducing leverage is crucial, it makes a difference, as Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary, said this week, how that is accomplished. If the banks decrease leverage by selling assets or cutting back on lending, there could be a prolonged drought of available loans to fuel the economy. It is far better for them to raise capital and keep lending, but there is little evidence now that the institutions have much willingness to do that.
 Mr. Summers believes that the government-sponsored enterprises, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, should have been forced to raise capital quickly -- rather than simply promise to do something someday -- and that ways should be found to push other institutions to do so.
 It is also clear that the efforts being made to cut back American regulation, in the name of making our markets more competitive, are attempts to deal with the wrong issue. To quote Mr. Volcker again, ''For financial regulation in general, competition in regulatory laxity cannot be a tolerable approach.''
 At the same time, there is a limit to the usefulness of finger-pointing. Most of the critics -- myself included -- did not anticipate the severity of the credit collapse, and we should not act as if the executives and regulators who failed to prevent it were blind or stupid. Rather than go into self-defensive crouches, those people need to use hindsight to ameliorate the mess.
 There is a real risk that the ad hoc efforts now being made to deal with this crisis will create other problems. Mr. Volcker, who knows how inflation can get out of hand, said the current situation reminds him of the early 1970's, when inflation began to accelerate. The Fed's moves to slash short-term interest rates and bail out Wall Street, however necessary they may be, could easily raise inflation and cause more damage to the weak dollar.
 It is striking to realize that while Mr. Volcker has been gone from the Fed for two decades, he is, at 80, two years younger than his successor, Alan Greenspan. Had Mr. Volcker somehow kept the job, he almost certainly would have been more skeptical about the new financial architecture -- and less popular on Wall Street -- than Mr. Greenspan was when times were good. But the bad times we are now entering might not have become nearly so large a threat.
 Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lawrence Summers urges care in how change is made. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. C1)
 Paul Volcker, the former Fed chairman, says there is no turning back to the slower-paced days before electronic trading. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKO GEORGIEV/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); CREDIT BUREAUS (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



256 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: South Korea's President Vows to Repair Ties With U.S.

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
President Lee Myung-bak said Thursday that he would focus on repairing South Korea's strained relations with the United States during a visit to Washington next week, his first since his inauguration on Feb. 25.
 In an hourlong interview, Mr. Lee, a conservative, unequivocally stressed the importance of maintaining United States troops on the Korean Peninsula and said the two countries shared objectives in their policies toward North Korea.
 Mr. Lee said he was still committed to drawing North Korea out of its shell by engaging it economically, despite the verbal tit-for-tat between the Koreas in recent weeks. Mr. Lee portrayed the exchanges, including the North's description of him as a ''traitor'' and a ''U.S. sycophant,'' as instances in which the countries were ''testing each other'' at the start of the new South Korean administration. 
 Mr. Lee spoke a day after his Grand National Party secured a thin majority in the National Assembly, winning 153 seats in the 299-seat legislature. Given Mr. Lee's own landslide victory last December, his supporters had hoped for a clear-cut victory that would have allowed him to pass difficult legislation against liberal opposition.
 But Mr. Lee's approval ratings have declined in recent weeks because of growing popular doubts about his promises to revive the economy and his appointment of ministers who were later forced to step down over problematic real estate dealings. Also, lawmakers loyal to a rival bolted from Mr. Lee's party, handing electoral defeats to some of his closest allies this week.
 Although conservatives like the president dominate the National Assembly, this week's results will require deal-making and compromise from Mr. Lee, a former Hyundai executive and mayor of Seoul who is known for his take-charge style and is nicknamed the Bulldozer.
 Mr. Lee said the election indicated that the ''Korean people are fully supporting'' his policies on reviving the economy, but he added that ''we will be discussing fully and all the time with the opposition parties regarding important policy matters.''
 Mr. Lee said he would focus on passing legislation to deregulate the economy and ratifying a free trade agreement with the United States. It is unclear whether he will now have the votes to lift barriers on the import of American beef, a critical condition for passage in Washington. 
 On his first trip overseas since taking office, Mr. Lee will spend four days in the United States and meet President Bush at Camp David, where they are scheduled to hold a joint news conference on April 19.
 Although relations between the countries have improved greatly since last year, when the Bush administration softened its hard-line stance on North Korea, Mr. Bush and Mr. Lee's predecessor, Roh Moo-hyun, a liberal, had often appeared ill at ease with each other. Mr. Bush had also rejected the so-called sunshine policy toward the North initiated by Mr. Roh's predecessor, Kim Dae-jung.
 ''During the last 10 years, this relationship, of course it hasn't been damaged beyond repair, but there were some instances where we did experience some difficulties, and some damage has been done to the relationship between Korea and the United States,'' Mr. Lee said. ''So during my visit next week to the United States, I hope, first of all, to repair this and to bring about trust and to rebuild the trust between the two countries.''
 During Mr. Roh's administration, officials on both sides warned, though privately, of serious problems in the security alliance. Instead of stressing the alliance's importance, Mr. Roh talked of South Korea's role as a ''balancer'' in the region while Americans spoke privately of the possibility of one day withdrawing troops from the South.
 But Mr. Lee dismissed the idea of withdrawal. 
 ''No. 1, the role of the U.S. forces in Korea, as we all know, is deterrence -- is to prevent a war from breaking out here on the Korean Peninsula, and in that sense, they do a tremendous job,'' he said. ''Secondly, it goes beyond that because by the mere presence of the U.S. forces in Korea, they contribute to the peace and stability of East Asia and beyond Northeast Asia as well.''
 In the continuing six-nation talks over North Korea's nuclear program, the two countries had often seemed driven by different goals, with the United States worried about nuclear proliferation and South Korea more concerned about maintaining stability on the peninsula.
 Mr. Lee acknowledged that motivations were ''slightly different,'' but he said that the shared objective was to denuclearize the North. 
 Talks between the United States and North Korea are stalled over a condition in the February 2007 deal calling for the North's ''complete and correct'' accounting of its nuclear weapons activities. North Korea has said it has already given a full account, while the United States is pushing for further clarification.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lee Myung-bak, South Korea's president, said his immediate goals included deregulation and the ratification of a free trade agreement with the United States, which he will visit next week.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SEOKYONG LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); DEREGULATION (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (70%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (70%); REAL ESTATE (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%); BEEF (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: LEE MYUNG-BAK (96%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



257 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM IN REVIEW; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1575 words

BYLINE: By RACHEL SALTZ, LAURA KERN, JEANNETTE CATSOULIS and NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
THE TAKE
 Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.
 Directed by Brad Furman
 1 hour 36 minutes
 More interested in the wages of violence than in the mechanics of revenge, ''The Take,'' starring John Leguizamo as an armored-car driver who survives being shot in the head, is not your average gun-toting vigilante movie. Made by the first-time feature director Brad Furman, the film, set in East Los Angeles, is strongest when depicting daily life and its disruption in a believable, working-class family. 
 Mr. Leguizamo can sometimes seem too charged on screen, but here he gives a controlled performance as Felix De La Pena, a bright, jokey man whose temperament becomes combustible after he's shot. (His supposedly diminished mental capacities don't seem to affect him much beyond his being unable to recognize triangles.) Rosie Perez is equally good as his wife, and together the two have an easy chemistry.
 Mr. Furman, who also directs music videos, has given the movie, shot by Lukas Ettlin, a bleached-out, unglossy look. Occasionally the visuals seem overly stylized, but Mr. Furman knows enough to showcase his stars' unvarnished performances. 
 ''The Take'' mostly steers clear of indie earnestness and sentiment, especially in the textured, unforced scenes of family life. The gangsters and cops are more formulaic, and so is the vengeance plot. But even there, you can see Mr. Furman trying to go beyond action-movie cliches. RACHEL SALTZ
 ''The Take'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). There is violence, sex and brain surgery, and the good guys smoke.
 REMEMBER THE DAZE
 Opens on Friday in New York, Los Angeles and Washington. 
 Directed by Jess Manafort
 1 hour 41 minutes
 A generally entertaining but half-baked variation on Richard Linklater's high school period piece, ''Dazed and Confused'' (made in 1993, set in 1976), ''Remember the Daze'' (set in 1999) takes its cue from the earlier film in an excess of ways. Set to a soundtrack of popular tunes from the era, it unspools on the last day of the school year and trails assorted students into the following morning as they party, flirt, hook up and even momentarily consider their futures. 
 Played by promising newcomers, the film's privileged suburbanites (with unusually good looks, clear skin and lean bodies) run the gamut of standard teenage types: stoners, dorks, jocks, cheerleaders and aspiring gangstas. 
 Solid on a technical level, ''Daze,'' which played at film festivals last year under the title ''The Beautiful Ordinary,'' features crisp cinematography by Steve Gainer (whose camera flagrantly ogled the teens in Larry Clark's ''Bully'') and fluid direction by the 25-year-old Jess Manafort, who also wrote the script. It's in her favor that the re-creation of high school life depends more on memory than on imagination, but a little added heart wouldn't have hurt. Ultimately, the ensemble of more than 20 featured characters seems as vapid as the intentionally caricatured adults who pop up on occasion.
 Where are this decade's John Hugheses? Or even the Cameron Crowes? LAURA KERN
 ''Remember the Daze'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian) for profanity, large doses of drug and alcohol use and suggestions of sex.
 CHAOS THEORY
 Opens on Friday in New York and selected cities.
 Directed by Marcos Siega
 1 hour 25 minutes
 As most of us know only too well, our lives are ruled by the clock. In Marcos Siega's ''Chaos Theory,'' Frank Allen (Ryan Reynolds), an uptight author and motivational speaker who teaches people how to utilize each minute efficiently, tries to overcome time's tyranny by strictly following self-imposed schedules and lists. 
 But the loss of 10 minutes after his wife, Susan (Emily Mortimer), playfully turns the clock back one morning sets off a chain of increasingly absurd events that forces him to reassess his domestic bliss; his caddish best friend, Buddy (Stuart Townsend); and his approach to life in general. 
 A predictable romantic dramedy that isn't particularly tender, moving or amusing, ''Chaos Theory'' suffers first and foremost from featuring the least engaging couple to headline a movie in some time. If the bland Mr. Reynolds and the grating Ms. Mortimer are Hollywood's idea of the latest in romantic leads, then we're in trouble. 
 The film is told mostly via flashback, as Frank recounts his woes to his soon-to-be son-in-law, and in its most embarrassing recollection a drunken Susan selects a husband from among her male friends based on their nicknames for their penises. Frank's -- ''Truth'' -- wins out. Too bad there's actually very little truth to be found in the film. LAURA KERN
 ''Chaos Theory'' is rated PG-13 (parents strongly cautioned) for slight sexual situations and language.
 THE DHAMMA BROTHERS
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan.
 Directed by Jenny Phillips, Andrew Kukura and Anne Marie Stein
 1 hour 16 minutes; not rated 
 The teachings of the Buddha infiltrate a maximum-security prison in ''The Dhamma Brothers,'' a thinking-head documentary about finding answers within for those who can't get out.
 Filmed in 2002 at the Donaldson Correctional Facility in Bessemer, Ala., one of the most violent prisons in North America, this provocative film follows a small group of inmates through a strict course of Vipassana meditation. For nine days participants must abstain from talking (as well as from killing, stealing and intoxicants) and follow a regimented schedule of meals, rest and ''noble silence.'' According to the convicted murderer Grady Bankhead, those nine days were tougher than his eight years on Death Row.
 Directed by Jenny Phillips (an anthropologist and psychotherapist who initiated the program), Andrew Kukura and Anne Marie Stein, ''The Dhamma Brothers'' offers a constructive alternative to the hopelessness of human warehousing. Opening up her film to include prison staff (cautiously impressed with the students' behavioral changes), inmates' families and members of the public, Ms. Phillips candidly documents the mixed emotions and institutional conflicts aroused by the introduction of a Buddhist practice in a predominantly Christian prison.
 '' 'Vipassana' means 'to see things as they are,' '' says Bruce Stewart, one of the program's two teachers. For men like Mr. Bankhead, that may be the only freedom they will ever know. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 YOUNG & RESTLESS
 in China
 Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.
 Directed by Sue Williams
 1 hour 44 minutes; not rated 
 Forget ''globalization.'' The term should be ''homogenization.'' 
 ''Young & Restless in China,'' Sue Williams's latest documentary about that country, follows an assortment of youngish adults as they try to find places for themselves in a rapidly changing social and economic landscape. For an American viewer it's interesting at first because of the ''just like us'' factor: gosh, these people pursue money and flirt by text message and have elder-care issues too.
 But soon it becomes clear that everything about them is just like us: health insurance problems, environmental concerns, citizen protests, declining spirituality, the tug of war between work and family obligations. And that makes the film, which follows nine subjects from 2004 until relatively recently, kind of pedestrian.
 Almost everything experienced by the nine, who appear to be in their 20s and 30s, is garden-variety living and learning. Ms. Williams makes an effort to create some old-ways-versus-modernism tension -- one woman frets over whether to break off an engagement arranged through a matchmaker -- but it seems perfunctory. As the Internet addiction and Olympic construction boom that permeate the film make clear, that battle is already over. NEIL GENZLINGER
 BRA BOYS
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan and selected cities.
 Directed by Sunny Abberton
 1 hour 24 minutes
 The title may suggest an adolescent fetish, but it's not the one you think: in the disheveled Australian documentary ''Bra Boys,'' the obsession is not lingerie but surfing.
 Headquartered in Maroubra, a depressed Sydney suburb, the notorious Boys -- proudly described by a founder, Sunny Abberton, as ''one of the most infamous surf tribes in the world'' -- fight, carouse and ride the waves as if oceanic evaporation were imminent. Archival film of bloody confrontations with police and local gangs gives way to knockabout interviews with tribe members and big-wave legends like Laird Hamilton. The overall effect is a kind of Down Under Spring Break, minus the scantily clothed coeds.
 Part jock movie, part image rehabilitation, ''Bra Boys'' makes no pretense of impartiality. Written, directed and produced by Mr. Abberton and other group members, the film leans heavily on positives, like the Boys' peace-brokering efforts during the Sydney race riots in 2005. In addition, a murder trial involving two of Mr. Abberton's three brothers receives the full soap-opera treatment, playing down awkward details in favor of easy emotion.
 Yet this crude, rowdy movie is also unexpectedly touching in its embrace of surfing as an escape from the stigma of poverty and broken homes. Escape from Russell Crowe's droning narration, however, is impossible. JEANNETTE CATSOULIS
 ''Bra Boys'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Characters crash into rocks, set themselves on fire and use incomprehensible Aussie slang. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Inmates in a meditation program in ''The Dhamma Brothers.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREEDOM BEHIND BARS PRODUCTIONS)
 Rosie Perez with a recovering John Leguizamo in ''The Take.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SONY PICTURES HOME ENTERTAINMENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (89%); FAMILY (89%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); GANGS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (76%); CONTENT RATINGS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (71%); HEAD INJURIES (71%); FESTIVALS (69%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); MUSIC (67%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (67%); SHOOTINGS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



258 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2246 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 AFGHAN BOMBING KILLS EIGHT,
 Including Three Children
 A sport utility vehicle exploded in Kandahar, killing as many as eight civilians, including three children, and wounding more than 20 others. The Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack, but a spokesman for the group denied that civilians were in the area. Some of the worst such attacks over the last three years have been in the former Taliban stronghold. PAGE A15 
 ZIMBABWE PARTY REJECTS RUNOFF
 Zimbabwe's main opposition party decided that its presidential candidate, Morgan Tsvangirai, would not take part in a runoff because it determined he had won the disputed election outright, its secretary general said, accusing the governing party of carrying out ''a constitutional coup d'etat.'' The rejection of a runoff is a departure from its earlier stance. PAGE A6 
 'LITTLE PRINCE' MYSTERY, SOLVED?
 The disappearance of Antoine de Saint-Exupery, the French aviator and author of ''The Little Prince'' who went missing during World War II, has long ranked as one of aviation's great mysteries. But thanks to the tenacity and luck of two amateur archaeologists, the final pieces of the puzzle seem to have been filled in. PAGE A13 
 NEPALIS LINE UP TO VOTE
 Braving a string of pre-election violence, millions of Nepalis went to the polls for landmark elections that could end a bloody chapter in the country's history even as they usher in a raft of new worries. The elections are poised to abolish the monarchy and turn Maoist guerrillas into elected officials. PAGE A12 
 MIGRANTS WERE TO WORK ILLEGALLY
 The 54 migrant workers from Myanmar who suffocated in the back of a sealed truck in southern Thailand were being transported into the country by smugglers to work illegally, Thai police said. Survivors, some of whom are seen above, said they had shouted and banged on the sides of the sweltering container. PAGE A12 
 Vow to Repair South Korea-U.S. Ties A11 
 Cabinet Shake-Up in Iran A12 
 NATIONAL
 SPIRITS SOAR AS SEATTLE
 Welcomes the Dalai Lama
 The last time the Dalai Lama visited Seattle was 1993. His current five-day visit is expected to draw about 150,000 people, maybe 10 times the crowd before. And not all of the increase can be attributed to the fact that the package includes a Dave Matthews concert. This is a region trending Buddhist, at least in sympathies. PAGE A16
 LOOKING FOR THE OLD WAYS
 Vermont's cities and towns have until early next year to identify their ''ancient roads'' so that they might remain public rights of way. Never mind that they might be unpassable, even unobservable, citizen volunteers are poring over old records to find evidence of them. Of course, some people would just as soon they go unfound. PAGE A16
 ESTIMATING A BOOM
 An assessment by the United States Geological Survey estimated that an area of shale and other rock in North Dakota and Montana holds the largest potential oil resources in the 48 contiguous states. But geologists and oil industry officials emphasized that it is just an estimate. PAGE A19
 RISE IN TEMPORARY VISA REQUESTS
 Immigration officials got about 163,000 petitions for temporary work visas for highly skilled immigrants for the 2009 fiscal year, almost twice as many as there are visas available. That is a 23 percent increase over petitions for 2008. PAGE A18
 Private Records Exposed A19
 Southwest Planes Had Cracks A20
 METRO
 STATE LEADERS FIND MONEY
 For a Variety of Interests
 New York's leaders talked restraint, but couldn't keep themselves from giving money to the Harness Racing Museum and Hall of Fame, the Western and Central New York Safari Club, the Black Radical Congress, Zen Masters and the Long Beach Polar Bear Club, among others. The total for all such items: $200 million. PAGE B1
 JUDGES SUE FOR RAISE
 The state's chief judge, Judith S. Kaye, filed a lawsuit on behalf of the state's 1,250 judges, charging that the political process has denied them their constitutional right to an ''adequate'' salary, because the State Legislature has refused to give them a raise for the last decade. State trial judges make $136,700 a year; the lawsuit asks for a raise to $169,300. PAGE B3
 FLOATING GAS PLANT BLOCKED
 Gov. David A. Paterson blocked the nation's first floating liquefied natural gas plant, which had been proposed for Long Island Sound, saying the $700 million project would put a large section of the Sound off limits to boaters and would not lower energy costs as promised. The plan has been opposed by a broad range of environmental groups, community activists and elected officials from New York and Connecticut. PAGE B1 
 PUBLIC THEATER RESIGNATION
 Mara Manus, who led the Public Theater out of the red and through nearly six years of steady financial growth, has decided to step down as executive director. Ms. Manus, 49, will serve out the term of her contract, which ends in August. PAGE B1
 OBITUARIES
 MARVIN SYLVOR, 75
 The merry-go-round man who dotted parks in New York City with fanciful painted ponies, he went on to help populate the rest of the world with galloping steeds, flying manes and sparkly gold trappings on more than 60 carousels in places like Bolivia, Brazil, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia and Singapore. PAGE B7
 ABE OSHEROFF, 92
 A carpenter by trade and leftist provocateur by proclivity, he was wounded in the Spanish Civil War, then helped keep alive the memory of that struggle. His most enduring legacy was a 1974 film, ''Dreams and Nightmares,'' which told of his journey from the streets of Brooklyn to the Spanish battlefields of the 1930s to a melancholy return to Spain a generation later. PAGE B7
 STANLEY KAMEL, 65
 An actor, he played Adrian Monk's long-suffering psychiatrist on the television detective show ''Monk.'' He had a recurring role as an unscrupulous psychiatrist, Dr. Graham Lester, in the 1995 television series ''Murder One'' and other recurring roles on ''Days of Our Lives'' and ''Melrose Place.'' PAGE B7
 BUSINESS
 A PREDICTION OF GLOOM
 From Financial Worldbeater
 Just because George Soros is one of the world's most successful investors and richest men doesn't mean he has to be an optimist. His new book reflects his dire forecast for the world economy, and he considers current affairs ''the biggest financial crisis of my lifetime,'' which is 77 years and counting. Of course he also published a book in 1998 predicting a global economic collapse that never came. PAGE C1
 NO UNITY DESPITE UNITY
 House Democrats got together long enough to stall a trade pact with Colombia pushed by President Bush, but that should not be mistaken for evidence of unity on the overall issue of trade. Republicans, meanwhile, said the effect of the delay was only hurting American workers. PAGE C1
 APPEAL ON THE CHEAP
 Appeals based on status and fashion are all well and good, when status and fashion are within reach. But with consumers increasingly concerned about the overall economy -- and retail sales for March the worst in more than a decade -- advertisers are increasingly basing their pitch on the wallet. PAGE C1
 CHOOSING A COURSE
 Washington has been quite active doing damage-control on the credit crisis, Floyd Norris writes, but not so active on restoring a functional credit system itself. Ideas are in short supply, he says, adding that ''it is far from clear what should replace it, or if it can somehow be mended.'' One thing that seems certain is that what used to work is not coming back. PAGE C1
 BRITAIN CUTS RATES
 The Bank of England, faced with continued housing and credit turbulence cut its benchmark interest rate one-quarter point, to 5 percent. The European Central Bank, professing more confidence in the economy of the 15-nation euro zone, kept its at 4 percent. PAGE C3
 Rather's CBS Suit Trimmed C4
 SPORTS
 THE LONG ROAD TO CHINA
 With a Stop-Off in London
 Ryan Hall's goal for the summer -- and one of the ones for life -- is Olympic gold in the marathon. In New York last November, he set a trials record of 2 hours 9 minutes 2 seconds. But the Olympic race isn't until August, so, to pass the time, he's stopped off in London for the marathon there on Sunday. PAGE D7
 LOSING MEDALS
 Marion Jones has already lost her Olympic medals because of her admitted use of performance-enhancing drugs; now her relay teammates may lose theirs, too, after a ruling by the International Olympic Committee's executive board. Some have said in the past that they would appeal such a ruling. PAGE D7
 A SWIMSUIT ISSUE
 People who don't even know swimming seem to know about the Speedo LZR Racer swimsuit. Swimmers wearing the suit, designed with input from NASA, have sped to 22 of the 23 world records set since it was introduced in February. But not everyone thinks that's a good thing. PAGE D2 
 ESCAPES
 SAME-SEX UNIONS CREATE
 Services to Support Them
 As more states have legalized same-sex civil unions or marriages, commerce has followed. Hotels and resorts are competing to act as hosts, consultants are specializing in providing guidance for the ceremonies and celebrations. And couples are learning that what once was impossible now just requires good planning. PAGE F1
 ENTICED BY THE LIGHT
 Walt Bartman and his wife, Robyn, visited Tilghman Island for about 10 years before deciding to buy a second house there. Now the place, on Maryland's eastern shore off the tip of the Bay Hundred peninsula, it is both getaway and artistic inspiration for Mr. Bartman, an artist and art instructor. ''The light is fabulous,'' he says. PAGE F1
 BEST IN SHOW
 The American Kennel Club sanctions more than 20,000 dog shows each year, creating not just assorted competitions, but a way of life. And not just for the dogs -- someone has to get these poodles and Pomeranians and whatnot to all these places, and groom and pamper and coddle and coach them. Let's call them Dogheads. They are a breed apart. PAGE F5
 Havens: Woodbury, Conn. F3
 Second Homes That Roll F2
 WEEKEND
 EVADING THE OBSTACLES
 Placed in a Story's Path
 There is a certain inevitability about ''The Visitor,'' A.O. Scott writes of Tom McCarthy's second film as writer and director (the first being ''The Station Agent, '' not a bad recommendation). But, he adds, ''The curious thing about 'The Visitor' is that even as it goes more or less where you think it will, it still manages to surprise you along the way. PAGE E1 
 A FESTIVE SUMMER
 Rock fans will have at least four new festivals joining the usual suspects this summer, with promoters hoping the economy rocks along enough to produce the ticket sales. One challenge will be giving each its own flair (Jack Johnson, who has the top-selling album of the year, is booked for at least five). PAGE E4 
 READ ALL ABOUT IT
 The business of news isn't exactly booming (check stock prices or talk to your local unemployed journalist for verification) but the Newseum, opening Friday in Washington, is quite ready to celebrate the news business. Nicolai Ouroussoff pondered the Newseum for an architectural review, and decided it was ''the latest reason to lament the state of contemporary architecture in this city.'' PAGE E29
 NEW 'ROOM,' DIFFERENT VIEW
 A television adaptation of ''A Room With a View,'' to be shown on PBS, stars Elaine Cassidy as Lucy Honeychurch. The new version enlivens what seems formulaic, giving the touches of raciness that an earlier generation of ''Masterpieces'' might have avoided. A review by Neil Genzlinger. PAGE E1 
 CANVASES CONTAINING WORLDS
 Works by Tomma Abts ''have a nerdy, introverted spirit that would seem to prefer more intimate conditions,'' Ken Johnson writes in his review of a showing at the New Museum. But, he goes on, ''her pictures exert a gravitational force that draws you in.'' PAGE E2
 EDITORIAL
 FEAR AND FLYING
 If there can be any good news in hundreds of thousands of passengers being stranded as airlines ground fleets of planes for urgent inspection, it is that the Federal Aviation Administration is doing its job. Unfortunately, it is trying to make up for years of not doing its job in keeping them safe, and travelers are the victims. PAGE A22
 ADRIFT ON IRAN
 Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, made another blustering claim this week: that his scientists are tripling the size of their nuclear fuel program. The fact that it made barely a diplomatic ripple is another reminder that all of the major powers are appallingly adrift on one of the major security challenges of the day. PAGE A22
 BRANDISHING PLASTIC FOR UNCLE SAM
 Reports that some officials charged millions in personal expenses on government credit cards is priceless fodder for late-night comedy writers. For all other taxpayers, it is appalling. PAGE A22
 OP-ED
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 According to a recent estimate by the Urban Institute, the lack of health insurance leads to 27,000 preventable deaths in the United States each year. Health care horror stories are common in America, but don't happen in any other rich country -- because every other advanced nation has some form of universal health insurance. We should, too. PAGE A23
 DAVID BROOKS
 Society is now riven between the memory haves and the memory have-nots. On the one side are these colossal Proustian memory bullies who get 1,800 pages of recollection out of a mere cookie-bite. On the other side are those of us suffering the normal effects of time who are one step away from leaving the stove on all day. PAGE A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); COUPS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (73%); HISTORY (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); SMUGGLING (69%); ARCHAEOLOGY (66%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (66%); MIGRANT WORKERS (64%); POLICE FORCES (64%); VOLUNTEERS (63%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (60%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (55%); DALAI LAMA (50%); DAVE MATTHEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%) VERMONT, USA (79%) ZIMBABWE (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); THAILAND (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



259 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Budgeting in Albany In Hard Times

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes .com

 BODY:
Huzzahs echoed from Baghdad to Washington when the Iraqi parliament passed a 2008 budget in a packet of measures several weeks ago.
 Mind you, plenty of crucial issues were left to a future day and maybe, for all anyone can tell, to a future decade: matters like how to divide the country's oil wealth among rivalrous groups. But, hey, the lawmakers managed, after dragging their feet, to piece together a $50 billion budget. So hurray.
 Sounds a lot like Albany. 
 In the spirit of their Iraqi brethren, New York State lawmakers couldn't bring themselves to vote on a crucial issue. They killed a congestion pricing plan for New York City by stealth, with no one forced to stand up and be counted in front of the voters. But, hey, they managed this week, after dragging their feet, to piece together a $122 billion budget. So hurray.
 Only not everyone is cheering. Some people have trouble understanding why, when times are hard, Albany's notion of tightening its belt is to expand its ample waist.
 The state budget shares an important trait with hospital fees and college tuitions. All are somehow freed of economic constraints that apply to the rest of us.
 This new budget increases spending by nearly 5 percent, well above the rate of inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index. How many of you have seen your family's income beat inflation to a pulp?
 Through good times and bad, this has been Albany's fiscal habit for what seems like forever.
 Twenty-five years ago, it approved a budget of $31.5 billion. By applying the rate of inflation to that $31.5 billion, you would wind up this year with a budget a shade under $67 billion. Instead, the new budget is nearly twice that amount. Ten years ago, Albany spent roughly $3,900 for each New York State resident. That's equivalent to about $5,065 in 2008 dollars. Instead, spending now averages about $6,400 per person.
 Granted, not everyone buys this analysis.
 ''The C.P.I. measures a basket of goods and services that a family needs to buy,'' said Trudi Renwick, a senior economist at the Fiscal Policy Institute, a liberal research group in Albany. The state's needs are quite different, she said. They include health care payments, pensions and, in recent years, a batch of new responsibilities like a revised school financing formula.
 ''To maintain the same level of services, the state government has needed to spend more than the increase in the C.P.I.,'' Ms. Renwick said. For her, a better measurement is Albany's spending as a percentage of total personal income in the state. By that standard, the budget is ''not really growing out of control,'' she said. In fact, ''by that measure, it's below where it was in 1990.''
 ''Government spending supports all economic activity in the state,'' Ms. Renwick said, ''and as the economic activity increases, the need for government services also increases.''
 You probably won't be shocked to hear that not everyone agrees with her, certainly not E. J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research group. Far from being irrelevant, he said, the price index is ''the closest measure we have for the overall cost of living'' and for ''what a dollar means to the taxpayer.''
 Besides, Mr. McMahon said, where is it written that ''the overall cost of government should be growing as fast or even faster than the economy that's supporting it''? To assert that ''government must always be some fixed share of total wealth,'' he said, ''takes a lot of pressure off government to run more efficiently.''
 No one, Ms. Renwick included, is about to describe Albany as the most tightly run ship. Here we are in a reeling economy. So how did lawmakers economize? They added 2,000 bodies to the state payroll. Naturally, they also made sure to set aside $700 million to be showered later on the politically blessed in their districts.
 They -- and their counterparts in the City Council and Congress -- suffer from a special form of amnesia, one peculiar to lawmakers. They believe that the cash they play with is theirs. They hand out their goodies, describing them with antiseptic terms like ''earmarks'' or ''member items,'' and forgetting that this money is yours.
 But let's look on the bright side. The new governor, David A. Paterson, vows to shake things up. Belts will truly be tightened and waists not expanded, he said the other day. And when will this new age dawn? Next year, the governor said.
 Oh.
 Well, you never know. Maybe Iraq will have figured out what to do with its oil money by then.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PRODUCT PRICING (74%); TUITION FEES (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (71%); FAMILY (71%); HOSPITALS (66%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (65%); LIBERALISM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



260 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING AMERICAS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: CANADA: TRADE SURPLUS RISES 78%

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Canada's trade surplus rose 78 percent in February despite strength in the Canadian dollar. Economists said that performance might not be maintained but still indicated economic strength. Statistics Canada said the surplus rose to 4.94 billion Canadian dollars ($4.86 billion) in February from 2.78 billion Canadian dollars in January. It was the biggest monthly surplus since May 2007 and the largest rise since June 2004. All of the gain came in trade with the United States. Exports rose to 39.32 Canadian billion dollars, from 37.88 billion in January. Two-thirds of the increase was in automobiles and energy. Imports fell to 34.39 billion Canadian dollars, from 35.10 billion in January. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); STATISTICS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



261 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: China's Yuan Rises to a Milestone Against the Dollar

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
China's currency, the yuan, rose against the dollar on Thursday, reaching a milestone that is just the latest sign of this country's growing economic power. 
 For the first time in more than a decade, the dollar bought less than 7 yuan, ending the day close to 6.992 yuan, a situation that specialists say will probably make Chinese-made goods more expensive for American consumers and possibly contribute to inflation in the United States. 
 The gains for the Chinese currency have come after Beijing's decision to end a longstanding peg to the dollar in July 2005, when a single dollar bought about 8.3 yuan, or renminbi. 
 Beijing lifted the peg after American and European officials had complained for years that the yuan was set artificially low, making Chinese goods cheaper and giving China an unfair trade advantage. This resulted, many officials said, in huge trade surpluses for China and job losses for Americans and Europeans. 
 But this year, partly because of soaring inflation and fears the economy could be overheating, China's leaders have allowed the nation's currency to appreciate more quickly against the dollar. The yuan has gained about 16 percent against the dollar since the peg ended in 2005, including about 4.5 percent this year. 
 Some analysts believe the yuan will continue to rise, possibly reaching 6.5 yuan to the dollar by the end of the year. 
 The changes are coming as the dollar weakens against other currencies, including the euro, sapping American buying power overseas. 
 Indeed, despite its rise against the dollar, the yuan has weakened against the euro in the last year. European officials continue to worry about growing trade deficits with China. 
 For China, though, the yuan's climb against the dollar is helping to offset the rising cost of goods it imports -- like oil, grains and raw materials -- many of which are priced in dollars. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); IMPORT PRICES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



262 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: A Little Extra For Legislators To Hand Out

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Times are tight in New York, state officials say. A recession is looming. Tax receipts are dwindling. Spending must be restrained.
 But the Harness Racing Museum and Hall of Fame in Goshen will survive, thanks to $35,000 in taxpayer money from Republicans in the Senate.
 For all the talk in Albany of a state budget crisis, lawmakers have not lost their appetite for pork-barrel spending, an Albany tradition robust enough to withstand any fiscal storm. Budget gaps notwithstanding, the total dollar amount of so-called member items in this year's state budget will be exactly the same as last year and the year before -- $200 million -- divvied up between the governor, the Assembly and the Senate. 
 Besides the harness racing museum, other groups receiving grants this year are the Western and Central New York Safari Club, a hunting club in Williamsville; the Black Radical Congress, a Manhattan-based civil rights group; and Zen Masters, a martial arts academy in Queens. 
 Of the hundreds of groups receiving funds from member items this year, most are getting amounts in the four- and five-figure range. As in years past, the majority party in each chamber controls the grants; party leaders dole out cash by seniority, and individual lawmakers decide where to award their shares. 
 The money generally goes to nonprofit groups in lawmakers' districts, sometimes to offset cuts in government programs, and lawmakers say they are uniquely qualified to identify worthy recipients at the local level.
 Assemblyman Harvey Weisenberg, a Nassau County Democrat, made a grant of $5,000 to the Long Beach Polar Bear Club, which sponsors a well-known annual winter swim in the Atlantic. 
 ''It's a tradition down here,'' Mr. Weisenberg said. The money helps the club purchase sweatshirts, Mr. Weisenberg said, which are then sold to raise money for charity. ''Last year we generated almost $300,000 for the Make-a-Wish Foundation,'' he said.
 The list of recipients is, on some level, a pocket guide to the density of New York civic life. There are churches and block associations, centers for the elderly and immigrant groups, dance troupes and at least one junior circus. Hundreds of thousands of dollars go to youth sports teams, from the Amityville Little League to the Wantagh Football Club.
 But to critics, the grants -- however well intentioned or well deserved -- are merely another form of patronage, and a way for lawmakers to cement their constituents' loyalty. Occasionally, the items go toward apparent boondoggles: Member items of the past include money for a pro wrestling hall of fame in Schenectady and a cheese museum in Rome. Some lawmakers have even faced criminal charges for diverting member item money to their own pockets.
 The spending remained at its usual level even as Gov. David A. Paterson and the Legislature agreed on $1.5 billion in new taxes, fees and loophole closing to raise revenue. 
 E. J. McMahon, executive director of the Empire Center at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative-leaning research organization, decried the level of pork in this year's budget as excessive, especially in the current economic climate. 
 ''It looks as bad as usual,'' Mr. McMahon said. ''It's the same silly thing. It's as unnecessary in good years as it is in a bad year.'' 
 Besides the $200 million in member items -- $85 million each for the Senate and Assembly, the remainder for the governor -- there will also be $700 million for capital projects directed by state lawmakers and the governor. 
 Unlike traditional member items, those expenditures are financed by borrowed money, part of an almost unprecedented spree of state borrowing totaling $8 billion for this fiscal year. By habit, the capital grants are written into the budget as a blank check, with specific allocations made after the fact by legislative leaders and the governor. 
 In some recent years, traditional member items were handed out the same way, their mysteries and sources undiscernible even to close readers of the state budget. But thanks to a budget reform agreement made last year between the Legislature and Gov. Eliot Spitzer, every recipient is now listed as a separate line in the budget, as was the case before the late 1990s.
 Typical was the $2,000 grant directed by Senator Martin J. Golden, a Brooklyn Republican, to the Association of Sicilians United of New York. Mr. Golden said the money would go to help finance a youth soccer league. 
 ''It's generally for kids and seniors. Our goal is to enhance opportunities for those groups,'' he said. ''We seed these organizations, and they do their own fund-raising.''
 Assemblywoman Joan L. Millman, a Brooklyn Democrat, directed a $2,500 grant to the Doll and Toy Museum of New York City. The museum creates traveling exhibits at city schools and other places. 
 ''They used to be housed in a trailer behind my office,'' Ms. Millman said. ''A little bit of money goes a long way for some group like that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SPORTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); MARTIAL ARTS (68%); WRESTLING (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); DANCE (67%); YOUTH SPORTS (64%); CIVIL RIGHTS (53%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (77%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



263 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Creative Spots, Courtesy of a Stalled Economy

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Forget the fancy blandishments of Madison Avenue. An e-mail message sent on Thursday to advertise B. R. Guest Restaurants gets right to the point.
 ''The economy stinks,'' the subject line begins. ''Twenty percent off online gift card purchases.''
 Since the fall, many marketers have been appealing to worried consumers by acknowledging that times are tough. Campaigns for everything from cars to food to clothing have played up saving money rather than status or fashion.
 Now, with consumer spending slowing further -- as evidenced by the lackluster retail sales data reported on Thursday, the weakest results for a March since 1995 -- there is a noticeable increase in pitches that are focused on value.
 For instance, readers of the April 14 issue of In Touch Weekly magazine will find ads for the N.Y.C. New York Color cosmetics sold by Del Laboratories (''You're beautiful and smart ... Why pay more?''), the TreSemme line of hair care products made by Alberto-Culver (''Curls you'll love. A price you'll adore'') and the $1 Spicy Chick'n Crisp sandwich sold at Burger King. 
 ''Value is a big part of the equation for fast food,'' said Rob Reilly, partner and co-executive creative director at a Burger King agency, Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Miami, part of MDC Partners, which is creating commercials for a new menu item, the Cheesy Bacon B.K. Wrapper, priced at $1.39 each.
 ''As the economy struggles, people still have to eat,'' Mr. Reilly said. ''You want to get into the value game, because it's a nice way to drive traffic.''
 The May issue of Redbook magazine carries five ads that speak to consumers whose mind-set is recessionary. The Suave hair care range owned by Unilever asks women to ''Say yes to beautiful without paying the price.'' Wal-Mart promises ''brand-name bras at a great price.''
 And Home Depot entices shoppers with an ''exclusive 15 percent discount'' on Bali window shades and blinds.
 ''All the research we are doing says absolutely there is concern about the economy,'' said Bill Koenigsberg, chief executive at Horizon Media in New York, an agency that works for marketers like Ace Hardware, Geico, Harrah's and Jack in the Box.
 As a result, ''you've got to tell it like it is'' in ads, he said, rather than avoiding the economic elephant in the room.
 One advertiser that is taking that candid tack is LoJack, the maker of automotive antitheft devices. One of five commercials in a campaign that started this week addresses a subject rarely discussed in ads until now.
 The spot features a man describing how ''the first thing'' he thought of when he realized his car was missing was ''how upside down I was on my car loan'' -- a term meaning he owed more than the car was worth.
 ''I'd still be making payments on a car I didn't have,'' the man frets. But his car was equipped with LoJack, a stern-voice announcer reveals, so the spot has a happy ending.
 ''We'd done interviews in Los Angeles, New York and New Jersey, big markets for LoJack, and a car dealer used the expression,'' said Greg Smith, chief creative officer at the LoJack agency, the Via Group in Portland, Me.
 ''We'd heard it, but didn't know how much a phenomenon it was,'' Mr. Smith recalled, ''so we Googled 'upside down on a loan.' '' After learning how prevalent it is -- by some estimates, a quarter of car buyers owed more on their previous cars than the resale values -- a decision was made to devote a commercial to the subject.
 ''A lot of clients don't want to ever mention anything negative,'' Mr. Smith said. ''But advertising doesn't have to be just fun and frivolous.''
 ''When times are more uncertain,'' he added, ''advertising can play a role in solving problems for people.''
 As altruistic as that may sound, the purpose of ads that sell the idea of value is, of course, to move merchandise.
 For example, since Wal-Mart introduced a campaign in September with the theme ''Save money. Live better,'' its sales have increased faster than before -- and faster than those of competitors like Target.
 Amid the gloomy reports from retailers on Thursday, Wal-Mart's was a bright spot; the company also raised its profit projection for the first quarter.
 ''We continue to get all kinds of great feedback from customers,'' said Stephen Quinn, chief marketing officer at Wal-Mart in Bentonville, Ark. ''A lot of research showed us how important this is to the majority of Americans.''
 That is why a Wal-Mart television, print and online campaign introduced on March 31, which celebrates April as ''Earth Month,'' goes green in two ways: saving the planet and saving money.
 The campaign promotes products like a $7.50 T-shirt that is made with plastic recycled from Coca-Cola bottles; mulch made from recycled tire rubber ($5.47 for a 20-pound bag); and Tide Coldwater detergent, marked down to $15.87 from $17.97.
 The theme of the campaign is epitomized by the headline of an ad in a 16-page booklet that will be inserted in May issues of magazines: ''Earth-friendly products won't save the Earth if they don't save people money.'' The campaign is by the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 It is ''safe to say,'' Mr. Quinn agreed, that the campaign would not have been approved if it had not demonstrated to shoppers that green products can be bought on a budget.
 As for results, Mr. Quinn said, ''we're really pleased at this stage,'' adding that Wal-Mart plans ''new initiatives after Earth Month is over.''
 In a twist, some ads about the sagging economy are centered on the efforts to improve the sagging economy, notably the federal stimulus plan approved in February.
 A humorous campaign for AirTran Airways, by Cramer-Krasselt in Chicago, urges consumers to spend their bonus checks from the government on travel.
 ''It's what you and your country can do for each other,'' the ads declare, paraphrasing the inaugural address of President John F. Kennedy.
 The economy ''is sputtering, but passenger demand has been steady'' for the airlines, said Tad Hutcheson, vice president for marketing at the Atlanta office of AirTran Airways.
 ''Our greatest fear is that consumers will stop buying airline tickets,'' he added. ''Our job is to remind them to keep buying.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AirTran Airways urges tax rebates be spent on travel
A new Wal-Mart campaign tells consumers that they can save the earth and save money by buying certain products (pg. C4)
 A Burger King commercial, top, promotes the restaurant's lower-priced items. A LoJack ad, above, speaks of how the antitheft device can save consumers who already are upside down on their car loans. (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); ELECTRONIC COUPONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); HOME CENTERS (75%); COSMETICS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); RETAIL SALES (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (66%); ALBERTO-CULVER CO (55%); MDC PARTNERS INC (54%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (52%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (51%); JACK IN THE BOX INC (51%)

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (54%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (54%); UNIA (AMS) (52%); UNA (BIT) (52%); UNA (AMS) (52%); UN (NYSE) (52%); ULVR (LSE) (52%); UL (NYSE) (52%); JACK (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (52%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (51%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



264 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: The Food to Feed a Growing World

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Grains Gone Wild,'' by Paul Krugman (column, April 7):
 In this century, humanity ''plans'' to add some 2.5 billion people to the earth, many more than constituted the entire human population when we were born. Worse yet, those additional people will have a disproportionate impact on the environmental systems supporting agriculture. 
 Human beings naturally use the richest, closest, most accessible resources first. On average, each new person will need to be supplied with food from less productive land, using water transported further, requiring more fertilizer per unit of production, with energy needs met largely from oil drawn from deeper wells. All this while dealing with climate change that threatens agriculture from many different directions. 
 No economist, indeed no human being, should be ignoring those factors. 
 Paul R. Ehrlich Anne H. Ehrlich Stanford, Calif., April 7, 2008
 The writers are the authors of the forthcoming ''The Dominant Animal: Human Evolution and the Environment.''
 To the Editor: 
 Paul Krugman points to rising demand, weather and biofuels as culprits behind higher food prices. But counterproductive policies imposed by major grain suppliers, such as export bans and taxes by Argentina, China, India, Russia, Vietnam, Egypt and Cambodia, are equally to blame.
 Export bans are meant to dampen domestic prices, but they quickly translate into price increases felt by the world's poorest people. Even the threat of export bans by Kazakhstan and Thailand sent the price of wheat and rice up 30 percent in one day. These export bans undermine food importers' confidence in the global grain system and create political instability.
 Nature may be partly to blame for the current run-up in world food prices, but policy makers' responses to higher prices are making things much worse than they need to be.
 M. Ann Tutwiler Washington, April 8, 2008
 The writer is a program officer, agricultural markets, Global Development Program, William and Flora Hewlett Foundation.
 To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman wrongly casts ethanol as the devil.
 United States corn growers are producing enough corn for all needs. And while Mr. Krugman complains that we are not keeping a surplus, the fact is quite the opposite. For the 2007 harvest, the estimated surplus is higher than the previous year, at more than 1.4 billion bushels.
 It's ironic that after years of being accused of using cheap corn to drive up obesity, we are now being accused of forcing Africans into starvation. World hunger has many causes, many of which are political, and we would especially encourage Mr. Krugman to look into the ways safe biotechnology can be used to boost corn production and feed the hungry in markets where shortsighted groups are refusing it entry.
 Ron Litterer President, National Corn Growers Association Greene, Iowa, April 8, 2008
 To the Editor:
 ''Grains Gone Wild'' is really a call for a new look at the world population question, never a comfortable subject. What are the chances that a larger population will be able to handle the problems of a larger population more effectively, other than by forced necessity?
 Why is a successful economic society always measured in percent of growth? Shouldn't success be measured by the extent to which we do not grow, by how efficiently we reuse raw materials, and by a worldwide frugal sharing of resources? 
 Robert E. Johnson Warren, N.J., April 7, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In answering the question ''What should be done?'' about the world food crisis, Paul Krugman doesn't mention an obvious and important solution: Eat less meat. The 700 calories' worth of animal feed he says it takes to produce 100 calories of beef contributes nothing to the well-being of consumers. 
 With a little experimentation, anyone can find satisfying substitutes for meat that will improve personal health and the health of the planet at the same time. I urge your readers to give it a try. 
 Nancy Dorfman Belmont, Mass., April 8, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM GOUGH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (89%); CORN FARMING (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); EXPORT CONTROLS (87%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); BIOFUELS (78%); STARVATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); BIOMASS (76%); AGRICULTURE (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (73%); FERTILIZERS (71%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); EXPORT PRICES (71%); OBESITY (70%); ALCOHOLS (70%); ETHANOL (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); EGYPT (79%); INDIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



265 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Markets Rise After 3 Losing Sessions

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks rose on Thursday for the first time in three days, helped by a decline in unemployment claims and a better-than-expected sales performance by discount retailers. 
 The Labor Department said initial unemployment claims fell more than expected last week, relieving some of the concern raised a week earlier when the agency said the four-week average of claims had risen to a two-and-a-half-year high.
 And while many retailers, from Gap to Saks, said March sales slid as consumers grew more frugal, Wall Street was encouraged that other companies were weathering the economic weakness. Discount retailers Wal-Mart Stores and the Costco Wholesale Corporation reported sharp increases in March sales and indicated they expect sales to keep rising.
 ''The jobless claims snapped back down following the sharp rise last week,'' said Alan Gayle, senior investment strategist for RidgeWorth Capital Management. ''Combined with the news from Wal-Mart, it suggests that the consumer may be able to muddle through. That's providing some support for an otherwise strained market.'' 
 Questions about the health of the global financial system ahead of next week's bank earnings, however, continued to unsettle the market. Lehman Brothers Holdings disclosed in a regulatory filing on Wednesday that it had liquidated three funds because of the tight credit markets and brought the assets of those funds, valued at $1 billion, onto its books Feb. 29. The investment bank said it also bought deteriorated assets valued at $800,000 from other distressed funds.
 ''We think everything is better, and then we get another surprise. Every credit rock we turn over has something else crawl out from under it,'' Mr. Gayle said.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 54.72, or 0.44 percent, to 12,581.98.
 Broader stock indicators also advanced. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.06, or 0.45 percent, to 1,360.55, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 29.58, or 1.27 percent, to 2,351.70.
 Government bonds fell as stocks rose. The 10-year Treasury note was down 16/32, at 99 21/32, and its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 3.54 percent from 3.48 percent late on Wednesday.
 The Nasdaq got a boost after a Japanese drug maker, Takeda Pharmaceutical, announced an $8.8 billion, all-cash bid for Millennium Pharmaceuticals, a biotechnology company based in Cambridge, Mass. Millennium rose $7.99, or 49 percent, to $24.34.
 After surging to a record on Wednesday, light sweet crude oil fell 76 cents to settle at $110.11 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The dollar regained ground after the Bank of England lowered its base lending rate by a quarter point and the European Central Bank left its rates unchanged. Gold prices fell.
 Wal-Mart rose 52 cents to $54.66 after reporting its sales figures, and Costco rose 49 cents to $66.52.
 Following are the results of Thursday's auction of 10-year inflation notes:

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
FREDDIE MAC YIELDS: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
 TAX-EXEMPT YIELDS: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. (Source: The Bond Buyer) Graphs showing a rise in stocks, the first time in 3 days. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); BONDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (83%); WAL-MART STORES INC (74%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%); RIDGEWORTH CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); MILLENNIUM PHARMACEUTICALS INC (51%); TAKEDA PHARMACEUTICAL CO LTD (51%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%); BANK OF ENGLAND (50%)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (83%); WMT (NYSE) (74%); 4502 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (83%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (83%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (50%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



266 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Two Issues Combine to Scuttle an Aerospace Takeover

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Concerns about national security laws in the United States and sensitivities over Canada's control of its Arctic lands combined on Thursday to block a $1.3 billion takeover of Canada's largest space equipment company by Alliant Techsystems of Edina, Minn.
 The decision by Jim Prentice, the industry minister in Canada, to prohibit the sale of MacDonald Dettwiler & Associates is the first time a takeover has been stopped by Canada's 23-year-old foreign investment law. 
 ''We don't see net benefits in this transaction to Canada,'' Mr. Prentice told reporters.
 The proposal raised issues about Canadian Arctic sovereignty that crossed party lines. It also revived a debate about control of Canada's aerospace industry that stretches back to a 1959 decision to cancel the development of a Canadian fighter jet in favor of purchasing American aircraft.
 The announcement was all the more unanticipated because it came from a Conservative government which has sought to improve relations with the United States and has generally opposed nationalist policies.
 Mr. Prentice, however, said that the decision did not reflect a change in the government's general trade and economic positions.
 ''This is not a protectionist government,'' he said.
 A spokesman for Alliant, a rocket and weapons maker better known as A.T.K., had little comment.
 ''I can confirm that discussions with the Canadian government are ongoing,'' the spokesman, Bryce Hallowell, said. MacDonald Dettwiler had no comment beyond confirming the government's decision.
 A.T.K. now has 30 days to persuade the government to reverse its position, an outcome few predicted as likely.
 While Mr. Prentice offered little detail about the decision, he said that ''jurisdictional issues'' surrounding a satellite owned by MacDonald Dettwiler but built largely with $450 million from the Canadian government played a role.
 The government's financing gives it broad access to the satellite's data, which is also sold by MacDonald Dettwiler to businesses and other governments, including the United States.
 The satellite, Radarsat-2, follows an unusual polar orbit and uses radar to peer through clouds. Before the launch from Kazakhstan last December, the Canadian government cast it as an important element of its efforts to assert control of the Arctic. United States and other countries reject Canada's claim over the Northwest Passage, a potential shipping channel through the Arctic. High commodity prices have also prompted interest in minerals under the region.
 ''This satellite will help us vigorously protect our Arctic sovereignty as international interest in the region increases,'' Mr. Prentice said in a statement issued in October.
 Canadian legal experts and many politicians, including some Conservatives, said that a sale of MacDonald Dettwiler would put the satellite under the control of American laws that emphasize the need for satellite policies to follow the United States' foreign and economic policy interests.
 ''If the United States becomes the licensing authority, Ottawa's ability to control what the satellite is used for and to commandeer the equipment in emergencies might be lost,'' Michael Byers, a professor of international law and global politics at the University of British Columbia, told a parliamentary hearing last month. 
 ''Suppose, for instance, that Canada wanted priority access for sovereignty assertion purposes just as a major war involving the United States was breaking out in the Middle East,'' Professor Byers said. ''One can even imagine the U.S. government using Radarsat-2 in ways that directly contradict Canada's interests.''
 Marc Garneau, Canada's first astronaut and a former president of the Canadian Space Agency, also recommended that the sale be stopped.
 ''It is certain that other countries with strategically important space companies would not allow such foreign takeovers,'' Mr. Garneau told Parliament.
 At separate Parliamentary hearings, Daniel E. Friedmann, the president and chief executive of MacDonald Dettwiler, and an A.T.K. executive rejected the idea that the Canadian government would lose any control of the satellite.
 The United States Embassy in Ottawa referred questions about the satellite's status to the State Department, which did not respond to requests for comment. In an e-mail note, Kristin Scuderi, a spokeswoman for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, said the office ''has no role in this and therefore we decline to comment.''
 MacDonald Dettwiler has its own complaints about the Patriot Act and other recent measures in the United States. Their restrictions against foreigners working on crucial projects like satellites, he said last week, limit MacDonald Dettwiler in bidding on contracts in the United States. That has left the Canadian government as the company's only real customer, a fact that prompted the sale of its space unit.
 Laura Ritchie Dawson, an assistant professor at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University here, said the government's decision to finally block a takeover under a law that was recently amended to include national security concerns does not make further rejections more likely.
 ''It does seem that this case is an exceptional one,'' Ms. Dawson wrote in an e-mail message. ''We would not be likely to see the government use the national security card much in the future nor should it have a chilling effect on investment.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAKEOVERS (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PROTECTIONISM (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (54%)

COMPANY: ALLIANT TECHSYSTEMS INC (58%); MACDONALD DETTWILER & ASSOCIATES LTD (57%)

TICKER: ATK (NYSE) (58%); MDA (TSX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS332993 AMMUNITION (EXCEPT SMALL ARMS) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (92%) CANADA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); ARCTIC (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



267 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Trial Begins for 3 Accused of Aiding Bombers

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Three British Muslims accused of helping the suicide bombers who carried out the attacks on London's transportation system in July 2005 went on trial on Thursday, in the first case against people accused of helping plan the attacks.
 The jury was shown a home video, previously kept secret, that depicted Mohammed Sidique Khan, believed to have been the leader of the bombers, bidding farewell to a young daughter before a trip to Pakistan in late 2004. The video offers a personal side of a man who later cast himself as a soldier in a war against the West. 
 ''Sweetheart, not long to go now,'' Mr. Khan says as he holds his daughter and kisses her. ''And I'm going to miss you a lot.''
 He concludes: ''I'm doing what I'm doing for the sake of Islam, not, you know, it's not for materialistic or worldly benefits.'' 
 The men on trial, who were arrested in March 2007, are accused of carrying out a preparatory mission seven months before the attacks on three subways and a bus on July 7, 2005. The prosecutor, Neil Flewitt, said Thursday that on Dec. 16 and 17, 2004, the men accompanied some of the bombers, all of whom later died in the attacks, to locations that ''bore a striking similarity'' to the places where bombs were set off the following July, as well as to a number of tourist areas. 
 In a separate terrorism case in which eight men are on trial, prosecutors on Thursday released what they said were two so-called martyrdom videos found in the trunk of a car in August 2006 after the police arrested several people in what the authorities said was a plot to bomb American and Canadian airliners over the Atlantic. 
 The cases are part of a series of trials that have been unfolding in London over several months. The terrorism cases are sometimes cited by the authorities to bolster arguments for tougher counterterrorism laws. 
 The cases have also highlighted links between some of the suspected conspiracies and, on occasion, have shown the kind of detailed preparation that apparently went into choosing targets.
 Britain's worries over terrorism carried out in the name of militant Islam began after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States but intensified greatly after the four suicide bombers killed 52 people and themselves in London.
 At that time, many Britons assumed the attackers had acted alone. But in court on Thursday, three men -- Waheed Ali, 24, Sadeer Saleem, 27, and Mohammed Shakil, 31 -- were accused of conspiring with the bombers to pinpoint targets.
 Mr. Ali is from East London, and Mr. Saleem and Mr. Shakil were said to have lived in the same Beeston area of Leeds in northern England as did three of the four suicide bombers. 
 The three men were said to have carried out their reconnaissance mission in December 2004, with two of the July 7 bombers, Hasib Mir Hussain and Jermaine Lindsay.
 Mr. Flewitt said in court that the three men did not make or carry bombs but assisted the others ''in one particular and important aspect of their preparation for the London bombings.'' 
 The men have all denied the charges against them. ''Rather it is their case that the purpose of their journey was to enable Waheed Ali to visit his sister in East London,'' Mr. Flewitt said. ''Further, Sadeer Saleem and Mohammed Shakil accept that they visited the Natural History Museum, the London Eye and the London Aquarium but maintain they did for purely social reasons.''
 In the trial relating to the so-called airlines plot of August 2006, which opened last week, one of the eight men accused of conspiracy to murder and other charges was Umar Islam, 29, who appeared in a video that was found in the car trunk and shown to the jury on Thursday.
 In the video, he urged Muslims to attack ''military targets, economic targets and government targets.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The trial of Waheed Ali, left, Sadeer Saleem and Mohammed Shakil began in London on Thursday. They are accused of helping plan the July 2005 subway and bus bombings there.(PHOTOS FROM METROPOLITAN POLICE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (88%); ENGLAND (79%); CANADA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



268 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: With an Eye on Connecticut, Filmmakers Get a Tax Break

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
After watching neighboring states raise their film tax credits to lure film production, New York State has moved to triple its tax incentive -- to 30 percent -- under the budget approved this week by the State Legislature. 
 State and county officials, as well as representatives of the film industry, cheered the increase, saying it put New York back in the running with Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island and other states that had expanded their film incentives. The proposed tax credit would become law when Gov. David A. Paterson signs the budget, which he is expected to do.
 ''They upped the ante in the other states, and the gap had grown,'' said Hal Rosenbluth, president of Kaufman Astoria Studios in New York City. ''That's always been the goal -- to narrow the gap between the costs in New York and the costs in other areas. This is going to bring those jobs back here and get us back on track.''
 ''This will keep New York in the forefront of the film production world,'' said Pat Swinney Kaufman, executive director of the Governor's Office for Motion Picture and Television Development. 
 Connecticut's film credit took effect in July 2006, and the state soon saw a spurt in film activity, to 66 feature films, television shows and commercials, from the occasional shoot, yielding $400 million in production costs. 
 The impact on New York was immediate, state officials said. Ms. Kaufman's office reported that in the 12 months before the introduction of Connecticut's tax credit, the New York State film office received 60 applications from feature films for the 10 percent incentive, with a projected total expenditure of $966 million. In the 12 months after, there were 39 applications, with a total projected budget of $215 million.
 Connecticut's incentive is, in some ways, still more attractive than New York's since it covers more than ''below the line'' costs, like crews' wages, wardrobe, props, catering, location fees and equipment rentals. Unlike New York's, Connecticut's credit also covers the salaries of actors, directors and producers, as well as script development.
 Officials in Westchester County, which has witnessed a big drop in feature films, were jubilant nonetheless. ''This is really good news for Westchester and for the state, especially during this period of economic downturn,'' said William J. Ryan, chairman of the county's Board of Legislators, who had pushed for the increase.
 Production companies that make movies in New York City will continue to receive an additional 5 percent tax credit from the city government, bringing the total incentive to 35 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CITIES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); LEGISLATION (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



269 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: The Fed's Money Well Spent

BYLINE: By ALICE M. RIVLIN. 
Alice M. Rivlin, a former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Clinton administration, is a senior fellow in economic studies at the Brookings Institution.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 ONE benefit of the Federal Reserve's rescue of Bear Stearns is that public outrage has aroused the political system to action in mitigating the foreclosure crisis. 
 Never mind that the supposed conflict between Wall Street and Main Street is a false one -- Main Street runs on credit and cannot prosper if the financial system is in shambles and credit dries up. Never mind that the supposed Fat Cat ''bailout'' was a disaster for Bear Stearns stockholders, and that the idea of a ''moral hazard'' risk -- that other investment banks will be tempted to emulate Bear Stearns -- is preposterous. Never mind that if markets head back up and the collateral can be sold at a profit, taxpayers may lose nothing.
 In the end, the Fed's action was not aimed at rescuing those who made bad decisions out of greed or stupidity, but at protecting the rest of the country -- and indeed the world -- from the possibly devastating consequences of a financial meltdown. 
 Nevertheless, the outrage is both understandable and useful. Public money has been put at risk to calm a storm on Wall Street while ordinary people are losing their homes. The public is crying, ''What about us?'' and politicians are listening, as they should. 
 Like the failure of a financial behemoth, spreading foreclosures engulf the innocent as well as the imprudent and unwise. To be sure, many homeowners were shortsighted and greedy. Like their Wall Street counterparts they borrowed too much and got caught when the music stopped. Like the Bear Stearns shareholders, they should take losses. But putting them out of their homes does not merely harm them and their children, it endangers whole neighborhoods and drags down the assets of their more prudent neighbors. 
 Congress and the Bush administration should move quickly -- as they proved they could with the rapid passage of the stimulus package -- to enact laws to ease the renegotiation of mortgages and keep homeowners who are able to pay the new charges in their homes. Public money will have to be put at risk, but it is worth it. The deals should be structured so that the taxpayer shares in the gains if markets recover and the properties or mortgages are later sold at a profit. 
 When the immediate crisis is past, however, we must turn to the difficult task of reducing the chances of a replay. It will not be easy to design regulations that do more good than harm, but at the very least all financial institutions that stand to benefit from Federal Reserve help in a crisis must be subject to regulatory scrutiny to make sure they are managing their risk prudently. There must be higher capital requirements and limits on excessive leverage. If the rules are reasonable, we should not weep if a few high fliers choose to move their operations to other countries with laxer rules. Our markets will be better off without them.
 After that, we must take on the even harder job of sorting through the explosion of financial instruments that have proliferated in the boom and deciding which belong in our kit of tools and which should be relegated to the waste heap. If they genuinely spread risk and help move capital into more productive uses, they should stay. But some exotic derivatives seem mainly to reflect the efforts of traders to outsmart each other. Their opaqueness may entail more systemic risk than social value.
 The folks who devise these exotica are talented enough to create something useful. We would all be better off if they were productively employed in the ''real'' economy -- or pursued wealth in Las Vegas, where the risks the smartest gamblers pose to the house are carefully controlled. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID SUTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); CHILDREN (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



270 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: March Sales Were Weak As Shoppers Felt Pinched

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
With little money left after buying food and fuel, American shoppers handed most retailers their most dismal March in 13 years.
 As retailers reported sales results on Thursday, Wal-Mart Stores and the Costco Wholesale Corporation were among the few winners, as shoppers stuck to basics. Wal-Mart raised its earnings outlook, noting that better inventory control helped to limit markdowns on merchandise. It also said that April sales should top prior expectations. 
 But March proved to be bleak for most others, including the J. C. Penney Company, Gap, and Limited Brands. All of them reported sharp drops in sales. Even high-end department stores like Saks languished; Saks noted that jewelry and designer women's apparel were among the weakest areas.
 Merchants faced numerous obstacles to improving sales: record gas prices, rising food costs, a weaker job market, slumping home prices and an early, frigid Easter. 
 ''Consumers are buying what they need,'' said Jennifer Black, president of Jennifer Black & Associates, an equity research company in Lake Oswego, Ore. For everything else, shoppers are being pickier and focusing on discounters, she said.
 According to a preliminary tally by UBS-International Council of Shopping Centers, sales slid 0.5 percent versus its original estimate of 1 percent growth. The results, based on same-store sales, or sales at stores open for at least a year, were the weakest since March 1995, when the industry registered a decline of 0.8 percent.
 Wal-Mart was a bright spot. It reported a 0.7 percent gain in same-store sales, excluding sales of fuel. Still, that was slightly below the 1 percent estimate by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.
 Wal-Mart raised its first-quarter earnings outlook because of better inventory controls that yielded fewer markdowns and reduced store theft. The company also benefited from strong sales of groceries, video games and other electronics.
 Costco posted a 7 percent gain in sales, higher than expected, with much of the gain coming from gasoline sales.
 Many department stores and apparel chains suffered, though.
 Among department stores, J. C. Penney posted a larger-than-expected 12.3 percent sales decline. The department store retailer had warned late last month that same-store sales would be down at least 10 percent in a souring economy.
 Saks reported a 2.9 percent decline in same-store sales, in contrast to the 3.5 percent gain that Wall Street anticipated. Nordstrom had a 9.1 percent decline in same-store sales; analysts had expected an 8 percent drop.
 Limited Brands reported an 8 percent drop in sales. Gap had an 18 percent drop in same-store sales, dragged down by a 27 percent drop at its Old Navy division.
 Sellers of teenage goods, which typically are more recession-proof than other categories, stumbled last month, too. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A family passing bulk packages of diapers at a Costco store in Tucson. Costco appears to be benefiting from a shift to thriftiness among consumers as the American economy slows. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES) GRAPH: RETAIL SALES IN MARCH (Source: Goldman Sachs & Company, based on company reports.) Graph showing the total amount of retail sales at major stores. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); SHOPLIFTING (73%); HOME PRICES (68%); EMPLOYMENT (54%)

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (95%); J C PENNEY CO INC (93%); WAL-MART STORES INC (76%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (55%)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (95%); JCP (NYSE) (93%); WMT (NYSE) (76%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (70%) ARIZONA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



271 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Billions of Barrels of Oil May Lie Under Northern Plains

BYLINE: By CATRIN EINHORN

 BODY:
An area of shale and other rock in North Dakota and Montana is estimated to hold the largest potential oil resources in the 48 contiguous states, according to an assessment released Thursday by the United States Geological Survey. 
 The area, known as the Bakken Formation, might contain 3 billion to 4.3 billion barrels of oil that could be extracted using current technology, the survey said. 
 The United States had an estimated 21 billion barrels of proven oil reserves in 2006, according to the Energy Department. The new assessment by the Geological Survey could raise these reserves once drilling starts. 
 The survey reinforces what oil companies who have flocked to the region already knew: a boom is afoot. But geologists and industry officials alike cautioned that the number was simply an estimate, easily skewed higher or lower by technological advances or economic changes. If the price of oil drops, companies will not be willing to spend as much to extract it, and the Bakken Formation, which also extends into Canada, requires an expensive technique called horizontal drilling. 
 ''Just because a study says this amount is potentially recoverable doesn't mean that this is what we're going to recover,'' said Ron Ness, president of the North Dakota Petroleum Council. ''The technology might change, and we recover twice as much. The economics might change, and we recover a third as much.''
 The new estimate covers undiscovered, technically recoverable oil resources, which it defines as those ''producible using currently available technology and industry practices.'' That definition is one notch below the ''proven'' oil reserve category.
 Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota and the person who requested the survey, said the oil resources should attract more investment to his state and make the United States ''marginally'' less dependent on foreign oil.
 ''The technology always improves and advances,'' Mr. Dorgan said, ''so there's probably much more recoverable in the future.'' 
 The United States uses about seven billion barrels of oil a year.
 The survey reveals a 25-fold increase from the last United States Geological Survey assessment of the Bakken Formation in 1995, which estimated that 151 million barrels could be extracted. Richard M. Pollastro, a research geologist with the agency who led the assessment, attributed the change to advances in drilling technology and an improved understanding of the formation's geology. 
 With oil prices rising above $110 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange this week, unconventional resources like shale rock are becoming more profitable to develop.
 The Bakken Formation is the largest oil resource ever assessed by the agency in which the oil is dispersed throughout the rock instead of sitting in separate places. Known as ''continuous'' oil accumulation, this type of distribution makes the oil harder and more expensive to extract. 
 Mr. Pollastro estimates that it would take tens of thousands of wells to extract the oil.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Crews looking for oil deposits last year in North Dakota. Now an area in the region is estimated to hold vast oil resources.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN KOECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: BYRON DORGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



272 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Storefronts as Metaphor for a Changing Borough

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Paul Lacy, 50, has lived in Brooklyn for all but two years since 1983. He has worked as a night watchman and an apprentice furniture maker. Now he does freelance page layout for publishers of science and technical books. But Mr. Lacy's real passion -- like that of so many New Yorkers who are defined as much by their hobbies as their day jobs -- is street photography. He has just published his first book, ''Brooklyn Storefronts,'' 75 color photographs of small, independently owned stores.
 City Room first noticed the book, which W. W. Norton published as a paperback last month, on sale in the gift shop at the Whitney Biennial. More than merely documenting the great variety of small businesses in Brooklyn, it provides a glimpse of the often rapid social and economic change that many residents fear is transforming Brooklyn neighborhoods and threatening the unique enterprises that have long made them distinctive. 
 Mr. Lacy said he began photographing the storefronts a few years ago, often encountering subjects while riding his bicycle. ''I knew northern Brooklyn and coastal Brooklyn, but I didn't know the central Brooklyn area where I was to move,'' he said. ''In a way, I was exploring all the places that I would then patronize. If I saw a place that repaired vacuum cleaners, I would think, 'Hey, I should remember that.' ''
 The images, taken since 2001, reflect the eclectic nature of Brooklyn commerce: a taxidermist in Cypress Hills, or places with unusual names like Sin City Lounge, in Williamsburg, or Smai Tawi Afrakan Kultural Wellness and Martial Art Center, in Crown Heights.
 ''A small, independently owned store is singular and so is a hand-painted sign,'' he writes in the book's foreword. ''When you see one, you have to wonder whether there will be something inside not found in the other stores, let alone the chains and franchises. Very often there is: a lovingly made dish made from a family recipe, a display of photographs or posters, a funny story, catchy tunes from another land: there are so many surprises.''
 Mr. Lacy said the book ''came about somewhat by chance'' when he showed prints to a friend who passed them on to James L. Mairs, an editor at Norton and the publisher of Quantuck Lane Press, which publishes photography books.
 Asked what criteria were used to select 75 images, he wrote in an e-mail message: ''It was never stated outright while Jim and I were selecting the pictures, because we were proceeding intuitively, but one way to think about it is warmth. Warmth -- the way people talk about vinyl records as having a warmer sound than do CDs. ... So yes, there is nostalgia, but also there is a timeless value, a preference, if you will, for that which is warm and friendly.''
 He used a simple point-and-shoot digital camera. ''I'd go back and visit the same place until I felt it was the right time to take the picture,'' Mr. Lacy said, explaining that he often waited for a time of day with more compelling light, or even for a day when different alternate-side parking rules were in effect so that cars would not obstruct his view of the storefronts. Even as the stores change, the parking rules, it seems, remain constant.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAUL LACY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); FURNITURE MFG (73%); PAPERBACK PUBLISHING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



273 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5666 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 ASIA SOCIETY AND MUSEUM: 'DESIGNED FOR PLEASURE: THE WORLD OF EDO JAPAN IN PRINTS AND PAINTINGS, 1680-1860,' through May 4. Organized by the Japanese Art Society, this show anchors the ''floating world'' of ukiyo-e prints firmly in economic and social reality. It includes works by well-known artists, including Hokusai and Hiroshige, and emphasizes the entrepreneurial role of print publishers and the relationship between printmaking, painting and literature in the Edo period. Because the prints are sensitive to light, ''Designed for Pleasure'' will be shown in two installments. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Karen Rosenberg) 
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART: '$;MURAKAMI,' through July 13. Bring the kids and the shopping-centered tweens. This survey of Takashi Murakami, the artist frequently called the Japanese Andy Warhol, has it all: immense, toylike sculptures; an animated cartoon that rivals Disney; and a fully functioning Louis Vuitton boutique (Brooklyn's first!) selling Murakami bags. But it also elucidates the trajectory of an artist who began by recycling Japanese popular culture and then gradually figured out how to go deeper, harnessing Japanese traditions of painting, craft and spirituality. The art-commerce, high-low conundrums are fun, but the steady improvement in the paintings is the real heart of the matter. Along with the animated cartoons, which should please aesthetes of all ages, there is a moral component as well. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith) 
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'UTAGAWA: MASTERS OF THE JAPANESE PRINT, 1770-1900,' through June 15. This fascinating show tells the story of a group of artists that dominated the woodblock print business in Japan for much of the 19th century. Not everything in it is a masterpiece, but among its 95 prints are stunning portraits of actors, geishas and warriors; colorful retellings of old myths; views of contemporary urban life; and gorgeous, poetically captivating landscapes. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'ROCOCO: THE CONTINUING CURVE, 1730-2008,' through July 6. This enthralling show has an extraordinarily high sumptuousness quotient. It explores the 18th-century Rococo style and its legacy, with a focus on furniture, ceramic vases, jewelry, mirrors, snuff boxes and other sorts of domestic ware. It includes works from most of the countries that Rococo reached, from Germany to Guatemala; takes in 19th-century Rococo revivals; and pursues the spirit if not the actual style of Rococo into the 20th century and beyond. 2 East 91st Street, Manhattan, (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Johnson)
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'ART DOES NOT EQUAL LIFE: ACTIONS BY ARTISTS OF THE AMERICAS, 1960-2000,' through May 18. The redefinition of modernism(s) through the illumination of its Latin American manifestations has been one of the joys of the current New York art season. This revelatory addition concentrates on the Happenings, Conceptual and Performance Art and Body Art and video that thrived in Latin America despite, or in response to, dire political and economic situations. With photographic and video documentation in the majority, the toughness and scope of the material, aided by a thoughtful installation, create their own fascination. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Smith) 
 THE FRICK COLLECTION: 'PARMIGIANINO'S ''ANTEA'': A BEAUTIFUL ARTIFICE,' through April 27. Exhibitions don't come any smaller than ''Parmigianino's 'Antea': A Beautiful Artifice.'' A painting, a wall text, a nugget of a scholarly catalog, and that's it. It's enough. Certain pictures, like certain performers, don't need troops of extras to make a large effect. Solo suits them. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Holland Cotter)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CAI GUO-QIANG: I WANT TO BELIEVE,' through May 28. This museumwide survey of a leading Chinese artist indicates considerable command of cross-cultural references and extreme appropriation, including a gang of sculptors remaking a classic Social Realist ensemble of life-size figures while you watch. Gunpowder is a favored material, violence a frequent motif. A stop-action installation of seemingly exploding cars hangs in the atrium space. Scores of arrows make pincushions of snarling tigers (stuffed), and there are carved-wood religious sculptures and an entire fishing boat. Videos documenting pyrotechnical land-art pieces go boom. The show has far more than its share of hollow spectacle. The scorched, mural-size gunpowder drawings that combine elements of performance art, Abstract Expressionism and traditional Chinese and Japanese painting are the most believable. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
 International Center of Photography: 'Archive Fever: Uses of the Document in Contemporary Art,' through May 4. You need no grounding in art theory to understand the messages generated by this powerful brain-pincher of a theme show. The archive of the title is less a thing or a place than a concept, an immersive environment: the sum total of documentary images, mostly photographic, circulating in the culture, on the street, in the media and finally in what is called the collective memory. From an Andy Warhol silk-screen of a black civil rights demonstrator attacked by police dogs, to a gallery wallpapered with the front pages of international newspapers reporting on the destruction of the twin towers, truth, untruth and their consequences make up the riveting story here. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0045, icp.org. (Cotter)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'THE COLLECTIONS OF BARBARA BLOOM,' through May 4. Instead of the walk-in installations for which Ms. Bloom is best known, this survey displays pieces from different phases of her career as discrete works of sculpture, assemblage, collage, photography and design. This is confusing, but attentive viewers will profit from studying her ideologically subversive, dryly humorous and formally inventive play with many different forms of representation, from faux-antique plaster self-portrait busts to a found-object sculpture in the form of a Braille edition of Playboy magazine. (See above.) (Johnson)
 JAPAN SOCIETY: 'THE GENIUS OF JAPANESE LACQUER: MASTERWORKS BY SHIBATA ZESHIN,' through June 15. In Japan, before there was plastic, there was lacquer. Shiny, waterproof and lightweight, it made an excellent coating for wooden cups, bowls, utensils and food storage containers. In the hands of a skilled, ingenious artisan like Shibata Zeshin (1807-1891) it was a high art. This beautiful show presents almost 75 objects -- many dumbfoundingly sumptuous -- and paintings by this man, considered the greatest of all Japanese lacquer artists. 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 832-1155, japansociety.org. (Johnson)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'WARHOL'S JEWS: TEN PORTRAITS RECONSIDERED,' through Aug. 3. In 1980 Andy Warhol produced a series of portraits of famous Jews, including Sigmund Freud, Gertrude Stein and the Marx Brothers. When they appeared at the Jewish Museum that year, the critics hated them. But they were warmly received by Jewish audiences when they were exhibited in museums and Jewish institutions around the country. Viewing them in this return engagement, it is hard to imagine anyone growing very excited for or against such bland, posterlike images. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'GUSTAVE COURBET,' through May 18. Starting with an amazing if claustrophobic gallery of self-portraits that emphasize Courbet's ambition, attention to the old masters and inborn truculence, this show offers a grand tour of one of 19th-century European painting's most unruly geniuses. Realism, at whose prow he is usually placed, is in many ways the least of it. Several works could easily date from the 20th century, by artists like Balthus, Picabia or Max Ernst. What Courbet made most real was the sheer, implicitly ironic uncanniness of painting itself, which he conveyed in a commanding discombobulation. Some paintings barely hold together; others collapse inward into strange, shapeless masses. No artist before Picasso put so much of himself on canvas; few since have built in so many spatial booby traps, ambiguous feelings or elements of rebellion and dissent. Some were conscious; others were left for us to discover, to feel in our bones. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
 THE MET: 'JASPER JOHNS: GRAY,' through May 4. Since his paintings of targets and American flags took the art world by storm 50 years ago, Jasper Johns has been a cultural fact and the subject of numerous museum exhibitions. But this is one of the best. Moody, opulent and eloquent, it singles out his many paintings in gray, the color at the core of his sensibility, along with numerous sculptures, drawings and prints that are inherently gray. Together they chronicle his maturation from brilliant, methodical young artist to a deeper, more lyrical, less predictable one. And frankly, it is almost a relief to follow the incessant unfolding of this singular career without the brightly colored, better-known masterpieces. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'POUSSIN AND NATURE: ARCADIAN VISIONS,' through May 11. If a painter can be judged by the love he inspires, Nicholas Poussin (1594-1665) was one of art history's great valentines. Corot, Delacroix, Constable and Cezanne all adored him. So did Picasso and Matisse. You can see why in this show of his post-Classical, pre-Romantic landscapes and drawings. Every age has a different style for ''serious'' in art; Poussin's was different from our own, but enthralling and moving in its moral gravity and poise. (See above.) (Cotter) 
 THE MET: 'SILVERSMITHS TO THE NATION: THOMAS FLETCHER AND SIDNEY GARDINER, 1808-1842,' through May 4. Blending neo-Classical kitsch, patriotic flair and superb craftsmanship, the Philadelphia silversmiths Thomas Fletcher and Sidney Gardiner pumped up the genre of the commemorative cup to works of awesome, small-scale monumentalism. Standing almost 30 inches from its hairy paw feet to the furrowed brow of a bellicose eagle mounted on the lid of its soup tureen bowl, an urn made in 1813 to honor Capt. Isaac Hull was at the time the heaviest, tallest and most complex work in silver ever produced in North America. It is still pretty impressive. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ART OF TIME: EUROPEAN CLOCKS AND WATCHES FROM THE COLLECTION,' through April 27. This enthralling, compact show presents about 90 European timepieces, ranging from pocket watches to grandfather clocks and dating from the 16th through the 18th centuries. There are traditional mantel clocks in wooden, peaked-roofed houses and extravagantly fanciful forms like one from 1579 that has a revolving globe engraved with star charts and figures of the zodiac held up on the wingtips of a flying horse, all beautifully fashioned in silver. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE MET: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'MICHELANGELO, VASARI AND THEIR CONTEMPORARIES: DRAWINGS FROM THE UFFIZI,' through April 20. Michelangelo, with a couple of spectacular drawings, is the marquee name here, but many of the 16th-century Florentine artists he influenced fill the space, beginning with the extreme polymath Giorgio Vasari. A handful of drawings by Pontormo and Rosso Fiorentino will knock your socks off, as will work by a few less familiar artists, all working to make the Medici rulers of Florence look good. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008590-0310, morganlibrary.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF ARTS & DESIGN: 'PRICKED: EXTREME EMBROIDERY,' through April 27. The second in a series of exhibitions (following last year's ''Radical Lace and Subversive Knitting''), ''Pricked'' makes another case for needlecraft without the ''craft.'' The show places widely known contemporary artists like Laura Owens and Ghada Amer alongside Elaine Reichek and others who have been working with thread and textiles since the '70s. In the best works historical and technical concerns overlap, just as they do in traditional embroidered samplers. 40 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 956-3535, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'COLOR CHART: REINVENTING COLOR, 1950 TO TODAY,' through May 12. Organized by Ann Temkin, a curator in the museum's department of painting and sculpture, color functions as a ready-made in ''Color Chart'' -- something to be bought or appropriated, rather than mixed on a palette. The show is a rejoinder to the notion of color as the province of formalists, and to the idea that Minimal and Conceptual art comes only in shades of black, white and gray. In the upper section of the lobby a floor created by the artist Jim Lambie surrounds concentric strips of brightly hued tape. In the galleries there are postwar classics by Ellsworth Kelly, Robert Rauschenberg and Sherrie Levine. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PICTURING NEW YORK: THE ART OF YVONNE JACQUETTE AND RUDY BURCKHARDT,' through April 13 (Burckhardt); through May 4 (Jacquette). This dual exhibition displays photographs by Burckhardt, who died at 85 in 1999, alongside paintings by Ms. Jacquette, his widow and 20 years his junior, who is still working. Burckhardt's black-and-white images approach the city from several angles, descending from rooftops to street level and even into the subways. Ms. Jacquette's works peer down into the canyons between high-rises. This pair of shows does not establish either artist as an unjustly overlooked talent, but it reveals the competing visions of the city behind a romantic and creative partnership. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Rosenberg)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'GUSTAV KLIMT: THE RONALD S. LAUDER AND SERGE SABARSKY COLLECTIONS,' through June 30. The first New York museum show devoted exclusively to this Viennese master is less a coherent Klimt exhibition than a Klimt-o-rama. The main draw is a veritable retrospective of the drawings, erotic and otherwise, and a smattering of paintings starring the new-in-town, gold-on-gold ''Adele Bloch-Bauer I.'' Also here: a photo mural of sections of Klimt's most famous painted mural, the ''Beethoven Frieze''; a period room; photographs and personal effects, including one of the artist's signature caftans; and piped-in music, all written in Vienna of course, and available for purchase on CD. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'WIENER WERKSTaTTE JEWELRY,' through June 30. Founded in 1903, the Wiener Werkstatte, or Vienna Workshops, set out to prove that the modern world still needed fine craftsmanship and good design. Its first product was jewelry, of which this stunning exhibition presents 40 gorgeous examples. Works in gold, silver and semi-precious stones by the workshop's co-founders, Josef Hoffmann and Koloman Moser, and others -- including, most notably, Dagobert Peche -- magically blur the line between personal ornament and miniature sculpture. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES LIBRARY: 'MONUMENTAL FRANCE: THE PHOTOGRAPHS OF EDOUARD BALDUS' AND SKETCHES ON GLASS: CLICHES-VERRE FROM THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY,' through June 28. This pair of exhibitions focuses on the experimental period after the birth of photography (the 1850s through the 1870s). Film had not yet been invented, but glass-plate and paper negatives allowed artists to micromanage the camera's performance or to bypass it entirely. ''Monumental France: The Photographs of Edouard Baldus'' gathers 38 artisanal prints of French architectural landmarks. ''Sketches on Glass: Cliches-Verre From the New York Public Library'' presents prints made with hand-drawn glass plates on light-sensitive paper (no camera required). Together these shows reveal that artists in mid-19th-century France blurred the distinction between the photograph and the unique object. Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street, (212) 930-0830, nypl.org. (Rosenberg)
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'DESIGN: ISAMU KENMOCHI AND ISAMU NOGUCHI,' through May 25. The Bamboo Basket Chair was the result of a brief collaboration in 1950 between the Japanese-American sculptor and designer Isamu Noguchi (1904-88) and the Japanese industrial designer Isamu Kenmochi (1912-71). The chair was never manufactured, and the prototype was lost. The example here was recreated from photographs. Mostly, however, the chair provides an excuse to compare the design careers of Noguchi and Kenmochi and examine their roles in midcentury modern design, as well as the cultural relationship between Japan and the United States. Kenmochi's ''Japanese modern'' furniture is here, as well as a room devoted to Noguchi's most popular design achievement, the Akari light sculptures. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Martha Schwendener)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'WACK! ART AND THE FEMINIST REVOLUTION,' through May 12. This fascinating scrapbook of a show focuses on the years between the mid-1960s and the early '80s, when feminism had its most intense impact on contemporary art. Presenting works by 120 women, it is uneven in quality, but the overall effect is exciting. It takes you back to a heady time when women were throwing out old, patriarchal laws and reinventing art in all kinds of idiosyncratic and sometimes dangerously extreme terms. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'FLOW,' through June 29. Afropolitanism is the modish tag for recent work by young African artists. What unites them is a shared view of Africa, less as a place than as a concept, a cultural force -- one that runs through the world the way a gulf stream runs through an ocean, part of the whole, but with its own tides and temperatures. This idea, or something like it, lies behind ''Flow,'' a fine-textured survey of 20 artists who, with a few exceptions, were born in Africa after 1970 but who now live in Europe or the United States. The show is a worthy successor to ''Freestyle'' and ''Frequency,'' benchmark surveys of new African-American art. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'WHITNEY BIENNIAL 2008,' through June 1. This year's light-touch show takes lowered expectations -- lessness, ephemerality and failure, to use the words of its young curators, Henriette Huldisch and Shamim M. Momin -- as its theme, and makes at least an appearance of trying to circumvent an object-obsessed market. With 81 artists, this is the smallest Biennial in a while, and feels that way, even as it fills three floors and more of the museum, and continues at the Park Avenue Armory (at 67th Street), with a program of installation and performance art. If the overall mix feels uncharismatic, there are good artists on hand, most with work commissioned by the museum for the occasion. In an anti-triumphalist show, uncertainty, political and existential, rules. (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 CARROLL DUNHAM, 'PAINTINGS ON WOOD, 1982-1987' Few careers in painting have been more consistently interesting to follow over the past 25 years than Carroll Dunham's. It all began back in the early 1980s when he discovered plywood. From 1982 to 1987, he painted on laminated pine and later on panels covered with more exotic veneers, creating abstract, funny and strange duets of grainy wood and polymorphous paint. This vibrant exhibition presents a selection of those seminal works. Skarstedt Gallery, 20 East 79th Street, (212) 737-2060, skarstedt.com, through April 19. (Johnson)
 'RE-ORIENTATIONS: ISLAMIC ART AND THE WEST IN THE 18TH AND 19TH CENTURIES' There have been major exhibitions on the influence of Islamic culture on Europe. And relatively few that have traced influence the other way, which is what this small scholarly show, the product of a Hunter College art history seminar, does. Using little-studied objects from the Metropolitan Museum's Islamic collection, it looks at art produced in India, Iran and Iraq in the 18th and 19th centuries, when Western colonial influences were flowing in. Far from being an aesthetically dim era, it was one of fascinating, complex change. Bertha and Karl Leubsdorf Art Gallery, Hunter College, 68th Street at Lexington Avenue, (212) 772-4991, hunter.cuny.edu, through April 26. (Cotter)
 'WINE, WORSHIP AND SACRIFICE: THE GOLDEN GRAVES OF ANCIENT VANI' In small but elegant new galleries, a study center founded in 2006 under the auspices of New York University presents its inaugural exhibition. This show offers more than 100 objects unearthed from ancient graves in Vani, a cosmopolitan city established in Colchis -- modern-day Georgia -- in the eighth century B.C. It includes beautiful, intricate gold jewelry discovered in grave sites of the rich and powerful; the life-size bronze torso of a youth made in classic Hellenistic style; and two strikingly exotic bronze lamps with functional parts in the form of elephant heads. Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, 15 East 84th Street, (212) 992-7810, nyu.edu/isaw, through June 1. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 NINA CHANEL ABNEY: 'DIRTY WASH' This promising young painter has race on her caustically inclined mind and a developing style that could be said to negotiate a truce between Robert Colescott and Kara Walker; history painting and political caricature; and the nation's diverse shades of skin. Minstrelsy plays its part. The results include Condoleezza Rice in a bikini, Al Sharpton in a fireman's hat and Barack Obama crossing the Delaware. All are all put forth with a raucously beautiful palette and malevolent details lurking in every corner. Kravets/Wehby Gallery, 521 West 21st Street, (212) 352-2238, kravetswehbygallery.com, through April 19. (Smith)
 ASHLEY BICKERTON In garish digital photographs printed on canvas, partly overpainted and presented within wide, wooden frames elaborately decorated to resemble Indonesian tourist kitsch, Mr. Bickerton stars as an Ugly American in a South Pacific paradise. His skin is blue, and he is accompanied by voluptuous female islanders whose partly nude bodies are painted in tropical hues. The question is, does unchecked hedonism lead to erotic utopia or moral insanity? Lehmann Maupin Gallery, 540 West 26th Street, (212) 255-2923, lehmannmaupin.com, through May 3. (Johnson)
 LABORATORIO 060 This spare show, part documentary, part participatory, is the work of the Laboratorio 060, a Mexico City artists collective (Lourdes Morales, Javier Toscano and Daniela Wolf are the members) that for the most part operates outside of the traditional gallery setting. It creates interventionist projects with street vendors as collaborators; it rethinks the notion of beauty by asking young women to pose in a street vending stall as the Venus de Milo; it brings art to new audiences by turning rush-hour traffic into a performance piece. Cue Art Foundation, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 206-3583, cueartfoundation.org, through April 19. (Cotter)
 MARTHA WILSON: 'PHOTO/TEXT WORKS, 1971-74' In 1976 the conceptual artist and performer Martha Wilson opened her TriBeCa loft to the public as Franklin Furnace, a nonprofit documentary center, archive and exhibition space for artists' books and ephemera that housed some of the most intriguing and fleeting work in town. More than 30 years later, Ms. Wilson is having a show of her own 1970s work, which was in sync with early feminist concerns about distorted and self-distorting images of women. But it also explored what it meant to be self-created and constantly self-revised as an artist and as a person. It's her first solo ever, and it's a gem. A pioneer in preserving art turns out to be a pioneer in creating it. Mitchell Algus Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 242-6242, through April 26. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Other
 'COUP DE GRACE' A new addition to the Lower East Side art scene is the clean, well-lighted space of Simon Preston, formerly of the Project. This inaugural show centers on the merciful death blow that is intended to end suffering. Daniel Joseph Martinez's mechanized sculpture spews fake blood onto the wall and floor from a nozzle hidden in a stuffed rabbit. Mary Kelly imagines a postcard (writ large in a thick layer of lint) from the mother of James Chaney, the murdered civil rights worker. Michelle Lopez adds prosthetic limbs to a tree branch. Touhami Ennadre and General Idea round out the theme of anguished death and the violated body, and no one has any intention of putting us out of our misery. Simon Preston, 301 Broome Street, between Eldridge and Forsyth Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 431-1105, simonprestongallery.com; through April 23. (Smith)
 ALICE O'MALLEY: 'COMMUNITY OF ELSEWHERES' An old-style space in the rapidly gentrifying Lower East Side gives a sense of undergrounds recently past or present in this show of Alice O'Malley's full-length portrait photographs. Artists (Nicole Eisenman, Justine Kurland, Jocelyn Taylor); poets (Eileen Myles); performers (Dean Johnson); party givers (Kenny Kenny); and professional partygoers (Viva) mingle in a display organized by the singer Antony that catches a still gritty cross-dressing, reverse-grandeur moment that wasn't so long ago -- circa 2001 -- but is fading fast. Participant Inc., 253 East Houston Street, (212) 254-4334, through May 4. (Cotter)
 IAN PEDIGO: 'TITANIUM PRO' Located at the overpopulated intersection of collage and assemblage -- and using a combination of magazine images, found paper, tape and cast-off domestic building materials -- this work avoids many of the current cliches. Everything is used sparely and with a geometric sense of structure; details stand out and include drawing, applications of color and little touches that may or may not be accidental. All is revealed. Thought and physical precision foment a kind of resurrection. Klaus Von Nichtssagend Gallery, 438 Union Avenue, near Devoe Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 383-7309, klausgallery.com, through April 20. (Smith)
 'UNDER PAIN OF DEATH' This uneven show about capital punishment has too many pieces that are only indirectly related to the theme, but it has some thought-provoking works, including ''The Last Supper,'' an Errol Morris-style documentary film by Mats Bigert and Lars Bergstrom, about preparing final meals for condemned prisoners; and an understated, oddly abstracted video by Harun Farocki in which surveillance tapes reveal murderous conditions in a maximum-security prison. Austrian Cultural Form, 11 East 52nd Street, (212) 319-5300, acfny.org, through May 10. (Johnson)
 Out of Town
 SMITHSONIAN AMERICAN ART MUSEUM : 'COLOR AS FIELD: AMERICAN PAINTING, 1950-1975,' through May 26. An overdue, if far from perfect, reconsideration of Color Field painting reintroduces the joyful pictorial derring-do of an art movement partly done in by the single-minded advocacy of its biggest fan, the great American art critic Clement Greenberg. It is wonderful to see some of the best of this work float free of the Greenbergian claims for greatness and inevitability, propelled by the fantastic soft power of brilliant color, big scale and judicious amounts of pristine raw canvas -- especially as wielded by Helen Frankenthaler, Morris Louis, Kenneth Noland and Jules Olitski. Perhaps humorless power-lust prevented Greenberg from seeing that if, as he said, Abstract Expressionism was Baroque, then Color Field might be Rococo: beautiful, sometimes frivolous and even comedic. Eighth Street and F Street, NW, Washington, (202) 633-7970, americanart.si.edu. (Smith)
 Last Chance
 'THE ENGAGING WORLD OF DORIS LEE (1905-1983)' During the 1940s and '50s the wrongfully forgotten Doris Lee evolved a sophisticated fusion of folk art, illustration and modernist painting that ran the gamut from Grandma Moses to a rather prim Abstract Expressionism. She had just enough of everything -- touch, color sense, humor, love of painting, sophistication -- to make some fey, truly irresistible paintings. D. Wigmore Fine Art, 730 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 581-1657, dwigmore.com; closes on Monday. (Smith)
 'FACES FROM MEDIEVAL JAPAN' Featured in religious rituals and then retired to temples where they continued to ward off evil, these rare 14th-through-17th-century carved wood masks depict demons, monkeys and, in one case, an old man in expressions that range from subtle to grotesque. They are displayed with a large Muromachi-period mandala depicting the Nachi shrine and its famous waterfall that should also not be missed. Koichi Yanagi Fine Arts, 17 East 71 Street, (212) 744-5577; closes on Tuesday. (Smith)
 'HERE COMES THE SUN: LORI ELLISON AND SHARI MENDELSON' A certain visionary fervor infuses these two artists. Repeating units are favored to excellent effect, whether the transparent circles of plastic joined into sparkling screens and nebulae in Ms. Mendelson's work, or the fine fields of geometric or organic patterns in Ms. Ellison's paintings and drawings. Ms. Ellison deftly summons a mesmerizing power that compares quite favorably to that of Agnes Martin, James Siena and aboriginal or tantric art; it suggests that she may be some kind of genius. Sideshow, 319 Bedford Avenue, near South Second Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 486-8180, sideshowgallery.com; closes on Sunday . (Smith)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'CLOSE ENCOUNTERS: IRVING PENN PORTRAITS OF ARTISTS AND WRITERS' Last spring, in its first foray into modern photography, the Morgan Library & Museum acquired 67 of Irving Penn's portraits of artists, writers and musicians. (Thirty-five were donated by Mr. Penn.) The entire group is temporarily on view in an exhibition that complements the library's collection of 20th-century drawings, manuscripts, books and musical scores. Organized by a guest curator, Peter Barberie, ''Close Encounters'' encompasses work from the 1940s, when Mr. Penn first started to work for Vogue, through portraits published in The New Yorker in 2006. Mr. Penn's subjects, including Marcel Duchamp, Arthur Miller and Truman Capote, emerged from their portrait sessions with their carefully shaped personas profoundly shaken. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org; closes on Sunday. (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'JAN DE COCK: DENKMAL 11, MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, 11 WEST 53 STREET, NEW YORK, 2008' The word denkmal translates from German as monument or memorial. In Dutch it is a mold for thought. Both definitions fit the work of Jan De Cock, a 31-year-old Belgian artist who appropriates and arranges photographs in what might be viewed as an open-ended yet ultimately conservative encyclopedia. Overflowing with references to modern art, experimental film, photography and architecture, the project pulls most of the museum into its orbit. It incorporates elements of De Stijl, Russian Constructivism and Kurt Schwitters's collage/studio Merzbau, among other things. It is also the starting point of a yearlong project called ''American Odyssey,'' for which Mr. De Cock will travel to various and document cultural landmarks around the country. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; closes on Monday. (Rosenberg)
 JEAN ROYeRE Organized by two Parisian galleries, Patrick Seguin and Jacques Lacoste, this exhibition provides New Yorkers with a rare in-depth look at the work of Jean Royere (1902-1981). It includes 100 objects presented in plausible if free-flowing domestic arrangements designed by India Mahdavi and demonstrates the timeless appeal of this French master's fusion of Art Deco streamlining with the organic forms of the 1950s. Royere excelled at lighting design, and when it came to seating, he made round, low and even squat look great. Some of his chairs suggest a time and place when people tended to be shorter and thinner than in the here and now. Sonnabend Gallery, 536 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-1018; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 SCANDINAVIA HOUSE: 'ARS FENNICA: FINNISH ART NOW' Finland has its own version of the Turner Prize in Britain: the $50,000 Ars Fennica Prize. This sleepy show presents works by 2007's four finalists. It includes gimmicky sculptures by Markus Kahre; fairy-tale-like images painted and drawn by Elina Merenmies; Anna Tuori's brushy, mock-kitsch paintings of vaguely Asian landscapes; and, by Elina Brotherus, large, bland landscape photographs and a relaxing video triptych of people skinny dipping in peaceful, outdoor waters. 58 Park Avenue between 37th and 38th streets, (212) 879-9779, scandinaviahouse.org; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); RETAILERS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); PUBLISHING (55%); CITY LIFE (50%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (68%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (68%); LVMH (BIT) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (68%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); GUATEMALA (77%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



274 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Surprising Growth in the Trade Deficit

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The gap between what Americans import and export unexpectedly widened in February as domestic demand rose for automobiles and fell back for crude oil. 
 The trade deficit grew 5.7 percent, to $62.3 billion, its highest reading since November and the second consecutive month of increase. The estimate for January was revised up to $59 billion from $58.2 billion, the Commerce Department said on Thursday. 
 The increase came as a surprise to economists who had expected the economic downturn to suppress domestic demand for foreign goods. Instead, import sales jumped 3.1 percent, the biggest gain in almost a year, to $213.7 billion from a revised $207.3 billion in January.
 Americans bought more foreign motor vehicles, pharmaceutical products and computer equipment in February. The appetite for foreign goods even outpaced the first decline in oil imports in nearly a year. Foreign petroleum sales dipped 1.6 percent in February, though the figure will probably climb back for March, when the price of crude oil reached a record.
 Thursday's report may not bode well for the economy as a whole. With consumer spending on the home front falling, many economists -- including those at the Federal Reserve -- have said that demand from foreign customers has propped up the ailing American economy, keeping many businesses afloat even as the housing slump and a weakening job market damp domestic demand.
 If imports outpace exports, that means more money may be moving out of American businesses than coming in. But economists said the deficit would probably narrow in coming months.
 ''We expect a reversal of the numbers soon, as households continue grappling with falling home prices, plunging payrolls and financial market turmoil,'' wrote Dimitry Fleming, an economist at ING Bank, in a note to clients.
 Sales of exports increased 2 percent, to $151.4 billion, from $148.4 billion in February. Foreign demand for motor vehicles, food and beverages and heavy machinery all increased.
 But there were signs of weakness: sales of semiconductors, communications equipment and consumer goods all declined.
 A separate report on Thursday showed that new claims for unemployment benefits fell last week. The number of American workers filing for benefits dropped 53,000, to 357,000, after adjusting for seasonal factors, the Labor Department said. 
 But the four-week average rose to 378,250, the highest level since October 2005, reinforcing fears that the American labor market has weakened significantly. New claims for unemployment surged to 410,000 for the week ended March 29, and economists interpreted that as a signal of a recession.
 Employers shed 80,000 jobs last month, according to the government, the third consecutive monthly decline. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martha Ovalle, unemployed since January, discussed job leads at a state career center in Harlem last week. The government on Thursday said new unemployment claims fell last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHS: BALANCE OF TRADE: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) Graphs showing the deficit as the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); ELECTRONICS (75%); HOME PRICES (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); LAYOFFS (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (53%); INGA (AMS) (53%); ING (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



275 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MUSEUM REVIEW; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1659 words

HEADLINE: This Just In: A Museum of Journalism Chasing the News: Mark Twain's Inkwell to Blogger's Slippers

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 Look through the glass walls of a television studio at the Newseum -- the much-heralded $450 million museum created by, for and about news acolytes, news reporters, newshounds, newsreaders, news watchers, newsmakers and news advocates that opens on Friday -- and you get an imposing view of the Capitol. But that also means that from the Capitol you also have a clear view of the glass facade of the Newseum, which is part of the point. 
 This museum is determined to be noticed. It is across the way from the National Gallery of Art and down the street from the National Archives on Pennsylvania Avenue. It also lies along the presidential inaugural path leading to the White House. And though privately built -- it was created by the Freedom Forum with substantial contributions from a wide array of news organizations -- it presents itself as if, like its neighbors, it were a public institution with National in its name. It lays claim to the public interest and then insists upon it. Its glass facade includes a 74-foot-high, 50-ton marble tablet scripturally inscribed with the complete text of the First Amendment. 
 Step inside the building, designed by Polshek Partnership Architects, and the clamor for attention only increases. The 90-foot-high atrium features a 40-foot-by-22-foot high-definition monitor that can be raised or lowered, brightened or dimmed, displaying museum happenings, broadcasting studio events or historical footage. Nearby a news helicopter hangs in midair. 
 Exhibition spaces boast pieces of the Berlin Wall, a mangled broadcast antenna from the World Trade Center's ruins, a blogger's slippers and Mark Twain's inkwell. Two of the museum's seven levels hold souvenir shops. (For sale is a nightshirt declaring, ''Not tonight, dear ... I'm on deadline.'')
 The history of the press is laid out in an extensive timeline of documents and objects, including a 1603 English broadsheet showing the coronation of James I; a 1787 copy of The Maryland Gazette containing the new United States Constitution; The Charleston Mercury's 1860 extra enthusiastically proclaiming, ''The Union Is Dissolved!''; a copy of the 1948 Chicago Daily Tribune mistakenly announcing, ''Dewey Defeats Truman,'' just below the photograph of a victorious Harry S. Truman holding the same paper. There are samplings of radio and television broadcasts and an ''interactive newsroom,'' in which those who are not camera-shy can pretend to be television reporters.
 There's also a ''4-D'' movie theater celebrating courageous journalists in which viewers wear glasses that make it seem as if bubbles containing Marilyn Monroe or the World Trade Center or other newsworthy subjects are floating toward your face. Special seats vibrate with Luftwaffe attacks during the London blitz or blow puffs of air meant to simulate rats scurrying around the lunatic asylum where Nellie Bly gathered material for her 19th-century expose in The New York World. 
 The Newseum, which used to be in a modest space in Arlington, Va., charges $20 for adult admission, has a $50 million operating budget this year and is unembarrassed about marshaling the considerable financial resources of the Freedom Forum. That organization, devoted to the ideals of a free press and free speech, is a successor to a foundation established in 1935 by the newspaper publisher Frank E. Gannett. (The Newseum has also received substantial grants from organizations, including the Knight Foundation, the Annenberg Foundation, ABC News, The New York Times Company and the Ochs-Sulzberger family, which controls the Times Company.) 
 Undeterred by fears of recession, accelerating layoffs in the print-news business and worries about the very future of newspapers (indeed, largely ignoring them) the Newseum has created a publicity-seeking monument to the news business, its history and its hyperlinked future. The museum demands attention with almost tabloid ferocity. Six years of planning! 250,000 square feet! 100,000 words of text! 81,000 pounds of artifacts! 35,000 front pages in the collection! 6,214 artifacts (not counting photos and newspapers)! 131 interactive video monitors, 99 television sets, 40 typewriters, 28 reporter notepads, 15 theaters! 
 It is as if an overstuffed newspaper Sunday supplement from the not-so-distant past had suddenly morphed into a sound-and-light display. Or as if a trade show had been mounted using the latest technology, hawking the news business and all its life-enhancing, liberty-preserving virtues. One introductory film tells visitors: War is news, peace is news; love is news, hate is news; life is news, death is news. Nothing is not news, and its chroniclers take on heroic status here. 
 But put aside for a moment the problems that accompany this posture. A good portion of the museum's earnestly sought attention is well deserved. Courtesy of the deft exhibitions created by Ralph Appelbaum Associates, the Newseum is an appealing example of how a museum can both teach and entertain with clever use of images, interactive displays and compact explanations that will repay serious reading while offering edutainment to the many schoolchildren expected to visit. The exhibition about 9/11, with its wall of front pages from around the world on Sept. 12, 2001, and its film recounting the experiences of journalists covering the event, deals with wounds so fresh, a box of tissues is made available. The 4-D show is more sensation than substance, but how often can that be said of newsprint as well?
 And for all the celebration of the news industry, care is taken not to descend too deeply into puffery. Along with the many testimonials to journalistic courage and a memorial to journalists who lost their lives on the job, there are examples of distortions that mar the profession: the frauds perpetrated by a Pulitzer Prize winner or by a trusted reporter; the distorted reporting that led The Herald-Leader in Lexington, Ky., to acknowledge in 2004 that in the 1960s it had given the ''front-page news'' of the civil rights movement ''back-page coverage''; or even Peter Arnett's 1991 broadcast on CNN that seemingly swallowed the Saddam Hussein government's account of the United States having bombed a ''baby-milk plant.'' Only Mark Twain (who invented his share of journalistic hoaxes) had a plausible excuse: Reporting, he said, was ''awful slavery for a lazy man.'' And there's at least one sign that the Newseum knows when not to take itself too seriously: scattered tiles in the museum bathrooms are inscribed with journalistic gaffes and embarrassing corrections. 
 It is fitting too to stress the importance of the First Amendment since with it, as the museum says, the United States ''became the first country in the history of the world to acknowledge the right to press freedom in its constitution.'' The cliche is that freedom of the press is a ''cornerstone of democracy,'' as the museum puts it, but it also true. One exhibition cites Thomas Jefferson's comment in 1787 that if given a choice between ''a government without newspapers or newspapers without a government, I should not hesitate a moment to prefer the latter.''
 But the museum's preening does call for some skepticism. Despite the notion that the press represents the voice of the people, it is not intrinsically representative, nor should it be. The results of its activities may sometimes be helpful for the body politic, but they could also be harmful. The press doesn't have the responsibilities of government. It doesn't have to balance competing interests openly in deciding what to make public, nor wrestle in public with competing demands on its actions. It doesn't have to answer to anything but its reputation, its self-created mission and its bottom line. It may seek transparency, but it is almost never transparent.
 The Newseum is so intent on promoting the idea of a free press that it blurs such distinctions and succumbs to a familiar and exaggerated form of press self-regard, cloaking the press in a virtuous mantle of public service. The idea is that the press has a mission to ''do good,'' to change the world for the better. A related idea: When great good does happen, the press has played a major role. That may be why major exhibition space here is devoted to several sections of the Berlin Wall. The accompanying explanation suggests that a free press weakened that wall's foundations: ''The Soviets could not stop the flow of news into East Berlin from West German radio and television.'' But is that really what brought down the wall? Actually it was caused by persistent and often controversial pressures, by miscellaneous concessions and by strong passions whose ultimate results startled nearly everybody. 
 As for the claim of serving the public good, can any vision of the good be so taken for granted? Press crusades have led to extraordinary reforms, and it is crucial that the press be free to pursue varied visions of reform, but sometimes the most difficult task is to report accurately despite one's vision of the good or one's desire to change the world. 
 These issues are not really explored by the Newseum. But to see the daily struggle with accuracy and understanding, to watch moral visions being challenged and reshaped in different ways, take a look at one of the most intriguing galleries at the Newseum, reproduced in sidewalk displays. Every day about 80 front pages from newspapers around the world and from the 50 states are mounted. (They are also posted online at newseum.org/todaysfrontpages/.) Here the press can be seen for what it is: an often noble, always necessary and inevitably fallible enterprise. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 THE ARTS
 A museum review on Friday about the Newseum, in Washington, misstated a word in a famous headline on display. The headline, from The Chicago Daily Tribune in 1948, said, ''Dewey Defeats Truman,'' not ''Dewey Beats Truman.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Newseum, dedicated to the story of journalism, opens its new home Friday. The museum, above, includes displays of the Berlin Wall, below, and aWorld Trade Center antenna, bottom. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E29)
 Bathroom humor: Tiles are inscribed with gaffes and corrections. The Newseum includes a memorial to journalists who died on the job. And that's the way it is: Visitors to the Newseum can try their hands at being television reporters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E38) MAP Map showing the location of the new museum in Washington. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); HISTORY (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); WRITERS (77%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); FILM (75%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (70%); BRITISH MONARCHS (66%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (64%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (63%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEWSEUM INC (94%); NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (57%) MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



276 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Britain Cuts a Key Rate, but European Bank Holds Fast

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
Citing a worsening outlook in Britain, the Bank of England on Thursday cut its benchmark interest rate for the second time since financial turbulence began in August.
 At the same time, the European Central Bank left its main rate unchanged, convinced that the credit turmoil is not currently hurting the economy of the euro zone. 
 The European bank on Thursday said that the economy of the 15-nation euro zone remained resilient despite eight months of financial volatility that has rippled through the United States and now appears to be creeping into Britain.
 Like many countries, Britain experienced a housing boom in the last decade and depends heavily on the health of the financial services industry. With both housing and finance reeling, banks appear to be restricting credit to the rest of the economy for things like home purchases and plant equipment, the Bank of England said.
 ''Credit conditions have tightened, and the availability of credit appears to be worsening,'' it said in a statement. 
 The Bank of England cut its main rate by a quarter percentage point, to 5 percent. The European bank kept borrowing costs at 4 percent, and gave no sign it was preparing to ease.
 The euro, which has ridden steadily higher on the back of the central bank's determination to keep interest rates steady, rose to a record of $1.5912 late in the morning in Europe before falling back. Higher rates increase the allure of euro-denominated assets.
 A sharp pullback in lending to companies outside housing and banking has emerged as one of the most serious consequences of eight months of financial turmoil, which has shocked lenders into hoarding cash. In the United States, this development is well under way -- and the Federal Reserve is searching for ways to reverse the trend -- but the rest of the world has not felt the tightening to the same degree.
 The president of the central bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, said Thursday that by all measures, credit to companies in the euro zone appears healthy. Mr. Trichet said that companies might be drawing on existing credit lines or they might be relying on bank lending because bond markets have turned so chaotic. Whatever the reason, he signaled that talk of serious credit tightness in Europe is so far just that.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); TRENDS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BONDS (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); BANK OF ENGLAND (90%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



277 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Senate Approves Housing Relief Bill

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate on Thursday moved to stabilize the battered housing market by approving a bill to provide tax breaks for home builders and other businesses, a $7,000 tax credit for buyers of foreclosed homes, $150 million for counseling borrowers and $4 billion for local governments to buy foreclosed properties. 
 The White House has expressed strong opposition to the bill, and Congressional Democrats say it does not provide enough direct assistance to Americans at risk of losing their homes. But lawmakers in both parties and the Bush administration expect some elements of the Senate bill to survive as part of a larger deal on housing legislation. 
 The Senate approved the bill by a vote of 84 to 12, with 35 Republicans joining the Democrats in favor -- an overwhelming show of bipartisan consensus given the White House opposition to the measure. The three presidential candidates, who were campaigning, did not vote; neither did Senator Elizabeth Dole, Republican of North Carolina, whose brother died this week. 
 Senate Democrats said they were counting on improvements being made in the House, where Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, is leading an effort to help as many as 1.5 million homeowners at risk of foreclosure by having the Federal Housing Administration insure up to $300 billion in refinanced mortgages.
 The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, called the vote ''just the beginning of a process'' that he said ''will continue in the House of Representatives.'' He added, ''I hope that when the process is complete, we will have a strengthened bipartisan bill that will do even more to help families, communities and our economy.'' 
 Hoping to head off more aggressive legislation by Democrats, the Bush administration on Wednesday announced its own plan to help homeowners replace expensive adjustable-rate mortgages with more affordable 30-year loans insured by the government. Officials said the plan would help as many as 100,000 homeowners this year.
 And in a sign of the growing consensus that more government action is needed, Senator John McCain, the Republican presidential candidate, announced his own plan on Thursday at a speech in Brooklyn. Mr. McCain said his plan would similarly help up to 400,000 homeowners refinance into more stable government-backed loans.
 The Democratic presidential candidates, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois, both issued statements saying the Senate bill did not go far enough. 
 In the House, Mr. Frank has said his plan would help as many as 1.5 million homeowners. The Bush administration disputes that figure, and says that aiding that many borrowers would require loosening underwriting standards to a point where taxpayers would be at serious risk of having to cover the cost of what could be a large number of defaulted loans. 
 Some of the numbers given for the Bush administration's plan are also being questioned. Officials say that a loan refinancing program, created by the president in August, called FHA Secure, has helped 140,000 owners refinance so far, and is on track to help 400,000 by year-end. With the new plan to loosen eligibility rules, another 100,000 will refinance, they say. 
 But some Democrats and advocacy groups say those numbers are exaggerated and only a small fraction of those being helped by the Bush administration were really in danger of foreclosure. 
 Despite the dispute over the numbers and the disagreement over whether additional assistance would be better handled through legislation or administrative changes to the existing FHA Secure program, some lawmakers predicted that Congress and the White House were on track toward a wider deal on help for homeowners. 
 ''You are finding these things coming to a common ground,'' said Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the Banking Committee, who conceded that the Senate bill, which he wrote, fell far short of his goals. 
 The Senate bill, although unlikely to be enacted in its current form, would cost about $15 billion over 10 years. 
 The bill would provide $17.6 billion in tax breaks for struggling businesses, including home builders, in 2008 and 2009. The bill would also create a temporary property tax deduction for tax filers who currently do not itemize their deductions. That would cost $1.5 billion through 2009. 
 In the House, the Ways and Means Committee has advanced a rival bill that does not include the tax break for struggling business owners or the credit for purchases of foreclosed homes. 
 One provision in the Senate bill that also has support in the House and the White House would provide $10.9 billion in tax- exempt bonds for local housing agencies to refinance subprime loans.
 Many Republicans said the Senate bill represented a positive step. ''While this measure is a good start in stabilizing the current crisis, there is more to be done for the long term,'' Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, said in a statement. 
 But some opponents denounced the bill. ''This bill needlessly spends billions of dollars to bail out lenders, makes our tax code even more complex and will do little to nothing to stimulate our economy,'' Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, said. ''In fact, this bill could have the perverse effect of increasing the number of foreclosures and reduce home values for American families nationwide.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Christopher J. Dodd, left, and Richard C. Shelby are important backers of the bipartisan effort in Congress to help ease the financing crisis plaguing the housing industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); APPROVALS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (70%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ELIZABETH DOLE (58%); HARRY REID (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BARNEY FRANK (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



278 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 421 words

 BODY:
 AIR TRAVEL'S HEADACHES American Airlines, a unit of AMR, has canceled more than 3,000 flights through Friday because of maintenance inspections. Disrupted passengers trying to find new flights are learning the grim realities of air travel these days. 
 Five Southwest Airlines planes grounded last month because they had not been properly inspected had the kind of cracks that the inspections were intended to detect. [A20.] 
 DEMOCRATIC DIVIDE ON TRADE The unity exhibited by House Democrats in stalling a White House-sponsored trade pact with Colombia masks deep party divisions on the issue. [C1.] 
 'WHY PAY MORE?' As consumer spending slows, there is a noticeable increase in pitches that focus on products' value. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C1.] 
 KATIE COURIC'S FUTURE Rumors coming out of CBS News may have accelerated discussions within the network about a departure for Katie Couric from her evening anchor job. [C1.] 
 A judge denied a request by CBS to dismiss a lawsuit filed by Dan Rather, who contends the network violated his contract by giving him little to do after it forced him off the evening news. [C4.] 
 WINNING INVESTOR'S DARK VIEW George Soros, at age 77 one the world's most successful investors, says world markets are facing the ''biggest financial crisis of my lifetime.'' [C1.] 
 MORE DISCLOSURE BY BANKS 
 A global team of financial regulators and ministers is calling for greater disclosure by the world's banks and investment institutions. [C6.] 
 SENATE HOUSING LEGISLATION The Senate approved a bill to provide tax breaks for home builders, a $7,000 tax credit for buyers of foreclosed homes and $4 billion for local governments to buy foreclosed properties. The White House opposes the bill. [C3.] 
 A TAKEOVER OF BIOTECH FIRM 
 Japan's largest drug company, Takeda Pharmaceutical, agreed to pay $8.8 billion in cash for Millennium Pharmaceuticals, one of the earliest American genomics companies. [C3.] 
 TRADE GAP WIDENS The gap between what Americans import and export unexpectedly widened in February as domestic demand rose for automobiles and fell back for crude oil. [C5.] 
 BRITISH ARMS DEAL INQUIRY The High Court in Britain ruled that officials investigating accusations of corruption in an arms deal with Saudi Arabia acted unlawfully when they dropped the inquiry. [C5.] 
 BANK OF ENGLAND LOWERS RATE The Bank of England cut its benchmark interest rate for the second time since August. The European Central Bank left its main rate unchanged. [C3.] 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INSPECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); FORECLOSURE (86%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LITIGATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); TAKEOVERS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); APPROVALS (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); TAX LAW (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); JUDGES (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (64%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (64%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (63%); CORRUPTION (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); MILLENNIUM PHARMACEUTICALS INC (53%); TAKEDA PHARMACEUTICAL CO LTD (53%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%); 4502 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (68%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



279 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: Global Forum Calls for New Financial Controls

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A global team of financial regulators and ministers is calling for greater disclosure, more oversight and improved risk management by the world's banks and investment institutions caught up in a global credit crisis, United States Treasury officials said Thursday.
 The officials said that the plea for more disclosure -- particularly of off-balance sheet holdings -- and for more safety measures, such as requiring institutions to hold more capital and maintain larger cash reserves, is to be issued by the Financial Stability Forum, a body representing regulators and ministers from around the world. 
 The forum recommends that investors be more careful about relying on credit-rating agencies in their investment decisions and in trading securities and derivatives. The group also calls for greater disclosure by the ratings agencies themselves.
 Ratings agencies have been criticized for giving high ratings to complex mortgage-related securities without understanding fully the nature of the loans that were bundled together and that have since plummeted in value in the current crisis.
 Still another recommendation of the forum is for supervisors and central banks to exchange more information, but not necessarily to adopt stricter regulation of the financial system by central banks and other regulators in the United States, Europe and elsewhere.
 Starting a year ago, well before the current credit crisis, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. had said that the financial stability forum's work was needed to help guide governments through the new world of complex securities and such new but largely unregulated players in the markets as hedge funds and private equity funds.
 The report, which Treasury officials say has been completed, is expected to receive the endorsement Friday of the finance ministers from the leading industrial democracies known as the Group of 7, which will be discussing the world economy. 
 With its cautious approach to greater regulation by central banks or other authorities, the forum's report mirrors a similar set of recommendations issued last week by a group within the Bush administration and led by Mr. Paulson. 
 That group also called for an overhaul of the hodgepodge of federal regulatory agencies that oversee various categories of financial institutions. But Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified in Congress last week that he was concerned about having more authority but fewer tools to carry it out.
 Every spring the United States Treasury secretary plays host to most of the world's finance ministers as they meet in Washington to assess the global economy. A year ago, their discussions were clouded by the furor over the leadership of Paul D. Wolfowitz, then president of the World Bank.
 It was then that leading finance ministers informed Mr. Paulson that Mr. Wolfowitz no longer had their confidence, and Mr. Wolfowitz was ousted a few months later.
 This year, the main topic of conversation is certain to be the global economy, and administration officials acknowledge that there will be tough questions for the treasury secretary about the Bush administration's steps to avoid a recession or pull out of one if it has already started.
 With ministers and bankers starting to arrive in Washington, a mildly discordant note occurred when the International Monetary Fund, which along with the World Bank is holding the meetings, issued a dire warning about the global economy and the damaging effect of the American subprime mortgage crisis.
 Jaime Caruana, head of the fund's monetary and capital markets department, said this week that ''financial markets remain under considerable stress'' because of weak financial institutions, falling home prices and weak growth worldwide.
 The United States, the I.M.F. said, was a main cause of the slower world economic growth, which it said would grow at 3.7 percent in 2008 compared with 5 percent last year. A major factor in the downturn was what Simon Johnson, the chief economist of the fund, said was a ''mild recession'' this year and a weak recovery next year.
 That assessment clashed with a somewhat more upbeat view from the Bush administration, which has avoided the word ''recession'' to describe the current troubles. Mr. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, also said last week that although a recession was possible, he was not prepared to say that one had begun or would occur this year.
 Challenging the I.M.F. view, the Treasury's top international economic official, David H. McCormick, said it was ''unduly pessimistic.'' He acknowledged that ''ongoing weakness of U.S. residential housing markets,'' chaotic markets, inflation and high oil and commodity prices were posing a threat.
 ''That said, we remain positive about the long-term resilience of the global economy, as well as the long-term resilience of the U.S. economy,'' said Mr. McCormick, who is under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs.
 Like the World Bank, which is now led by Robert B. Zoellick, the International Monetary Fund has a new president, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, a former finance minister of France. He has brought about changes at the fund, which has 185 countries as members, including allowing a greater voice for China and other emerging market countries.
 Mr. Strauss-Kahn said in a news conference on Thursday that the current financial turmoil posed the greatest financial crisis since the 1930s, but that ''it is a new kind of crisis'' and that the I.M.F. could play a role in improving the economy by doing more to monitor the vulnerabilities of its member countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (78%); BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



280 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1637 words

HEADLINE: From Welfare Shift in '96, '08 Reminder for Clinton

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
In the summer of 1996, President Bill Clinton delivered on his pledge to ''end welfare as we know it.'' Despite howls of protest from some liberals, he signed into law a bill forcing recipients to work and imposing a five-year limit on cash assistance.
 As first lady, Hillary Rodham Clinton supported her husband's decision, drawing the wrath of old friends from her days as an advocate for poor children. Some accused the Clintons of throwing vulnerable families to the winds in pursuit of centrist votes as Mr. Clinton headed into the final stages of his re-election campaign.
 Despite the criticism and anxiety from the left, the legislation came to be viewed as one of Mr. Clinton's signature achievements. It won broad bipartisan praise, with some Democrats relieved that it took a politically difficult issue off the table for them, and many liberals came to accept if not embrace it. 
 Mrs. Clinton's opponent in the race for the Democratic presidential nomination, Senator Barack Obama, said in an interview that the welfare overhaul had been greatly beneficial in eliminating a divisive force in American politics.
 Mrs. Clinton, now a senator from New York, rarely mentions the issue as she battles for the nomination, despite the emphasis she has placed on her experience in her husband's White House. 
 But now the issue is back, pulled to the fore by an economy turning down more sharply than at any other time since the welfare changes were imposed. With low-income people especially threatened by a weakening labor market, some advocates for poor families are raising concerns about the adequacy of the remaining social safety net. Mrs. Clinton is now calling for the establishment of a cabinet-level position to fight poverty. 
 As social welfare policy returns to the political debate, it is providing a window into the ways in which Mrs. Clinton has navigated the legacy of her husband's administration and the ideological crosscurrents of her party.
 In an interview, Mrs. Clinton acknowledged that ''people who are more vulnerable'' were going to suffer more than others as the economy turned down. But she put the blame squarely on the Bush administration and the Republicans who controlled Congress until last year. Mrs. Clinton said they blocked her efforts, and those of other Democrats, to buttress the safety net with increased financing for health insurance for impoverished children, child care for poor working mothers, and food stamps.
 Mrs. Clinton expressed no misgivings about the 1996 legislation, saying that it was a needed -- and enormously successful -- first step toward making poor families self-sufficient.
 ''Welfare should have been a temporary way station for people who needed immediate assistance,'' she said. ''It should not be considered an anti-poverty program. It simply did not work.''
 During the presidential campaign, she has faced little challenge on the issue, in large part because Mr. Obama has supported the 1996 law. ''Before welfare reform, you had, in the minds of most Americans, a stark separation between the deserving working poor and the undeserving welfare poor,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview. ''What welfare reform did was desegregate those two groups. Now, everybody was poor, and everybody had to work.''
 Mr. Obama called the resulting law ''an imperfect reform.'' Like Mrs. Clinton, he called for an expansion of government-provided health care, child care and job training to assist women making the transition from welfare to work -- programs he says he helped expand in Illinois as a state senator.
 Asked if he would have vetoed the 1996 law, Mr. Obama said, ''I won't second guess President Clinton for signing.''
 Among some advocates for the poor, the growing prospect of a severe recession and evidence of backsliding from the initial successes of the policy shift have crystallized fresh concern. Many remain upset that Mrs. Clinton, once seemingly a stalwart member of their camp, supported a law that they contend left many people at risk. 
 ''If there is no national controversy about welfare reform, we paid an awfully high price,'' said Peter Edelman, a law professor at Georgetown University who has known Mrs. Clinton since her college days, and who quit his post as assistant secretary of social services at the Department of Health and Human Services in protest after Mr. Clinton signed the measure.
 ''They don't acknowledge the number of people who were hurt,'' Mr. Edelman said. ''It's just not in their lens. It was predictably bad public policy.''
 Forcing families to rely on work instead of government money went well from 1996 to 2000, when the economy was booming and paychecks were plentiful, economists say. Since then, however, job creation has slowed and poverty has risen. The current downturn could be the first serious test of how well the changes brought about by the 1996 law hold up under sharp economic stress. 
 ''We should have enormous concern about the lack of a fully functioning safety net for families with children,'' said Mark H. Greenberg, director of the Poverty and Prosperity Program at the Center for American Progress, a liberal research group.
 In many ways, Mrs. Clinton has sought to moderate her liberal image since leaving the White House. But on welfare, she has faced the opposite problem: accusations from some liberals that she sold out their principles for a politically calculated centrism. 
 On the campaign trail, Mrs. Clinton is largely focused on the middle class. Since the departure from the Democratic race of John Edwards, who had made poverty a centerpiece of his campaign, there has been little debate about social welfare policy. But in promising on Friday to establish a cabinet-rank poverty-fighting position if she is elected, Mrs. Clinton reintroduced the topic and the question of her record.
 In the interview, conducted last month, Mrs. Clinton said she had followed through on her promise to address what she viewed as shortcomings in the welfare law after being elected to the Senate in 2000. She said she had pressed for legislation that would have increased financing for child care for poor mothers by up to $11 billion, seeking to expand food stamps, and allowing welfare recipients to draw cash aid while attending school.
 Those provisions were blocked by the Republican leadership.
 ''We've had to mostly spend our time since President Bush came in to office preventing bad things from happening,'' Mrs. Clinton said. 
 Many welfare advocates dispute Mrs. Clinton's characterization. Since entering the Senate, they say, she has shown a predilection for compromise at the expense of the poor.
 When the overhaul bill came up for reauthorization, Sandra Chapin, a former welfare recipient affiliated with a coalition called Welfare Made a Difference, lobbied Congress to allow more women to attend college while they received aid. Mrs. Clinton ''wouldn't have anything to do with it,'' Ms. Chapin said. 
 Ms. Chapin, now program director of the Consumer Federation of California, posted an e-mail message to a discussion board in February accusing Mrs. Clinton of having ''had a hand in devaluing motherwork in this country, and no doubt sending thousands of children and their families deeper into poverty.''
 In the interview, and in her memoir, Mrs. Clinton said she had serious misgivings about some of the changes proposed to the welfare system as the issue percolated through Washington in the mid-1990s. 
 Her husband had taken office with a pledge to dismantle the old system. He embraced time limits for cash aid and allowing states to largely decide for themselves how to spend the money. He set out to expand job training, access to health care, child care and food stamps.
 When the Republicans took over Congress after the 1994 elections, making Newt Gingrich the House speaker, they seized the initiative. Twice, they passed bills seeking to impose time limits on welfare benefits while cutting other aid. Twice, Mr. Clinton vetoed the bills, with the encouragement of Mrs. Clinton.
 In August 1996, three months before Election Day, Congress sent the White House a third bill. This one imposed time limits on cash benefits and barred most legal immigrants from receiving welfare. But it maintained guarantees for Medicaid and food stamps and increased financing for child care. This time, Mr. Clinton signed.
 ''I agreed that he should sign it and worked hard to round up votes,'' Mrs. Clinton wrote in her memoir.
 Mrs. Clinton remained troubled by parts of the bill, she wrote in her memoir, particularly the provision barring welfare for legal immigrants. But ''pragmatic politics'' had to be considered. ''If he vetoed welfare reform a third time,'' she wrote, ''Bill would be handing the Republicans a potential political windfall.''
 Marian Wright Edelman, the founder of Children's Defense Fund, an activist group that had given Mrs. Clinton her first job, blasted the Clintons as betraying the poor, opening a rift that Mrs. Clinton called ''sad and painful.'' Mrs. Edelman's husband, Peter, quit his administration post.
 In the years that followed, the number of those on welfare rolls plummeted by more than 60 percent. A study last year by the Congressional Budget Office found that from 1991 to 2005, poor families with children saw their inflation-adjusted incomes climb by 35 percent, as employment climbed.
 In recent years, however, low-skilled women have struggled. The percentage of poor single mothers neither working nor drawing cash assistance surged from under 20 percent before the welfare overhaul to more than 30 percent in 2005, according to the Congressional Research Service. During the same period, the number of children in poverty rose to 12.8 million from 11.6 million, according to census data. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Bill Clinton signed legislation in 1996 overhauling the welfare system. That weakened the friendship of Hillary Rodham Clinton and Marian Wright Edelman, shown in 1999.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL HOSEFROS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD ROSENBERG)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



281 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: Bush Signals No Further Reduction of Troops in Iraq

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS and THOM SHANKER; Julie Bosman contributed reporting from Pittsburgh.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush said Thursday that the senior United States commander in Iraq could ''have all the time he needs'' before reducing American forces there any further, but he promised shorter tours for troops and longer breaks for them at home. 
 Democrats responded by saying that no end was in sight to the American troop commitment.
 Mr. Bush defended the costs of the war, in lives and money, declaring that his decision to order more troops to Iraq last year had averted potential defeat there and that withdrawing would be catastrophic to American interests. Speaking at the White House to a small audience that included Vice President Dick Cheney, the secretaries of State and Defense and representatives of veterans' organizations, he signaled that an American force nearly as large as at any other point in the last five years would remain in Iraq through his presidency. He left any significant changes in policy to the next president.
 ''Fifteen months ago, Americans were worried about the prospect of failure in Iraq,'' he said, sounding a triumphant note about his decision last year to send 30,000 additional troops. ''Today, thanks to the surge, we've renewed and revived the prospect of success.'' 
 As was the case during two days of Congressional testimony this week by the American commander, Gen. David H. Petraeus, the Democratic presidential candidates offered assessments that diverged sharply from Mr. Bush's. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York said the president ''refuses to face the reality that we are confronted by in Iraq.''
 ''It's time for the president to answer the question being asked of him,'' she said while campaigning in Pittsburgh. ''In the wake of the failed objectives that were laid out to be met by the surge, what is the exit strategy in Iraq?''
 Senator Barack Obama of Illinois echoed her comments. ''We have a blank check strategy in Iraq that is overstretching our military, distracting us from the other challenges we face, burdening our economy and failing to pressure the Iraqi government to take responsibility for their future,'' he said in a statement.
 With only nine months left in his presidency, Mr. Bush has begun making the case for a war that will continue, one way or another, under another commander in chief. He flatly restated his views on the war that will most define his legacy, and set the terms of the debate over Iraq for the coming presidential election. 
 ''Iraq is the convergence point for two of the greatest threats to America in this new century: Al Qaeda and Iran,'' Mr. Bush said.
 ''If we fail there, Al Qaeda would claim a propaganda victory of colossal proportions, and they could gain safe havens in Iraq from which to attack the United States, our friends and our allies,'' he said. ''Iran would work to fill the vacuum in Iraq, and our failure would embolden its radical leaders and fuel their ambitions to dominate the region.''
 Mr. Bush's focus on Iran, while not new, reflected deepening concerns in the administration and the Pentagon about suspected Iranian support for some extremists. They say that support became increasingly evident late last month during the indecisive Iraqi operation to wrest control of Basra from Shiite militias and more recently in a spate of rocket attacks on the Green Zone in Baghdad. 
 Iran and Al Qaeda represent different threats, though they share a common purpose: weakening the United States. Iran has supported Shiite groups -- and Iraq's government itself -- to expand its influence in the region, using overt and covert means. Al Qaeda, by contrast, is a Sunni group that has no base in Iraq but that has embraced an indigenous Sunni insurgent group. In effect, in Mr. Bush's view, the American effort in Iraq faces attacks from both sides.
 Mr. Bush declared that the Iranian government had a choice: to live peacefully with Iraq or to continue arming, financing and training what he called ''illegal militant groups.''
 ''If Iran makes the right choice, America will encourage a peaceful relationship between Iran and Iraq,'' he said. ''Iran makes the wrong choice, America will act to protect our interests and our troops and our Iraqi partners.''
 Mr. Bush sought to reassure lawmakers in both parties that Iraq was increasingly paying for reconstruction and security with its own revenues, flush now because of the high price of oil.
 As expected, he announced that American troops headed to Iraq after Aug. 1 would deploy for 12 months, instead of 15. He imposed the hugely unpopular extension last year as part of the buildup in Iraq.
 He also said that troops would remain at home at least a year for each year spent in the field, a requirement that many lawmakers had wanted to codify in legislation but failed to accomplish in the face of opposition by Mr. Bush and Republicans.
 ''I think it should not be lost on anyone that this suggestion the president is making now is long overdue and something the Republicans in Congress and the president of the United States have rejected over and over again,'' the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, said on Capitol Hill.
 The shortened deployments were a major recommendation of the armed services and of Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, who worried about the strain on military readiness related to the war in Iraq.
 At the same time, though, Mr. Bush endorsed General Petraeus's recommendation to suspend any more withdrawals for at least 45 days after the departure in July of the last of the additional units ordered into Iraq last year.
 At that point the United States will have just under 140,000 troops in Iraq, slightly more than were in early 2007, when sectarian violence verged on all-out civil war.
 Mr. Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told a Senate panel on Thursday that they expected the level of American forces in Iraq to drop further this year if conditions on the ground improved.
 ''I do not anticipate this period of review to be an extended one, and I would emphasize that the hope, depending on conditions on the ground, is to reduce our presence further this fall,'' Mr. Gates said.
 But he acknowledged that he had abandoned a hope that American troop levels could drop to 100,000 by the end of the year.
 Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said he heard a clear contradiction in the comments by Mr. Gates and Admiral Mullen -- who expressed desires for a brief pause followed by further troop reductions. He contrasted that with the projections by Mr. Bush and General Petraeus, who in testimony before Congress this week spoke about no specific timetable for ending the pause.
 Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary, responded, saying, ''We would encourage members not to get caught up in semantic differences between those who have testified before them because, substantively, all of the president's top military leaders and advisers are in the same place when it comes to the way ahead in Iraq.''
 But that was not sufficient explanation for Mr. Levin.
 ''I think there clearly is a conflict here, at least in their description of what they recommend,'' Mr. Levin said after the hearing. ''This is not parsing words. These are words that are very, very different, and clearly in conflict with each other.''
 Admiral Mullen said the Joint Chiefs supported General Petraeus's proposals to Mr. Bush.
 ''It's not a blank check,'' Admiral Mullen said. ''It's not an open-ended commitment of troops. It's merely recognition of the fact that war is unpredictable.''
 In his testimony this week, General Petraeus said he needed time to assess security in Iraq once the added brigades left; he declined, despite persistent questioning, to commit to any additional withdrawals at the end of that review period. He said any reductions would be based on conditions that he did not clearly define.
 Nor did Mr. Bush in his statement. That left him vulnerable to Democratic attacks about how the United States would end its involvement in Iraq.
 ''General Petraeus says he'll need time to consolidate his forces and assess how this reduced American presence will affect conditions on the ground before making measured recommendations on further reductions,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And I've told him he'll have all the time he needs.''
 With the war now in its sixth year, Mr. Bush appeared to acknowledge the criticism that no end was in sight. He said that as a democratic Iraq strengthened, Iraqi political leaders and security forces would shoulder more of the responsibility of governance and allow additional American troops to return home. He also called on neighboring Arab states to do more to support Iraq, beginning by reopening their embassies in Baghdad.
 ''And while this war is difficult,'' he said, ''it is not endless.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); VETERANS (72%); TESTIMONY (65%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (62%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DICK CHENEY (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); DAVID PETRAEUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



282 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Concert Industry Is Banking on a Festive Summer

BYLINE: By JEFF LEEDS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Rock fans across the country who can brave the heat will have ample opportunities to see acts like Jack Johnson, Radiohead, Nine Inch Nails and the Raconteurs take the stage in an array of unconventional settings as part of the concert industry's increasing wager on summer music festivals. 
 Faced with an audience that has been atomized by the dizzying music choices available online, concert promoters are straining to book diverse shows in whatever open space is available, be it a ranch in Michigan, a soccer field in Colorado or a racetrack in Maryland. 
 In a slumping music business such events pack a box office punch: the top five American festivals generated a combined $60 million in ticket sales last year, according to Billboard magazine's estimates. 
 At least four new festivals will make their debuts this summer, raising the total to more than a dozen. Various concert promoters are already warning of the dangers of oversaturation, and point to the clutch of stars headlining multiple festivals. 
 The most extreme case: Jack Johnson, the laid-back singer-songwriter who has released the top-selling album of the year so far, is booked for at least five festivals, including two on the second weekend in August: the inaugural All Points West event in Jersey City and the Virgin Mobile Festival in Baltimore.
 The risk of overlapping talent lineups means that each promoter must try to suffuse his event with a distinct flair. In Michigan, where organizers of the first Rothbury festival (July 3 to 6) have booked the Dave Matthews Band, John Mayer and Snoop Dogg, fans can attend yoga sessions or sit in on a discussion of energy independence with a Stanford professor. 
 But there is no guarantee that all the events will survive. Promoters of a planned festival in Vineland, N.J., canceled it to avoid direct competition with All Points West. Sales at some of the new events have been uneven, promoters say. The Mile High Music Festival in Denver (July 19 and 20), featuring the Dave Matthews Band and John Mayer, is regarded as a breakout hit; the outlook for All Points West, featuring Radiohead for two nights and Mr. Johnson on the third, is more uncertain, based on early ticket sales. 
 The established festivals do not appear to be suffering much. Lollapalooza, which was reimagined as a two-day festival in the lakeside Grant Park in Chicago in 2005 after sputtering as a touring attraction, is seen as an especially strong draw this year (Aug. 1 to 3), with Radiohead, Nine Inch Nails, Rage Against the Machine and Kanye West among the acts. 
 Charlie Walker, a partner in C3 Presents, Lollapalooza's promoter, said sales were roughly 15 percent ahead of last year, with three-day tickets selling for $175 to $205.
 ''It's a big marketplace,'' he said. ''We've got a little ways to go before we see any saturation.'' 
 The Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, which began in 1999 at a polo field in the desert two hours from Los Angeles, stunned fans this week by adding Prince to a lineup that had been branded as underwhelming. (The event's previously announced headliners included Roger Waters, Portishead and Mr. Johnson). Organizers of the festival, which runs from April 25 to 27 and customarily draws as many as 60,000 people a day, said before the Prince announcement that they were not concerned that it had not yet sold out. Last year's edition sold out in February, mainly because of its booking of a reunited Rage Against the Machine, an event that Coachella's promoter, Paul Tollett, called ''an anomaly.'' 
 All the festivals, however, are coping with another X factor: whether the faltering economy will dampen ticket sales. That has not stopped organizers from trying to woo well-heeled fans and corporate clients. Lollapalooza offers private cabanas, with an all-day buffet, for $25,000 and up for parties of 20 or more. Bonnaroo, held on several hundred acres of Tennessee farmland, where fans camp for the weekend (June 12 to 15), is marketing V.I.P. passes, which include access to a private prefestival party and special restroom and shower facilities, for $1,169.50 per pair. (Scheduled bands include Pearl Jam and Metallica.) 
 In general, rock festivals have built their reputations by offering fans the chance to pack months of club crawling into one weekend and discover new favorites. But some talent managers caution against the idea that emerging acts can build their names through playing the full complement of festivals, where artist sets are sometimes abbreviated, and fans can be distracted. 
 Mike Martinovich, who manages the rock group My Morning Jacket, said the band had agreed to play the two most established festivals, Coachella and Bonnaroo, and turned down other offers to keep from seeming like too much of a commodity. ''Doing a whole tour of festivals would be disastrous,'' he said.
 And some promoters worry that similar talent lineups will limit the festivals' collective appeal. Mr. Tollett said the fear was ''that it could become homogenized, and everyone have the same bill and the same sort of feel at the festival.''
 ''If every one of them is just a McFranchise,'' he added, ''there's a specialness that'll be lost.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jack Johnson, above left, will be on at least five festival bills this summer. Prince, above right, has just been added to the lineup of the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in California. Top, the 2006 edition of Lollapalooza in Chicago
that festival is seen as a strong draw this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LISA MAREE WILLIAMS/GETTY IMAGES
MARC SEROTA/REUTERS
 STEVE KAGAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); EVENT MARKETING (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); SONG WRITING (72%); SOCCER (55%); YOGA (50%)

PERSON: KANYE WEST (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (72%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (57%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



283 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: House Votes To Put Off Trade Deal Bush Sought

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The unity exhibited Thursday by House Democrats in stalling a White House-sponsored trade pact with Colombia masks deep party divisions on the issue, which is certain to become even more highly charged given coming consequential trade deals with South Korea and other countries.
 An influential bloc of Democrats continues to favor expanded trading relationships with nations willing to meet labor and environmental conditions. That puts them at odds with fellow Democrats allied with unions that blame trade deals that have helped advance globalization for the loss of millions of American industrial jobs. The fight has flared in the presidential campaign as well.
 ''There has been a split within the party, I think, that has become pretty evident,'' said Representative Joseph Crowley of New York, who has backed previous trade deals. He attributes deepening Democratic resistance to trade agreements to what he calls the ''Dobbsian effect,'' named for the CNN broadcaster and vehement trade critic Lou Dobbs.
 But Mr. Crowley and others inclined to entertain free trade pacts sided with Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, and defied President Bush in voting 224 to 195 on Thursday to put off consideration of the agreement with Colombia until the speaker decides the time is right. All but 10 Democrats backed Ms. Pelosi while 6 Republicans joined in stalling the agreement. 
 Democrats said Mr. Bush tried to ram the trade agreement through despite warnings from lawmakers that the deal was in trouble, given the deteriorating domestic economic climate, the approaching election and concern about treatment of workers and labor organizers by the Colombian government. They said Congress had to make sure that voters saw lawmakers as working on their behalf before opening the door to more trade with other countries.
 ''If we are going to be successful in passing a trade agreement,'' Ms. Pelosi said, ''we have to first tell the American people that we have a positive economic agenda.''
 But Republicans said Democrats were only hurting American workers, arguing that the agreement would level the playing field by eliminating duties on American-made goods entering Colombia, which already has significant duty-free access to the United States.
 ''Even postponing Congressional consideration of this agreement does tremendous damage to America's competitiveness,'' said Representative Jim McCrery of Louisiana, the senior Republican on the Ways and Means Committee.
 ''Colombia will buy tractors, mining equipment and fertilizer from Canada, France and Germany instead of Illinois, Georgia and Texas,'' Mr. McCrery said.
 President Bush and others also argued that the decision could undermine President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia, an ally who has been taking a harder line on narcotics traffickers and challenging the Venezuelan president, Hugo Chavez, a foe of the United States who has been trying to expand his reach in the region.
 House Republicans referred sarcastically to the Democratic plan to remove a 90-day deadline for considering the agreement as the ''Hugo Chavez rule.''
 Mr. Bush, in a statement, denounced the House move. ''Today's unprecedented and unfortunate action by the House of Representatives led by Speaker Pelosi to change the rules governing legislation to implement our trade agreement with Colombia is damaging to our economy, our national security, and our relations with an important ally,'' he said. ''It also undermines the trust required for any administration to negotiate trade agreements in the future.''
 Republicans said the reverberations for other emerging agreements are at least as significant as the impact on Colombia relations. Administration officials fear the House action on Colombia could significantly diminish any remaining hope of reaching agreement on a worldwide trade pact still under negotiation in the World Trade Organization. 
 And they said it would be even harder to settle pending deals with Panama and South Korea. South Korea's president, Lee Myung-bak, is scheduled to meet with Mr. Bush next week.
 Ms. Pelosi and other Democrats said their intent was not to kill the agreement. Instead, they portrayed the vote as a response to what they saw as heavy-handedness by the administration -- coupled with an effort to force President Bush to consider some domestic economic initiatives to soften opposition to the trade pact.
 Even though a majority of Democrats are opposed to further trade deals, under the right conditions, a sufficient number of them could probably be found to join with Republicans in approving the pact with Colombia. The agreement with Peru passed in that fashion last year.
 ''Globalization can be a good thing; trade can be a good thing,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, a member of the Democratic leadership and a frequent trade advocate. ''But if you don't have an agenda to make sure Americans win in that globalization, you are going to see a squeeze on the middle class, where they resist attempts to open up markets to American-made products.''
 Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, said the Democratic strategy of delaying the trade agreement to try to entice the White House to back a domestic economic package amounted to ''political blackmail.''
 ''This is a precipitous step in the wrong direction,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''We're sending a very bad message to our partners around the world -- all in the name of election-year politics. I think that it's regrettable; it's despicable.''
 Mr. Boehner and others suggested that Ms. Pelosi was trying to spare Democrats from a tough vote before the November election, one that could alienate labor, displaced workers and companies pursuing export markets. 
 ''It is a very tough, if not impossible, vote for most Democrats,'' said Representative Eliot L. Engel, the New York Democrat who heads a House subcommittee on Western Hemisphere issues. He said he urged the administration to delay forwarding the trade deal to Congress until the political and economic environment improved.
 The trade issue has also resonated on the campaign trail, where Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois have both sought to appeal to anxious voters by taking a hard line against trade deals. Mrs. Clinton's position on the North American Free Trade Agreement, passed during her husband's administration, has been closely scrutinized. A senior adviser to Mrs. Clinton was forced to step aside earlier this week after disclosures that he had met with Colombian officials on the trade agreement.
 Ms. Pelosi did not say when she might consider allowing a vote. And while many expect it to be postponed until after the election, allies say she has not ruled out bringing it up before then.
 One Democrat noted that the Thursday vote creates a situation in which the party could come under increased fire from organized labor if it moves ahead later this year. It would then be a Democratic decision to proceed rather than one forced upon them by the White House.
 ''We own it now,'' said the Democrat, who did not want to be named because he was raising concerns about the speaker's decision.
 But Mr. Engel said he believed that Ms. Pelosi kept the trade deal alive because a vote now probably would have ended in defeat. ''What she did may down the line ultimately help pass the bill,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Joseph Crowley of New York and others who have backed previous trade deals sided with Ms. Pelosi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C2)
 Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, and other Democrats said their intent was not to kill the Colombian trade agreement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); NANCY PELOSI (89%); JOSEPH CROWLEY (88%); JIM MCCRERY (58%); ALVARO URIBE (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); COLOMBIA (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CANADA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



284 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Southwest Planes Had Cracks an Inspection Might Have Found

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Five Southwest Airlines planes grounded last month because they had not been properly inspected had precisely the kind of cracks that the inspection order was intended to detect, an official of the agency testified Thursday to a Senate subcommittee.
 The testimony, by the associate administrator for safety of the Federal Aviation Administration, was the most explicit statement so far that the epidemic of aircraft groundings had genuine safety roots.
 But the agency's troubles seemed to deepen as the subcommittee chairman, Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia, compared the F.A.A.'s handling of its lapses to the Pentagon's handling of the abuse of prisoners at Abu Ghraib, and suggested that punishments should reach higher into the ranks. 
 ''Nobody at the top ever gets fired,'' said Mr. Rockefeller, chairman of the Senate Commerce aviation subcommittee, while questioning Nicholas A. Sabatini, the F.A.A. associate administrator. 
 Mr. Sabatini blamed subordinates for the problem, though he acknowledged his responsibility. Senator Rockefeller, suggesting that heads should roll, remarked, ''You're responsible, but you don't have to be accountable?''
 The F.A.A.'s recent decision to audit the airlines for compliance with its rules, resulting in an unprecedented wave of aircraft groundings, has been driven largely by revelations from a House committee, but the Senate was hardly friendlier. Mr. Rockefeller told a panel of witnesses, ''It's catastrophic economically, and it's an embarrassment to the nation. ''
 Mr. Sabatini stressed that statistically, the recent past has been the safest period in aviation history. 
 ''We didn't get here by accident,'' he said, with no evident recognition of the double entendre. He attributed safety gains to extensive use of operating data by his agency and the airlines to isolate areas of risk and focus on them.
 In recent audits to determine if the airlines were complying with F.A.A. orders, ''we found we had achieved 99 percent compliance, but it's the other 1 percent that keeps me up at night,'' Mr. Sabatini said.
 He used stronger language to describe what Southwest had done in flying planes that it knew had not been properly inspected. While the airline's executives testified under oath last week that there was no safety-of-flight problem, Mr. Sabatini's prepared testimony said the flights had been putting thousands of passengers at risk. 
 Some senators said, however, that in a data-driven system, under which F.A.A. inspectors mostly review records rather than look at aircraft, the agency might have lost touch with actual conditions. 
 Calvin L. Scovel III, the inspector general of the Transportation Department, of which the F.A.A. is part, said the problems at Southwest, where planes that had not been inspected were allowed to keep flying, amounted to ''fundamental breakdowns in F.A.A. oversight.'' These troubles, he said, were ''symptomatic of much deeper problems in several key areas of F.A.A.'s oversight.'' 
 In addition to the current maintenance crisis, the agency faces severe challenges in hiring employees in large numbers to replace air traffic controllers and safety inspectors; thousands have reached retirement age in the last few years or will soon. 
 The biggest safety challenge of all may be the risk of runway collision, said Steven R. Chealander, a member of the National Transportation Safety Board. Mr. Chealander said that the number of serious runway incidents this year was double the level of early last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (77%)

COMPANY: SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (85%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



285 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: McCain Shifts on Aid To Some Mortgage Holders

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Julie Bosman, Jeff Zeleny and David Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Senator John McCain, who drew criticism last month after he warned against broad government intervention to solve the deepening mortgage crisis, pivoted Thursday and called for the federal government to aid some homeowners in danger of losing their homes, by helping them to refinance and get federally guaranteed 30-year mortgages. 
 ''There is nothing more important than keeping alive the American dream to own your home, and priority No. 1 is to keep well-meaning, deserving homeowners who are facing foreclosure in their homes,'' Mr. McCain said in a speech on economic themes that he gave at a window company in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn. 
 Mr. McCain, an Arizona Republican, had been painted as uncaring by Democrats, and drew murmurs of concern from some Republicans, after a speech in California last month in which he cautioned that ''it is not the duty of government to bail out and reward those who act irresponsibly, whether they are big banks or small borrowers,'' and noted that the crisis had been brought on by both lenders and borrowers.
 Since then, he has gone out of his way to try to signal that he understands that times are tough and that people are hurting. His speech in Brooklyn -- which is to be followed by what aides are billing as a major economic address next week -- was a shift in tone, and part of a new effort to communicate that as president he would act to help Americans in financial distress.
 ''Let me make it clear,'' Mr. McCain said, ''that in these challenging times, I am committed to using all the resources of this government and great nation to create opportunity and make sure that every deserving American has a good job and can achieve their American dream.''
 The mortgage plan that Mr. McCain unveiled -- which his advisers said was designed for needy homeowners, and not financial institutions -- would apply to people who were falling behind on payments on their primary residences who could show that they would be able to meet the terms of a new, 30-year fixed-rate mortgage. Mr. McCain also called for the Department of Justice to investigate the industry.
 In his remarks, Mr. McCain did not mention how much his plan would cost, but his aides said it would help 200,000 to 400,000 homeowners. That would help more people than President Bush's plan, but fewer than the plans put forward by Democrats. Aides said it would cost $3 billion to $10 billion. 
 In both tone and substance, Mr. McCain's speech was a departure from the remarks he made last month in California.
 The Democratic presidential candidates used that address to try to paint Mr. McCain as out of touch and uncaring; Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, who has proposed $30 billion in federal aid to states to help homeowners, said it sounded ''remarkably like Herbert Hoover.'' But some Republicans expressed concern as well.
 One of Mr. McCain's supporters, Senator Mel Martinez of Florida, said after the speech that he would give Mr. McCain ''an incomplete.''
 ''He stated the obvious, which is that we cannot rescue those who made poor investments and poor decisions,'' Mr. Martinez said last month on CNN's ''Late Edition.'' ''However, where I think he fell short, and I think you will agree with me, is the fact that we need to do some things that can help families, that can help people.''
 The Democratic presidential candidates reacted dismissively on Thursday to Mr. McCain's proposal.
 Senator Barack Obama of Illinois suggested in Gary, Ind., that the proposal was too tepid. It was the latest in the ever-escalating exchanges between the two senators and their campaigns.
 ''I'm glad he's finally offered a plan. Better late than never,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But don't expect any real answers. Don't expect it to actually help struggling families. Because Senator McCain's solution to the housing crisis seems a lot like the George Bush solution of sitting by and hoping it passes while families face foreclosure and watch the value of their homes decline.''
 At a news conference in Pittsburgh, Mrs. Clinton called Mr. McCain's proposal a ''warmed-over, half-hearted version of the very plan he criticized.''
 ''Just two weeks ago, Senator McCain said he'd rather do nothing than something about the housing crisis,'' said Mrs. Clinton, who ran an advertisement suggesting that Mr. McCain was unprepared to handle middle-of-the-night emergency phone calls about the economy. 
 ''Apparently, Senator McCain got the message,'' she said. ''Letting the phone ring and ring is not the way to respond to housing crises.''
 Mr. McCain, who does not always sound comfortable discussing the economy, is also laboring to undo any damage from the Republican primaries, when he was accused by a fellow Republican, Mitt Romney, of not knowing much about the economy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama said of Mr. McCain on Thursday: ''I'm glad he's finally offered a plan. Better late than never.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES)
 Senator John McCain, left, with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, before Mr. McCain's speech at a window company.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



286 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: The Face of a Prophet

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
George Soros will not go quietly.
 At the age of 77, Mr. Soros, one the world's most successful investors and richest men, leapt out of retirement last summer to safeguard his fortune and legacy. Alarmed by the unfolding crisis in the financial markets, he once again began trading for his giant hedge fund -- and won big while so many others lost.
 Mr. Soros has always been a controversial figure. But he is becoming more so with a new, dire forecast for the world economy. Last week he rushed out a book, his 10th, warning that the financial pain has only just begun. 
 ''I consider this the biggest financial crisis of my lifetime,'' Mr. Soros said during an interview Monday in his office overlooking Central Park. A ''superbubble'' that has been swelling for a quarter of a century is finally bursting, he said. 
 Mr. Soros, whose daring, controversial trades came to symbolize global capitalism in the 1990s, is now busy promoting his book, ''The New Paradigm for Financial Markets,'' which goes on sale next month. 
 And yet this is not the first time that Mr. Soros has prophesied doom. In 1998, he published a book predicting a global economic collapse that never came. 
 Mr. Soros thinks that this time he is right. Now in his eighth decade, he yearns to be remembered not only as a great trader but also as a great thinker. The market theory he has promoted for two decades and espoused most of his life -- something he calls ''reflexivity'' -- is still dismissed by many economists. The idea is that people's biases and actions can affect the direction of the underlying economy, undermining the conventional theory that markets tend toward some sort of equilibrium. 
 Mr. Soros said all aspects of his life -- finance, philanthropy, even politics -- are driven by reflexivity, which has to do with the feedback loop between people's understanding of reality and their own actions. Society as a whole could learn from his theory, he said. ''To make a contribution to our understanding of reality would be my greatest accomplishment,'' he said. 
 Mr. Soros has been worrying about the fragile state of the markets for years. But last summer, at a luncheon at his home in Southampton with 20 prominent financiers, he struck an unusually bearish note. 
 ''The mood of the group was generally gloomy, but George said we were going into a serious recession,'' said Byron Wien, the chief investment strategist of Pequot Capital, a hedge fund.
 Mr. Soros was one of only two people there who predicted the American economy was headed for a recession, he said. 
 Shortly after that luncheon Mr. Soros began meeting with hedge fund managers like John Paulson, who was early to predict a crisis in the housing market. He interrogated his portfolio managers and external hedge funds that manage his fund's money, and he took on new positions to hedge where they might have gone wrong. His last-minute strategies contributed to a 32 percent return -- or roughly $4 billion for the year.
 The more Mr. Soros learned about the crisis, the more certain he became that he should rebroadcast his theories. In the book, Mr. Soros, a fierce critic of the Bush administration, faults regulators for allowing the buildup of the housing and mortgage bubbles. He envisions a time, not so distant, when the dollar is no longer the world's main currency and people will have a harder time borrowing money. 
 Mr. Soros hopes his theories will finally win the respect he craves. But, ever the trader, he hedges his bets. ''I may well be proven wrong,'' he said. ''I would say that I'm the boy who cried wolf three times.''
 Many of the people Mr. Soros wants to influence may view him with skepticism, in part because of how he made his fortune. In 1992, his fund famously bet against the British pound and helped force the British government to devalue the currency. Five years later, he bet -- correctly -- that Thailand would be forced to devalue its currency, the baht. The resulting bitterness toward him among Thais was such that Mr. Soros canceled a trip to the country in 2001, fearing for his safety. 
 Asked if it bothers him that people accuse him of causing economic pain, his blue eyes dart around the room. ''Yes, it does, actually yes,'' he said. 
 Asked if those people are right to blame him, he says, ''Well no, not entirely.'' 
 No single investor can move a currency, he said. ''Markets move currencies, so what happened with the British pound would have happened whether I was born or not, so therefore I take no responsibility.''
 Mr. Soros, came of age in Nazi-occupied Hungary and has for decades longed to write a masterpiece that might put him among thinkers like Hegel or Keynes, said Michael T. Kaufman, who wrote a book about Mr. Soros. ''He spent years writing papers and letters to people, but everyone ignored him,'' Mr. Kaufman said. 
 But when Mr. Soros became rich, people began listening. He also started giving large sums to charities, and in Eastern Europe, as the Soviet Union crumbled, he distributed copy machines to encourage free speech in his native Hungary. So generous was Mr. Soros with his money that ''Sorosovat'' became a new verb in Russian, loosely meaning to apply for a grant. 
 He continues to be one of the top givers to charities around the world, and has given more than $5 billion away through his foundations.
 Yet even Mr. Soros acknowledges that many economists still slight his theories. 
 ''I am known as a hedge fund manager and I am known as a philanthropist, and it's very hard for, say, academics to accept that a hedge fund manager may actually have something to say about economics,'' Mr. Soros said. ''So that has been difficult for me to overcome.''
 But Joseph E. Stiglitz, a professor at Columbia who won the Nobel for economics in 2001, said Mr. Soros might still meet success. ''With a slightly different vocabulary these ideas, I think, are going to become more and more part of the center,'' said Mr. Stiglitz, a longtime friend of Mr. Soros. 
 Mr. Soros's firm, Soros Fund Management, has been through several turbulent years. Stanley Druckenmiller, his longtime No. 2, left in 2000, in part because he was tired of the constant media attention Mr. Soros attracted. (Mr. Soros credits Mr. Druckenmiller for the winning gamble on the British pound, saying he added the encouragement to bet more money on the trade.)
 Several outside investors also left, and Mr. Soros overhauled the company as more of a wealth management tool for his own family and related charities. Mr. Soros said in 2000 that he no longer desired returns like the 30.5 percent his fund returned on average, after management fees, from 1969 to 2000. 
 In 2004, Mr. Soros tapped his oldest son, Robert, to become the chief investment officer, despite Robert's reluctance. 
 At that time, Mr. Soros, was busy trying to turn public opinion against President Bush. He donated $27 million to anti-Bush organizations and traveled the country speaking out against the president. This time around, he is less involved. He endorsed Senator Barack Obama but kept his distance from the campaign trail.
 Robert Soros, 44, who once claimed his father based his trades not on grand theories like reflexivity but rather on his back pain, never shared his father's enthusiasm for the markets. ''When you're a billionaire's son, you're less hungry than when you're a Hungarian immigrant,'' one former Soros Fund Management executive said.
 Even so, the Soros fund performed well under the younger Soros, and as recently as last June, it was up 10 percent for the year, according to a letter toinvestors. At the end of July, Robert stepped down from his head investment role, just before his father returned to trading. Robert and his brother Jonathan remain deputy co-chairmen, under their father, the chairman of the fund. 
 This week, Mr. Wien illustrated the knack of Mr. Soros for timing with an old story. In 1995, Mr. Soros asked Mr. Wien why he bothered going to work every day. Why not go to work only on days when there is something to do? 
 ''I said, 'George, one of the differences between you and me is you know when those days are, and I don't,''' Mr. Wien said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
BUSINESS DAY
 Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about the financial predictions of the investor George Soros referred incompletely to the availability of his latest book, ''The New Paradigm for Financial Markets.'' As the article noted, the book goes on sale in bookstores in mid-May; but an electronic version is already available through Amazon.com and other online retailers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Soros, right, never shared the enthusiasm of his father, George, for following the markets. Robert is one of five Soros children. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL CUNNINGHAM/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C6)
 George Soros wants to make a lasting contribution to economic understanding. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOEL SAGET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PHILANTHROPY (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



287 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Gas Plant In L.I. Sound Is Rejected

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA; Angela Macropoulos contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In his first major policy decision on the environment, Gov. David A. Paterson on Thursday blocked the nation's first floating liquefied natural gas plant, which had been proposed for Long Island Sound. Moving ahead on the $700 million plant, he said, would put a large section of the Sound off limits to boaters and would not guarantee low-cost gas for Long Island.
 ''One of my goals as governor is to protect Long Island Sound,'' Mr. Paterson said at Sunken Meadow State Park, on Long Island. ''Shame on us if we can't develop a responsible energy policy without sacrificing one of our greatest natural and economic resources.'' 
 A broad range of environmental groups, community activists and elected officials from New York and Connecticut have strongly opposed the Broadwater Energy plan to build a 1,200-foot-long floating platform that looks like a ship and can hold up to 8 billion cubic feet of imported natural gas. 
 The proposed terminal, rising eight stories over the water line, would be moored in the widest part of Long Island Sound, nine miles north of Long Island and 10 miles from the Connecticut shoreline. Mr. Paterson's decision now makes it difficult, if not impossible, for the project to move forward. Broadwater executives said they would consider their legal and regulatory options.
 Mr. Paterson said the region could find other, more responsible ways to ensure sufficient energy supplies and he outlined a series of initial steps to meet growing energy demand. They include a new state energy plan and a $1 billion, 10-year program by the Long Island Power Authority to increase efficiency and to reduce energy consumption on Long Island. 
 The New York Power Authority would double its conservation budget to $1.4 billion through 2015 to reduce energy demand in government buildings.
 ''By reducing the amount of energy demand, and aggressively pursuing new responsible supply, we can get our state on a path toward lower energy costs, economic revitalization and a cleaner, healthier environment,'' Mr. Paterson said. 
 The project's opponents welcomed the governor's initiatives. ''What we've lacked up till now is general leadership on energy policy. We have that in Governor Paterson,'' said Adrienne Esposito, executive director of Citizens Campaign for the Environment, a citizens' group in Farmingdale, N.Y. ''We are ready, willing and able to walk with him on that policy road.''
 Mr. Paterson's decision was reported by The Associated Press on Wednesday and in Newsday on Thursday. 
 Broadwater is an energy consortium made up of Shell Oil and TransCanada Pipelines. The group conducted a public relations campaign in hopes of convincing officials and residents that by increasing the supply of natural gas to the region, the project would reduce the utility bills of local residents by up to $300 a year after the terminal was put into full operation in 2011. 
 Under the plan, tankers loaded with liquefied natural gas would dock at the floating terminal every two or three days. The liquefied gas would be piped into the floating terminal, where it would be warmed and turned into vapor. The gas then would be sent via a 22-mile underwater pipeline to the existing Iroquois pipeline that crosses Long Island Sound and serves New York and Connecticut. 
 The project appeared to gain momentum last month when it was approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Federal officials said that because Broadwater would have been the first floating natural gas terminal, it went through exceptional scrutiny before being approved. Even then, the commission imposed 80 conditions to improve safety and further reduce potential adverse environmental impacts. 
 Tamara Young-Allen, a commission spokeswoman, said that because the floating terminal would be moored within nine miles of the New York coast, the state had the right to review it for compliance with state laws. 
 Mr. Paterson said the New York Department of State has determined that the project was not consistent with New York's coastal zone management plan partly because a safety zone that would have to be established around the terminal would severely limit other marine traffic. 
 Ms. Young-Allen said Broadwater has the right to file an appeal with the United States Department of Commerce, which has jurisdiction over such coastal zone regulations. 
 John Hritcko, senior vice president and regional project director for Broadwater, said the rejection represents a ''missed opportunity'' to lower energy prices for consumers and businesses.
 ''We continue to believe that the Broadwater project, as proposed, is the best option for New York State to meet its growing demand for clean, affordable, reliable natural gas,'' Mr. Hritcko said in a statement. 
 The project's supporters were disappointed with the decision. Diane Goins of Hempstead, a leader with the Long Island Chapter of Acorn, a community organization, said high energy costs were hurting low-income families. ''We've got people in our community who have to make decisions about keeping the lights on or getting something to eat,'' Ms. Goins said. ''We felt that Broadwater was a solution. But now that they've made this decision, these elected officials have to come together to find some other solution.'' 
 Wayne J. Hall Sr., the mayor of Hempstead and a project supporter, said it was good that Mr. Paterson was proposing alternatives, including a broad energy plan. ''But how long is that going to take?'' he said. 
 Broadwater's opponents argued that the project would not reduce energy costs and represented an unacceptable risk because it would be vulnerable to a terrorist attack. 
 Although natural gas is considered the cleanest-burning fossil fuel, environmentalists said the terminal would jeopardize traditional industries on Long Island Sound, like fishing and oyster harvesting. ''This is a body of water that millions of people reside around, and that billions of dollars have been spent to restore,'' said Robert Moore, executive director of the nonprofit group Environmental Advocates of New York. ''Energy efficiency really is the cheapest way of meeting our future energy needs.''

GRAPHIC: MAP (pg. B5) Map showing the location of the proposed national gas tank. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PROCESSING (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (77%); STATE PARKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (69%); CONSUMPTION (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (53%); SHELL OIL CO (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



288 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Bush Dispatches Envoys to Arab Capitals as Part of Iraq Plan

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
President Bush directed Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top commander in Iraq, and Ryan C. Crocker, the American ambassador to Baghdad, to stop in Saudi Arabia on their way back to Iraq from Washington to encourage the Saudis to increase their overall support for Iraq, Mr. Bush said Thursday. 
 The president also said he had ordered senior American diplomats to the Middle East to meet leaders of Kuwait, Jordan, Qatar, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates and urge them to reopen their embassies in Baghdad, as Bahrain did recently. Mr. Bush said that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice would attend a conference later this month in Kuwait for neighboring states and another in Stockholm for nations helping Iraq rebuild its economy. 
 ''A stable, successful, independent Iraq is in the strategic interests of Arab nations,'' Mr. Bush said at the White House. ''And all who want peace in the Middle East should support a stable, democratic Iraq.''
 Coming at the end of a week that featured the Congressional testimony of General Petraeus and Mr. Crocker defending the administration's Iraq policy, the renewed diplomatic effort is intended to build on a quiet campaign that has been under way for months. 
 Several top American diplomats, military officers and intelligence officials have visited more than a dozen Middle East countries in an effort to cut the flow of foreign fighters into Iraq, General Petraeus said Thursday. 
 The general said that the entreaties were part of a multipronged effort to choke off what he described as the stream of money, weapons and foreign fighters who serve as suicide bombers for Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia's. 
 At a news conference here, General Petraeus cited trips to the region by Dell L. Dailey, a retired three-star Army general who is the State Department's top counterterrorism official, as well as his own travels to Iraq's neighbors to ''get at the networks, the countries in which they operate and the sources of some of these foreign fighters.'' 
 General Petraeus did not name the countries he visited, but The Associated Press reported that since September he had visited Jordan, Kuwait Bahrain, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates. ''There's no one silver bullet, as you well know, that can be shot that stops the flow of foreign fighters,'' General Petraeus said. ''Rather, it takes a host of different efforts.'' Foreign fighters make up a small minority of the overall number of insurgents in Iraq, American officials say.
 In an interview on Thursday, General Dailey said that he had traveled to some dozen countries to press for tighter controls. Between November and February, he visited Saudi Arabia, Libya, Yemen, Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, Jordan and Egypt. 
 General Dailey said that cracking down on the flow of foreign fighters would reduce the most dangerous attacks against allied forces in Iraq, since the vast majority of suicide bombers were foreigners. But he said he also underscored to the officials he met in each country that the militants posed a serious threat if they left Iraq and returned home. 
 ''Now the country has the problem of a well-trained, combat-seasoned, twisted individual probably ready to do some damage in the source country,'' he said.
 General Dailey said he made the visits based on data from documents and computers discovered last September, when American forces raided an insurgent camp in the desert near Sinjar, close to the Syrian border. The most significant discovery in the trove was a collection of biographical sketches that listed hometowns, dates of birth, aliases and other details for more than 700 fighters brought into Iraq since August 2006.
 General Dailey said that in each country he visited with a team of specialists from the Defense, Treasury, Justice and Homeland Security departments, he presented the data on foreign fighters from that nation. He said virtually all the countries he visited were receptive to using the data to help identify militants and stem their flight to Iraq. 
 Syria, through which American officials say most foreign fighters enter Iraq, was contacted through low-level diplomatic channels about two months ago to help crack down on the passage through its borders and tighten its visa procedures. General Dailey said. Asked about the Syrian response, he said, ''The jury is still out.'' 
 Combined with the military operations, including the raid on the Sinjar cell, the diplomatic campaign seems to have had an effect, American officials said. 
 Rear Adm. Gregory J. Smith, a military spokesman in Iraq, told reporters on March 16 that the number of foreign fighters being brought into Iraq had fallen to about 40 or 50 a month, from a peak of 120 a month in mid-2007. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ARMIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); AL-QAEDA (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (51%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DAVID PETRAEUS (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) JORDAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (94%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%); EGYPT (93%); QATAR (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); TURKEY (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); MOROCCO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



289 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: MySpace Signs Deal to Aim Its Content for Overseas TV

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
Positioning the social network as a breeding ground for television series, MySpace has signed a deal with a British-based production firm, ShineReveille International, to distribute its video content overseas. 
 MySpace, which counts 110 million members and is owned by the News Corporation, has increasingly sought to be seen as a destination for original content and in a news release on Thursday, the company called itself ''Hollywood's digital playground.'' 
 ShineReveille International, the distribution arm of the Shine Group, has brokered the international format rights to hit shows including ''The Biggest Loser'' and ''Are You Smarter Than a Fifth Grader?'' 
 ''We're very excited to see how the shows on online platforms can transfer to television,'' Alex Mahon, the president of the Shine Group, said.
 Elisabeth Murdoch, a daughter of the News Corporation's chairman, Rupert Murdoch, is the chief executive of the Shine Group.
 Online video shows typically lack the expensive production values of television and often run shorter than five minutes in length. They have remained largely untested on television. James McQuivey, an analyst for Forrester Research, said MySpace might be trying to demonstrate optimism in the future of the online video medium.
 ''We haven't yet seen a show start on the Web and succeed enough to go to television and require this kind of international deal-making,'' Mr. McQuivey said.
 The drama ''Quarterlife,'' widely considered the first experiment in translating an Internet show to television, flopped in February when fewer than four million viewers watched it debut on NBC. But ''Quarterlife'' may not be a fair model for what MySpace hopes to do. Rather than string together segments of Web episodes for television, Ms. Mahon said, Shine intends to localize shows for international markets and adapt specific concepts of the shows for television.
 ''There are plenty of sitcoms that have emerged out of one sketch on a show,'' Ms. Mahon said.
 In effect, MySpace hopes to provide an alternative pilot process. Rather than spend millions of dollars on a test TV episode that might never receive a series order, the company hopes to use its social network as a test bed. In the United States, MySpace's TV section has two original shows, ''Roommates'' and a hidden-camera series, ''Special Delivery,'' and more than a dozen in development. MySpace said it would retain the distribution rights to its content in the United States.
 Abroad, the company is equally busy. ''Every international territory of MySpace is looking for original content opportunities,'' said Jamie Kantrowitz, the site's senior vice president for international marketing and content. In Spain, MySpace produces ''Porta,'' a series about a hip-hop star, in partnership with Universal Music. In the United Kingdom, MySpace is piloting ''I Love Chieftown,'' another music-based series, later this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); PRESS RELEASES (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET VIDEO (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (92%); MYSPACE INC (74%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (92%); NWS (ASX) (92%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (74%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (74%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2008



290 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1571 words

HEADLINE: Charities Seek Donors To Replace Wall Street

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
Bring on the worry beads.
 Charities that benefit from the largess of Wall Street, law firms and corporations in New York have begun defensive planning for the end of this social season and next year. 
 Many fortunes have been wiped out at Bear Stearns, and the rest of the financial world is bracing for more bad news and layoffs, a harbinger of tougher times for fund-raising. 
 Having come off a stellar year for donations, the charities seem to have adopted a mood more cautionary than dire. But they are looking at ways to put pressure on longtime donors and reach out to new ones even as they brace for fewer contributions directly from corporations.
 Charities are generally unwilling to cut prices for benefits, even when things get grim. ''We don't like to put the events on sale,'' said Stephanie Astic, whose Stephanie Astic Productions organizes fund-raisers that are largely dependent on corporate giving. ''But I think everybody is starting to freak out. At the end of the day, you have to throw the net out to a wider group of people.'' 
 One annual New York event produced by Ms. Astic came up $50,000 short of its target on Thursday night, though it brought in more than last year.
 Based on the rule of thumb in philanthropy -- that 90 percent of the money is raised from 10 percent of the donors -- the very wealthy can expect to be receiving more and more requests. Some smaller charities, without well-established connections, will probably suffer in the tighter giving environment. Perhaps the most vulnerable are those that were large recipients of Bear Stearns money.
 The Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation, an international effort to find a cure for cancer, raised about $5.7 million at its annual dinner dance and auction at the Armory on 23rd Street last year. Of the 1,200 guests, about 800 were cultivated largely through relationships with Bear Stearns. 
 Dr. Samuel Waxman, a hematologist and oncologist and a distinguished professor of medicine at Mount Sinai's hospital and its medical school, who has long headed the foundation, gives considerable credit to his nephew, Michael Nierenberg, who is chairman of the foundation board and a high-ranking Bear Stearns executive. 
 ''He has helped change the entire financial outlook of the foundation and increased assets about fourfold,'' Dr. Waxman said of Mr. Nierenberg's eight years in the foundation's post. 
 Merle Kailas, the Waxman Foundation's executive director, said, ''I think it would be unrealistic to expect the same level of donations from the same donor base, but that does not mean you cannot make new friends.'' 
 As part of the Bear Stearns culture, molded by the former chairman, Alan C. Greenberg, 1,000 senior managing directors gave away 4 percent of their compensation each year to charity. 
 Mr. Greenberg himself has been a major fund-raiser for the United Jewish Appeal. An annual September dinner at his home for top donors raised $41 million last year, according to the charity. 
 Paul M. Kane, senior vice president of the UJA-Federation of New York, said he was optimistic and that his organization would tailor its message to the times. ''Clearly, what we do when times are bad, we tell our story, which is that those who are most vulnerable, are most hurt,'' he said. 
 Several philanthropists said, however, that they were concerned that raising money for such organizations would be harder because Bear Stearns had been so active. 
 A number of Bear Stearns executives, including James E. Cayne, the former chief executive, have also given heavily through their own foundations. The James E. and Patricia D. Cayne Charitable Trust held $30.9 million, largely in Bear Stearns stock, on May 31, 2007, the end of its last fiscal year, according to publicly filed documents.
 If the shares were sold before the stock made its plunge from a high of $170 last summer to about $10, the foundation still has significant money to distribute. More recent information was not available. A Bear Stearns spokesman declined to comment. 
 Tax filings show that the Cayne foundation gave away $2.6 million in its last fiscal year, including $453,000 to the UJA-Federation of New York; $98,125 to the New York Center for Autism; $100,000 to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center; and $52,000 to the 92nd Street Y. 
 Mr. Cayne's successor as chief executive, Alan D. Schwartz, also put company stock in a foundation. The Schwartz Family Foundation held $20.7 million in assets at the end of 2006. Mr. Schwartz donated $10 million in Bear Stearns stock to the foundation that year. The foundation sold the shares almost immediately, locking in those gains and assuring it still has money to distribute. 
 Giving away stock that has appreciated in value is a popular way for wealthy donors to maximize their giving. The foundation does not have to pay tax on the gains when the stock is sold, and the donor gets a tax break for the amount of the gift. Mr. Schwartz probably saved about $3 million in taxes by making the $10 million donation. 
 In 2006, his foundation donated $646,000 spread across a variety of beneficiaries, including $100,000 each to N.Y.U. Hospitals Center and St. Vincent's Services in Brooklyn, records show. 
 Foundations are required to give away 5 percent of their assets annually. Bear Stearns aside, a sinking stock market will probably shrink assets at many foundations, and in turn the amount of funds that they distribute. 
 One firm's demise is hardly enough to bring down Manhattan philanthropy, which has been booming over the last decade. Some fund-raisers remain upbeat. ''The very, very wealthy people are still hugely rich, and in my experience they give 90 percent of the money in any particular campaign,'' said Toni Goodale, whose firm raises money and consults for nonprofit groups. ''Maybe losing money will have a psychological impact for a certain period of time, but I have not seen that yet.'' 
 Other longtime fund-raisers are far less sanguine. 
 A lot of young people who considered themselves rich ''are not rich anymore,'' said one fund-raiser who asked not to be identified. ''Citigroup and Lehman are selling at one half where they were. The economy of New York is very financial services driven, and if people are feeling half as rich as they were a year ago, your instincts would say they are not going to be as generous. ''
 Giving directly by corporations is relatively easy to track. Reynold Levy, president of Lincoln Center and author of ''Give and Take: A Candid Account of Corporate Philanthropy'' (Harvard Business School Press, 1999), says that corporate giving rises and falls with corporate earnings. The only other variable is corporate cutbacks.
 ''If corporations earn more money, but do it through expense reductions, they are unwilling to give money away publicly because it looks unseemly,'' Mr. Levy said. 
 For example, UBS announced in December that it had withdrawn its support of the UBS Verbier Orchestra, an elite training ensemble that is based at the Verbier Festival in Switzerland and that has ties to the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra. The bank had spent nearly $10 million a year promoting and paying for the orchestra and helping finance the festival.
 For wealthy individuals, cutting back on their gifts may be harder because of the public embarrassment. They may not cancel a commitment entirely, but they may ask for more time to complete their contribution.
 And several wealthy individuals said privately that they expected to see some cutbacks to charities that are less well known, where people might buy tickets to help out a friend on the board. One woman who ison several Manhattan boards and did not want to be identified for fear of offending friends who are fund-raisers, said she was already throwing out some of those invitations.
 Charities that depend heavily on individual giving and have a high social profile are breathing a sigh of relief as their season draws to a close. Gillian Miniter, who works for several charities, including the Central Park Conservancy and the School of American Ballet, said those groups, which started their drives during the winter, had done well. 
 But even there, corporate gifts are thinning out. ''Some of the liquor companies used to make donations and give us liquor,'' Ms. Miniter said. ''Now they give us the liquor, but they don't make the donations.'' 
 Ms. Astic also sees sparser contributions from companies. ''Corporations are cutting back because they don't know how the rest of the year will play out, and they are nervous,'' she said. 
 She produced a fund-raiser for the National Kidney Foundation on Thursday. Last year the annual benefit raised $450,000. Taking count of good times, it raised its 2008 goal to $600,000. This year, it fell $50,000 short of its target. 
 In the new environment, charities are looking to reach more prospective donors. Legal Services NY will honor Brackett B. Denniston 3rd, senior vice president and general counsel of General Electric, at its May 6 benefit. ''Last year we had two co-chairmen,'' Ms. Astic said. ''This year, we decided to have four co-chairmen.'' 
 Co-chairmen are expected to raise a set amount of money, and having more of them reduced some of the pressure. ''They positioned themselves in a way that would let them meet their goals,'' Ms. Astic said. ''It is a response to the current crisis.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The National Kidney Foundation raised $550,000 on Thursday at a benefit at the Allen Room and Atrium at Jazz at Lincoln Center. Charities worry that fund-raising will be tougher this year as corporations, facing a weaker economy, cut their donations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1)
 The Kidney Foundation's benefit on Thursday raised $100,000 more than last year but fell short of the charity's goal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); CHARITIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (86%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); ONCOLOGY (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%); CANCER (68%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (66%); PATHOLOGY (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL KIDNEY FOUNDATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



291 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: A Defense of the Boss's Pay

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
INCREASES in the pay of corporate chief executives since 1980 have caused anger among countless employees and some shareholders.
 The average chief executive of a company listed on the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index earned $15.06 million in 2006, according to the Corporate Library, an independent research firm. But according to an article in The American, the boss may not be overpaid.
 Xavier Gabaix, an associate professor of finance at New York University, points out in an interview with Laura Vanderkam that there could be a simple explanation for what seems like excessive pay. The salary increases were almost exactly in line with the rise in market capitalization of large corporations based in the United States over that time. 
 ''The trend lines of market capitalization and executive payouts rose and dipped in near-perfect tandem,'' Ms. Vanderkam writes. ''Indeed, C.E.O. compensation fell from 2000 to 2003 as the market tanked.''
 As for why the salary of the average worker has not risen much, Mr. Gabaix responds that ''the median worker, sadly for him or her, just manages a very small part of the economy.'' The economy as a whole, he adds, ''has not grown by that much -- just 2.5 percent a year or so.''
 Mr. Gabaix published his research, which was conducted with a colleague at N.Y.U., Augustin Landier, in The Quarterly Journal of Economics. 
 WOMEN AT THE TOP In 1977, just 2.3 percent of executives in American business were women. Today, about 52 percent of all middle managers are, Harriet Rubin writes in Conde Nast Portfolio magazine.
 But she concludes that the days of sexism are not over. ''While women have made huge professional gains in the past three decades, progress now appears to have slowed or stalled,'' says Ms. Rubin, who occasionally writes for The New York Times. ''In some cases, it's even backsliding. Key indicators such as pay, board seats and corporate officer posts all reflect a leveling off or drop in recent years.''
 She points out that the number of female officers among Fortune 500 companies has declined yearly since 2005, ''following substantial gains in the past decade.''
 Last year, the number of those companies with more than three female officers fell by 31, to 203, while the number of companies with no female officers increased by 10, to 74.
 The situation is the same for directors. While the number of women on boards steadily rose from 1995 to 2005, it has been ''essentially flat for the past three years.'' Last year, women held 14.8 percent of seats on the boards of Fortune 500 companies.
 TAX DAY ''It's the day Lincoln died (1865) and Jackie Robinson broke baseball's color line (1947),'' Clayton Neuman writes in Fast Company. For most of us, though, April 15 will be tax day, the day our taxes are due. Here are some items to ponder, courtesy of the magazine: 
 The United States collected about $2.5 trillion in federal taxes in the 2006 fiscal year, the latest year for which numbers are available. About half came from individuals.
 ''The government estimates that each year, the I.R.S. fails to collect about $345 billion.''
 Out of over 140 million returns last year, about 80 million were filed electronically.
 ''The wealthiest 1 percent of Americans earn 21 percent of total national income, but pay 39 percent of taxes.''
 About 10 percent of us wait until the last day to file -- or ask for an extension.
 FINAL TAKEReader's Digest, citing the book ''Unusually Stupid Americans,'' by Kathryn and Ross Petras, has compiled a list of business deductions people have tried to claim.
 Here are two of our favorites: One woman claimed a mink coat as a legitimate expense because she said ''she worked better when she looked her best.'' Then there was the ''fee paid to a business consultant who happened to be an arsonist: claimed by a furniture owner whose business burned down.''
 PAUL B. BROWN

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (89%); TRENDS (79%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); WOMEN (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BASEBALL (70%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



292 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: Shares Sink as G.E. Disappoints

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street stumbled Friday after a disappointing first-quarter report from General Electric surprised the market and stoked concern about both corporate profits and the wider economy. The major indexes fell more than 2 percent, with the Dow Jones industrials giving up more than 250 points.
 A weaker-than-expected reading showing consumer confidence at a 26-year low damped any positive sentiment. 
 G.E., which is regarded as a bellwether of big business, said its financial services divisions had been challenged by the slowing American economy and difficult capital markets. The company, which has units in entertainment, consumer and industrial manufacturing, finance and health care, also lowered its projections for the entire year.
 The shortfall at the conglomerate, which is one of the early companies to post first-quarter results, stirred worries of more similarly dreary pictures. This week, the aluminum producer Alcoa reported disappointing results and the chip maker Advanced Micro Devices issued a profit warning.
 ''The market really is focusing on the extent to which problems in the credit markets are spilling over into the real economy,'' said Brian Gendreau, investment strategist for ING Investment Management in New York.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 256.56 points, or 2.04 percent, to 12,325.42. G.E. was by far the steepest decliner among the 30 stocks that compose the Dow. Its shares dropped $4.70, or 13 percent, to $32.05.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 27.72 points, or 2.04 percent, to 1,332.83, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 61.46 points, or 2.61 percent, to 2,290.24.
 Friday's pullback followed a comparatively quiet week in which the major indexes showed modest adjustments. Stocks were little changed Monday, declined Tuesday after profit warnings from companies including United Parcel Service and posted moderate gains Thursday after a drop in unemployment claims.
 For the week, the Dow lost 2.3 percent, the S.& P. 500 declined 2.7 percent and the Nasdaq gave up 3.4 percent.
 Bond prices rose Friday as investors took up defensive positions in government debt. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 19/32, to 100 8/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, fell to 3.47 percent, from 3.54 percent.
 The May contract for crude oil rose 3 cents, to settle at $110.14 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 The preliminary Reuters/University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment fell to 63.2 for April -- its lowest point since 1982 -- from 69.5 in March, according to Dow Jones Newswires. Economists polled by Thomson/IFR had, on average, expected a reading of 68.
 Alan Lancz, director at the investment research group LanczGlobal in Toledo, Ohio, said that G.E.'s results offered new evidence that forecasts for corporate profits in general remained too rosy.
 ''They're facing a lot of headwinds that I don't think a lot of analysts have put into their numbers,'' he said.
 Mr. Lancz contends that the Federal Reserve's moves last month to head off the collapse of Bear Stearns might have led some investors to become complacent about the scope of the troubles still facing the economy.
 Linda Duessel, a market strategist at Federated Investors in Pittsburgh, noting that G.E. is known for its dependability in meeting Wall Street's forecasts, said that its drop in profits suggests that other first-quarter results could reveal weakness well beyond the financial industry.
 ''That company is known for being kind of a window to the market and the economy,'' she said.
 In other corporate news, Frontier Airlines Holdings filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Unlike the three other airlines that have filed for bankruptcy recently, the carrier plans to keep operating while it reorganizes. Shares of Frontier fell $1.09, or 69 percent, to 48 cents.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); PROFIT WARNINGS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); PRICE INCREASES (85%); BONDS (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (71%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (70%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (70%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%); PUBLIC DEBT (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); ING GROEP NV (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%); ALCOA INC (56%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%); DOW JONES NEWSWIRES (50%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); INGA (BIT) (57%); INGA (AMS) (57%); ING (NYSE) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%); AAI (ASX) (56%); AA (NYSE) (56%); UPS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (56%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (56%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (53%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



293 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Examining the Economics of Off Off Broadway

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

 BODY:
Time was, bringing economic analysis to bear on the freewheeling Off Off Broadway theater of New York would have been seen as comparable to taking a slide rule to a Jackson Pollock painting. But with the city growing increasingly expensive and many theater artists forced to become more pragmatic, that attitude has changed. 
 This week the New York Innovative Theater Foundation, a four-year-old organization known primarily for the IT Awards it gives to Off Off Broadway productions, released what is intended to be the first of several studies of Off Off Broadway economics: a statistical analysis of production budgets put together from a survey of dozens of theater companies. 
 ''Nobody's ever done statistics about the community, and I think it's held us back,'' said Shay Gines, the executive director of the foundation.
 The Alliance of Resident Theaters/New York, an advocacy organization for nonprofit theaters at all levels in the city, counts about 260 Off Off Broadway companies among its 400 members, which it surveys annually on financial sources, cash flow and other economic data. That information is not published, though it is used when working with foundations and government agencies that provide money for the arts, said Virginia Louloudes, the executive director of the alliance. 
 The IT Awards survey, released on Tuesday, is dedicated exclusively to Off Off Broadway companies. It is not exhaustive, which would probably be an impossibility anyway; Off Off Broadway is huge and fluctuates by the minute. (A production is considered Off Off Broadway if it is playing in a theater with 99 or fewer seats.) 
 By monitoring various theater Web sites that list Off Off Broadway shows, the foundation counted roughly 1,700 individual Off Off Broadway productions during the 2006-7 season. Its database includes about 350 companies in the five boroughs. 
 Seventy-three companies responded to the budget survey, including some that have been around for more than 40 years, and some for less than a year and a half. 
 About two-thirds of the companies that responded were seven years old or younger; most present one or two productions a year; a little more than half produce new work exclusively. The average total production budget is around $18,000. (Nearly a quarter of the companies reported production budgets in excess of $25,000.) The most expensive item in the budgets was rent: companies paid on average $1,650 a week for theater space, and three respondents reported paying $4,000 a week. 
 About three-fifths of the companies said they paid their actors (a higher proportion than expected, Ms. Gines said), albeit small amounts. Of the groups that paid, the average total came to $2,110 for the entire cast for the full run of a production. 
 The foundation next wants to explore Off Off Broadway's demographics and, after that, to develop an economic impact study, Ms. Gines said. The reaction so far from several companies appears favorable. 
 ''This is a good first step, a snapshot of what our community does every day,'' said Tim Errickson, the artistic director of the 10-year-old Boomerang Theater Company in Manhattan. 
 While the information can be used by individual theater groups -- Mr. Errickson, for example, said he would quote the studies when negotiating with city officials about putting on plays in public parks -- it could also be crucial to lobbying efforts. 
 ''We've been dying for numbers,'' said Paul Bargetto, the artistic director of East River Commedia, based in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and one of the founders of an Off Off Broadway lobbying group called the League of Independent Theater. ''It's been really hard for us to say 'Look what we do' beyond the artistic arguments.''
 The group, which currently has about a dozen theater professionals among its members, was started last year by Mr. Bargetto and two other downtown producers, John Clancy and John Pinckard, so that small companies could muster a united front when tackling issues like government subsidies, real estate pressures and the showcase code, the Actors' Equity rules governing Off Off Broadway productions. 
 Mr. Bargetto's organization, along with the IT Awards foundation and other groups, has been vocal about changing the code, which allows Equity members to work for stipends in Off Off Broadway productions as long as there are limits to the number of performances, the production budget, the rehearsal schedule and the price of tickets. 
 About 60 percent of the companies responding to the budget survey reported having at least one Equity member in a production. Mr. Bargetto, who was not involved with the budget survey, said he suspected some of the reported figures were low, as Off Off Broadway companies have been known to understate their budgets to remain in compliance with the showcase code. 
 The League of Independent Theater also intends to fight the closing of performance spaces, and that is where hard economic data could come in handy. The organization, Mr. Bargetto said, is planning its own economic study, which it would use to buttress arguments about the advantages of keeping theaters open.
 All the number-crunching is a sign that Off Off Broadway is trying to move past its ''Hey, let's put on a show'' reputation and fight for concrete gains, Mr. Bargetto said. But that, in turn, indicates how tough conditions are becoming.
 ''You start to show people the numbers involved here,'' he said. ''What city wouldn't want to have 350 to 400 not-for-profit theater companies?'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Burning the Old Man,'' an Off Off Broadway production by the Boomerang Theater Company. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (94%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); BUDGETS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); STATISTICAL METHOD (75%)

COMPANY: BROADWAY COS INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3544 SPECIAL DIES & TOOLS, DIE SETS, JIGS & FIXTURES & INDUSTRIAL MOLDS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



294 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
SLIDESHOW: TRAVEL: WEEKEND IN CHIANG MAI, THAILAND
 Chiang Mai has long served as a backpacker's gateway to Thailand's northern reaches, but an influx of Thai artists and Western expatriates has turned it into a vibrant destination. A slide show of 36 hours in the quiet city. Above, children on the steps leading to the Doi Suthep Buddhist temple. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 FLOYD NORRIS BLOG: 
 From Bad to Worse
 For the first time since Jimmy Carter was in the White House, more Americans expect their finances to worsen rather than improve. The last time the pessimists outnumbered the optimists was in April 1980.
 nytimes.com/norris
 AUDIO: BACK STORY: CHARITIES PINCHED
 Geraldine Fabrikant and Winnie O'Kelley discuss how the slowing economy has charities bracing for fewer and smaller contributions from corporations and private donors.
 nytimes.com/business
 BITTEN: 
 The Best Cookbooks
 When Mark Bittman asked readers to suggest cookbooks that deserved to be included on an updated list of ''50 Cookbooks I Can't Live Without,'' he found the responses encouraging. The most prominent trend was the role vegetarian cookbooks have assumed in today's kitchen, even for people who aren't vegetarians.
 nytimes.com/bitten
 SHIFTING CAREERS: TAKE YOUR PARENTS TO WORK
 Are young people relying too much on their parents when they make decisions about work?
 nytimes.com/shiftingcareers
 AUDIO: OBSTACLES TO CITIZENSHIP
 Interviews with Dr. Pedro Servano, a Filipino doctor who may be deported after his naturalization petition was rejected, as well as his family, the mayor of his town (Sunbury, Pa.) and one of his patients. Also, a forum where readers can submit stories describing their own struggles with the immigration system.
 nytimes.com/national
 SLIDESHOW: CITY ROOM:
 The Week in Pictures
 Images of Senator John McCain enjoying a slice of New York-style pizza after leaving a round-table discussion with small-business owners in Brooklyn, a half-acre terrazzo road map of New York State from the 1964-65 World's Fair, and fog that lingered in the East River around the Brooklyn Bridge.
 nytimes.com/cityroom

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); MAYORS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); DEPORTATION (72%); RELIGION (71%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); CITIZENSHIP (67%); MEAT FREE DIETS (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); NATURALIZATION (64%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (55%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) THAILAND (93%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



295 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Sure It's Frustrating and Expensive, But Travelers Just Have to Travel

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN; Crystal Yednak contributed reporting from Chicago, Nick Bunkley from Detroit and Rachel Pomerance from Atlanta.

 BODY:
Nina Rubin, who is in public relations in Atlanta, is going back to the Berkshires this summer but is hoping to save money on her plane ticket by flying into a smaller airport. Sandy Clark, stuck in Chicago when American Airlines canceled her flight, is still planning to fly to Providence, R.I., for her vacation.
 ''The only other option is to stay home,'' she said, and that is not an acceptable option for many Americans. 
 Despite the many flight cancellations in recent days, the slowing economy, rising gas prices and the weak dollar, Americans appear to be sticking to their summer vacation plans and business travelers are still being sent around the globe. The only change from last summer is the new emphasis on finding ways to cut costs. 
 ''Leisure travel is kind of like food and rent -- it's considered an essential cost within a relevant range,'' said Bjorn Hanson, who follows the hospitality industry for PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 By many measures, the number of people traveling set records in 2007, and those figures are holding steady so far this year. Travel agents and industry analysts report robust bookings for domestic, international and business travel. That is even true for trips to Europe, but some people are opting for destinations where the dollar goes further, like Portugal instead of Britain. And foreigners, flush with strong currencies, are traveling in record numbers to the United States.
 As for business travel, Mr. Hanson says companies have cut back so much since 2000 that there is not much fat left to trim, but they are enforcing travel policies more strictly to control costs. And full flights may affect business travel in a different way: no room on the plane for executives who make last-minute plans.
 ''If you decide two days before a travel date and can't find a reservation, travel just doesn't happen,'' Mr. Hanson said.
 It turns out that demand for travel is less influenced by the overall economy and airport struggles than all kinds of factors not easily measured -- like how much snow is on the ground, where grandpa and grandma live, and even whether a favorite football team is doing well.
 ''Since the Packers made it to the N.F.C. championship, our business was slow in January,'' said Chip Juedes, director for marketing for Fox World Travel, an agency his grandfather started in 1960 that now has 14 locations in Wisconsin.
 Mr. Juedes said business was flat so far this year, after years of growth, but he attributed that mostly to Easter overlapping with spring break in March, rather than having two separate travel times. The silver lining was record snowfalls throughout the state.
 ''We've had a terrible winter, and that's affected us, too -- in a good way,'' he said. ''Everyone wants to get out of here.''
 Although the airlines are struggling with skyrocketing fuel prices, aging planes and calls for tighter regulation, one bright spot for the industry is that passengers are still filling up seats and booking flights.
 ''We're concerned about a recession, but probably more in the second half of the year,'' said John Heimlich, chief economist for the Air Transport Association, pointing out that airlines have not announced widespread fare sales.
 ''That to me is always a sign of an effort to stimulate traffic -- and we haven't seen a lot of that,'' he said.
 Nor have hotels been doing much discounting. Room rates in the United States were up 6 percent in 2007, to an average of $104 a night, and increased 5 percent in the first quarter of this year, according to Smith Travel Research.
 Despite higher prices, especially in cities like New York, where the average rate is $270, the number of rooms sold increased 1.2 percent last year and is forecast to increase about 1.4 percent in 2008.
 One factor bolstering this demand is the influx of foreign travelers. In 2007, some 57 million foreigners traveled to the United States, spending $123 billion -- a record on both counts, according to the Department of Commerce.
 ''Although the weak dollar hasn't been helpful for U.S. travel abroad, it has been quite helpful for international travelers coming here,'' Mr. Heimlich said.
 Over all, airlines based in the United States carried 769 million passengers last year, an annual record.
 What is surprising travel agents is that Americans are still going to Europe in record numbers, even though a cappuccino can cost up to $10 when they get there.
 In 2007, 13.25 million Americans visited Europe, a 2.7 percent increase over 2006, and some industry analysts expect that number will at least remain flat, if not increase slightly, this year. 
 But some European travel has shifted to less expensive countries. The number of American visitors to Portugal, for instance, increased 20 percent last year. The current data may also reflect trips planned long before the recent turmoil in the financial markets. 
 Darren Katz, president of a communications company in Atlanta, said he still planned to vacation in Italy this summer with his family, but watching the dollar plunge against the euro has made him nervous about the trip's rising cost.
 ''We planned this trip probably over a year ago and so as the dollar has slipped, everything that we're planning on doing is becoming exponentially more expensive,'' he said.
 Americans are economizing on trips to Europe by opting for hotel rates guaranteed in dollars, buying all-inclusive packages or cruises or shortening their trips. 
 ''They're really being more savvy and resourceful and taking advantage of all the discounts and offers available to them,'' said Mona Hamouly, a spokeswoman for American Express Travel. That same pattern is reflected in the business travel market, according to Matthew Patterson, global project manager for Carlson Wagonlit Travel.
 ''That's the biggest change I've seen for the past three to six months: companies are trying to make smarter buying decisions,'' he said.
 These efforts include encouraging employees to book tickets earlier for lower fares, requiring them to choose flights based on price rather than departure time or reining in spending on meals.
 But most corporate travel managers pointed out that in a global economy, companies cannot afford to keep employees at home, even when air travel is frustrating.
 ''Business travel happens for a specific reason, and carrier service issues aren't going to drive bookings down,'' Mr. Patterson said.
 It is also possible that certain inconveniences are overstated, like the effect of gas prices on summer driving trips.
 ''The average trip that people take is about 600 miles each way,'' said Roger Dow, president and chief executive of the Travel Industry Association. If a car gets 15 miles per gallon and gas prices rise 20 cents, he said, ''That's a $16 or $20 increase in the price of a trip.''
 The association still expects the number of domestic travelers will grow 1.5 percent this year, a signal of how essential travel has become.
 ''Despite not knowing where the price of oil is going to go or the roller coaster stock market, I think people are very committed to family time, vacation time and multigenerational travel,'' said Jennifer Wilson-Buttigieg, co-president of Valerie Wilson Travel, an agency based in New York City. ''They're still going to go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jennifer Wilson-Buttigieg, of Valerie Wilson Travel, at the Four Seasons Hotel in London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAZEL THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C4)
 British tourists at Rockefeller Center in Manhattan. Foreigners are helping keep flights full. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1) GRAPH: INCREASING PROBLEMS: The number of canceled and late flights has risen each year since 2001, as air travel has increased. (Source: Bureau of Transportation Statistics) Graph showing an increase in the number of canceled and late flights since 2001. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); AIRLINES (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); TRAVEL AGENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (69%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



296 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Many More Are Jobless Than Are Unemployed

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE unemployment rate is low. The jobless rate is high.
 Those two seemingly contradictory statements are especially true for American men in what should be the prime of their working lives. Those facts may help to explain the stark pessimism of Americans about the economy, and shed some light on the rise of illegal immigration as a political issue.
 Men in the prime of their working lives are now less likely to have jobs than they were during all but one recession of the last 60 years. Most of them do not qualify as unemployed, but they are nonetheless without jobs. 
 The unemployment rate paints a less gloomy picture. Among men ages 25 to 54 -- a range that starts after most people finish their education and ends well before most people retire -- the unemployment rate is 4.1 percent. That is not especially low, but it is well below the peak rate in all but one post-World War II recession.
 Only people without jobs who are actively looking for work qualify as unemployed in the computation of that rate. It does not count people who are not looking for work, whether or not they would like to have a job.
 But there is another rate -- called the jobless rate in this article -- that counts the proportion of people without jobs. To be sure, some of them do not want to work. Some are raising families on a spouse's income, or are disabled, retired or independently wealthy. But others may be discouraged workers, who would take jobs if they thought any desirable positions were available.
 In the latest report, for March, the Labor Department reported the jobless rate -- also called the ''not employed rate'' by some -- at 13.1 percent for men in the prime age group. Only once during a post-World War II recession did the rate ever get that high. It hit 13.3 percent in June 1982, the 12th month of the brutal 1981-82 recession, and continued to rise from there.
 To be sure, employment is a lagging economic indicator, and rates higher than this have prevailed after recessions ended. But this rate has arrived at a time when the government still hopes that a recession can be averted.
 As can be seen in the accompanying chart, there has been a long-term decline in the proportion of prime-age men with jobs. That decline has been masked by rises in the number of older people with jobs and by a steady rise in the proportion of women working outside the home. But even among women there has been some slippage. The proportion of women ages 25 to 54 without jobs was 27.4 percent in March, a figure that is higher than it was during all but one month of the 2001 recession.
 The negative trend can also be seen in the other chart, which shows the annual change in the number of working men in the 25 to 54 age range, using a three-month moving average to smooth the figures.
 In the last half-century, that figure has turned negative only after recessions have been going on for at least a few months, although it has often stayed negative well after the recession officially ended. The lags have ranged from four months after the start of the 1960-61 and 2001 recessions, to 15 months after the beginning of the 1973-75 downturn, with an average lag of eight months. This year, the figure turned negative in January.
 The government breaks down the figures by race, and those figures show that over the last year almost all the jobs lost by men in the 25 to 54 age group have been lost by whites, with most of those losses affecting men ages 35 to 44. There have been just a small number of losses by black men in the 25 to 54 age group, and employment for Hispanic men is still growing, albeit at a much slower pace than it was a few months ago.
 The unemployment and jobless rates for white men are still lower than for black or Hispanic men, but this downturn stands in sharp contrast to the 2001 recession, when the number of black men with jobs began to fall months before the employment rate for white men dropped. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: FEWER MEN ARE WORKING: The unemployment rate reflects men without jobs who are looking for work. The jobless rate includes men who do not have jobs, whether or not they are seeking work. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); MEN (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); WOMEN (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); WORLD WAR II (67%); IMMIGRATION (57%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



297 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: Time for the Colombian Trade Pact

 BODY:
American workers are understandably anxious. Their incomes went nowhere through six years of economic growth. Many are losing their jobs as the economy slips into recession. Yet concern about workers' plight should not lead Congressional Democrats to reject the trade agreement with Colombia. This deal would benefit the American economy and further the nation's broader interests in Latin America. 
 It is time for Congress to ratify it.
 The trade pact would produce clear benefits for American businesses and their workers. Most Colombian exports are exempt from United States' tariffs. American exports, however, face high Colombian tariffs and would benefit as the so-called trade promotion agreement brought them down to zero. 
 The deal also would strengthen the institutional bonds tying the United States to Colombia, one of America's few allies in an important region that has become increasingly hostile to the United States' interests. Perhaps most important, the deal would provide a tool for Colombia's development, drawing investment and helping the nation extricate itself from the mire of poverty that provides sustenance to drug trafficking and a bloody insurgency.
 Violence in Colombia is way too high. We remain very concerned over the killing of trade unionists by right-wing paramilitary groups. Last year, we advised Congress not to ratify the trade agreement until Colombia demonstrated progress in investigating the murders and prosecuting and convicting their perpetrators.
 Though by no means ideal, the situation today has improved. Thirty-nine trade unionists were killed last year, down from 197 in 2001, the year before the government of Alvaro Uribe came to office. Prosecutors obtained 36 convictions for the murder of trade unionists -- up from 11 in 2006 and only one in 2001. The budget of the prosecutor general's office has increased every year. Last year, it created a special unit to prosecute labor murders that has obtained 13 sentences.
 Pressure from the United States Congress has contributed to this progress, nudging the Colombian government with its offer that gains on the human rights front would lead to ratification of the trade agreement. Washington must sustain the pressure to ensure the energetic prosecution of crimes by paramilitary thugs and further reduce violence against union members. It has a powerful tool to do so: about $600 million a year in mostly military aid for Colombia to combat drug trafficking. The money must be approved by Congress every year.
 Rejecting or putting on ice the trade agreement would reduce the United States' credibility and leverage in Colombia and beyond. In a letter last year to Congressional Democrats, a group of Democratic heavyweights from the Clinton administration and previous Congresses wrote: ''Walking away from the Colombia trade agreement or postponing it until conditions are perfect would send an unambiguous signal to our friends and opponents alike that the United States is an unreliable partner without a vision for cooperation in our hemisphere.'' It would serve human rights in Colombia no good.
 Unfortunately, the agreement has become entangled in political jockeying between the White House and Democrats. The Democrats are right to demand assistance for American workers, and the Bush administration should work with Congress to expand the safety net for workers displaced by globalization. But this should not stop the Colombian trade pact from coming to fruition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); MURDER (87%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); DISMISSALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%); APPROVALS (63%)

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



298 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: How to Jointly Own a Home and Still Be Friends

BYLINE: By HILLARY CHURA

 BODY:
REAL estates prices have fallen almost everywhere. Interest rates have declined. It would seem a good time -- at least for those who resisted the temptations of easy credit in the last few years -- to buy a vacation home. 
 But lenders have toughened the rules on mortgages, making second-home purchases that much harder. 
 One option is teaming up with friends or relatives. The arrangement can prove a boon to the pocketbook as well as the relationship but -- as with any financial arrangement -- only if ground rules are established before the first check is written.
 The first issue everyone should agree on, according to real estate agents and buyers, is that owners should think of using a house not as a way to make a quick profit but for its intended purpose -- as a getaway. 
 Even then, there is much to negotiate.
 Daniel Shoemaker and his wife, Elizabeth, along with two other couples decided to buy a beach house in Ocean City, N.J., four years ago. All three families had wanted their own place, with a view, prime location, rides and the boardwalk nearby and walking distance to major attractions. But, individually, that was out of reach. So the Shoemakers, who live near Allentown, Pa., and the others, who live near Philadelphia, went in together on an $870,000 three-bedroom three-bath home.
 ''Everyone said we'd be choking each other within a year,'' Mr. Shoemaker said. ''There is give and take. Even when you know someone really well, it takes more adjustment than you think and more compromise than you expect. You're thrust into an environment that you have to talk to each other and make compromises all the time -- almost weekly -- whereas before you just saw each other a few times a year. You get more skilled at politics, more sensitive to other people.''
 Save for arguments early on (how to decorate, when to toss old bedspreads, whether phone service should be disconnected in the off-season), everything has gone smoothly, Mr. Shoemaker said. 
 One reason for the relative harmony is because many issues were hashed out ahead of time. The families agreed to keep the house for at least five years, rather than flip it, unless someone lost a job or ran into financial hardship; to split the costs three ways; that one person would pay the bills (and get an annual $500 credit in return); and the home would be rented from early June until the end of September, with most weeks at $3,350. Each owner could use the house every third week in the off-season free, but during peak times, they would have to rent it -- but at a 20 percent discount. 
 If joint ownership arrangements go well, investors can have a larger and better home than they could afford on their own. Though their time at the home is limited, many people with a vacation hideaway say they do not spend all that much time there -- regardless of whether they own it solo or with friends.
 Lawyers, real estate agents and mortgage experts say most people who buy vacation or investment property with someone else tend to do it with a relative. Arrangements generally turn out well, but there can be horror stories: one homeowner dies, and that person's portion of the investment goes to a co-owner rather than to the deceased owner's relatives; someone loses his stake in a $1 million home when a co-owner is sued; an owner loses his portion of the home when a co-owner defaults on the mortgage.
 The best way around many issues is to buy the property within a limited liability corporation, or L.L.C., many lawyers say. This legal entity is relatively inexpensive to set up and maintain while protecting owners' individual assets, the lawyers say. In case of lawsuit, only the property itself is at risk.
 Garrett Sutton, a lawyer and an author of ''Real Estate Loopholes: Secrets of Successful Real Estate Investing'' (Warner Business Books, 2003), recommends having an exit strategy from the beginning. 
 ''Not that many people do it at the start because they are optimistic,'' Mr. Sutton said. ''They think things will be fine. Initially, people frequently don't want to deal with these issues. But then, if things go sour and families start to argue and there is bad blood, it's very difficult to get a sell agreement signed.'' 
 Russell Hanf, a lawyer who lives in St. Helens, Ore., bought a vacation property in Rocky Point, Mexico, with law school friends. The $450,000 two-bedroom two-bath oceanfront condominium with a balcony should be finished by the end of the year. Each of the three partners has already paid the $60,000 first installment. The friends have nothing in writing now but plan to do so before the unit is finished. The document will include how much time each person can spend there, what happens when someone wants to sell, when the property will be rented and how expenses will be split.
 ''If you buy property with friends, you better do it with money you can afford to lose,'' Mr. Hanf said. ''You don't want to put all your eggs into a basket with friends in case it doesn't turn out well.'' 
 Buyers need to know -- and abide by -- their limits, said Neil Garfinkle, a Manhattan lawyer with offices in Long Island and California.
 ''When you buy a place to live, there is emotional baggage,'' Mr. Garfinkle said. ''I very strongly suggest that when you buy for investment, you set guidelines out such as 'I will spend this amount. After that, I'll walk away.' When you buy a vacation property, those rules apply even more.'' 
 Donald Vaughan, a real estate lawyer in Boston, said difficulties can arise after a few generations, when ownership is divided among children and grandchildren who may not be as close -- either emotionally or geographically -- as the original owners. The situation can lead to problems over how much money the property costs or how time is divided there. 
 Scott Yonehiro, a mortgage planner and senior board member at First Security Lending in Burbank, Calif., warned that resentment can build if one partner thinks another has invested less physically or financially. ''Remember that if emotions are left unchecked within a business agreement, very few people can enrage a person like a close family member or friend,'' Mr. Yonehiro said.
 Dean Trevelino and Genna Keller, longtime business partners, with their families bought a lot in Alys Beach, a new hurricane-resistant development of family villas and courtyard homes in Florida's Panhandle in 2006. The two families, both from Atlanta, are building a 2,500-square-foot three-bedroom three-bath home with a plunge pool in the courtyard. It should be complete next month and is large enough to accommodate both families simultaneously. Mr. Trevelino and Ms. Keller, who own a public relations firm, plan to stay there five to six times a year as well as use it for business purposes and rental income.
 Though the Trevelinos own a vacation home in the mountains of Georgia, they like Alys Beach as well. 
 ''This leverages both of our resources,'' Mr. Trevelino said, ''without having us burden ourselves financially.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dean Trevelino and Genna Keller with the house their families are building in Alys Beach, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN FRAME FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (55%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



299 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Even the Whales Have Their Predators: Ships

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: OFF THE GEORGIA COAST 

 BODY:
On a day so clear the ocean, from certain angles, is nothing but a field of glare, a team of spotters in a Twin Otter airplane flies a precise grid pattern, looking for North Atlantic right whales in the warm, shallow waters they use as their winter calving ground.
 The goal is not scientific but protective: to keep ships from hitting the slow-moving, endangered whales as they creep along their coast-hugging migratory route, passing in view of the last remaining undeveloped barrier islands that flank the southern Georgia coast. 
 A beeper notifies the spotters that seven adult whales have just been sighted by another team in the waters off Charleston, S.C. The news is not particularly comforting to Patricia Naessig, the right whale aerial survey coordinator for the Wildlife Trust, which operates such flights here under public contract.
 ''They still have a bit of a gantlet to pass,'' Ms. Naessig said over the headset she wore to communicate above the noise of the plane's engines. ''There's a huge amount of shipping interests in Charleston Harbor.''
 Ships are one of the two leading causes of unnatural death among right whales, and scientists have warned that the unnatural death of even one breeding female has the potential to tip the species toward extinction. From 2002 to 2006, there were 17 confirmed deaths by ship strike, at least six involving adult females.
 In an effort to stop the fatalities, the National Marine Fisheries Service has tried to impose speed limits on ships within 30 miles of port. But the White House has delayed approval of the rule, which is opposed by some shipping companies. 
 The White House Office of Management and Budget is supposed to review federal agencies' rule proposals within 90 days, with an optional 30-day extension. In the case of the right whale ship strike rule, it has been more than a year.
 ''Agencies are doing due diligence to develop a balanced rule that is effective in protecting endangered species,'' said Jane K. Lee, a spokeswoman for the budget office. Ms. Lee declined to explain the rule review process or answer questions about the 90-day deadline. 
 The North Atlantic right whale, which grows to more than 60 feet and is black with distinctive white markings, is the state marine mammal of Georgia and could be called America's own whale. The hunting of it in the 1800s bolstered the success of the country's whaling industry, but depleted the stock so severely that hunting it was banned in 1935. 
 The remaining whales, now rare, travel the Atlantic coast from the Bay of Fundy to Cape Cod to Florida, a habit that has made them vulnerable to ship strikes and another lethal problem, entanglement in fishing gear. 
 Particularly at risk are the females that come south starting in early winter to give birth and nurse. The mothers do not feed while calving or producing the thousands of gallons of milk it takes to nourish their young, and that leaves them in a weakened state for their return journey, beginning in early spring.
 It was only about 25 years ago, after dead calves began washing up on Southern beaches, that scientists learned that right whales used this area as a nursery, said Barb Zoodsma, right whale recovery program coordinator in the Southeast regional office of the fisheries service, an agency of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
 For nearly 20 years, the fisheries service has tried various methods of protecting the right whales, like recommending shipping-route changes and radioing ships to notify them of whale sightings. The aerial surveys off the Florida, Georgia and South Carolina coasts alone cost $1.5 million a year in taxpayer money.
 But the effect of the measures, especially those where compliance is voluntary, has been limited. A 2005 study showed that 95 percent of ships notified of whale sightings failed to slow down or skirt the area.
 After a three-year deliberative process that included the efforts of working groups, environmental and economic impact statements, and more than 5,000 public comments, the fisheries service proposed that during whale season, which varies by region, ships greater than 65 feet be limited to 10 knots as they near port. 
 Ship companies, port authorities, pilot associations, the Navy and even operators of whale watch tours have opposed the rule, saying that the permitted speed would be too low for safe steerage, that foreign vessels cannot be forced to follow American speed limits or that the restriction would cost too much. 
 The Georgia Ports Authority asked how the agency could ''responsibly justify putting the entire economic burden for compliance with speed restrictions on 100 percent of the oceangoing commercial fleet when, at best, it may be responsible for less than 50 percent of the collisions?''
 (The rule would exempt Navy and Coast Guard vessels, which are already supposed to take steps to protect the whales under the Endangered Species Act. Nor would it apply to smaller vessels, a source of growing concern among some experts. Whales have been fatally hit by recreational boats, and the experts fear that increasing development on the Georgia coast, including a proposal for an 800-boat marina that would be the state's largest, will only make calving season more hazardous.)
 The World Shipping Council, an organization of mostly foreign-owned ship operators, has protested that there is not enough proof that reducing speed also reduces collisions. The council offers its own models that show speeding up lowers the chances of a whale strike. 
 Environmentalists are skeptical.
 ''The argument they're using is, well, the faster they go, the faster they're in and out of the way,'' said Vicki Cornish, vice president for marine wildlife conservation at the Ocean Conservancy, which supports the rule. ''So let's put speeding cars in front of a school so they're in and out of the way before they hit a child.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: If Barb Zoodsma of the National Marine Fisheries Service sees any North Atlantic right whales, she'll try to get any ships in the area to reduce speed or alter course.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Another leading cause of death among the whales, as here, is entanglement in fishing gear.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WILDLIFE TRUST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE MAMMALS (92%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); WHALING (77%); BIOLOGY (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); MAMMALS (76%); FISHES (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (69%); FISHERIES (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); BUDGETS (68%); APPROVALS (64%); SPEED LIMITS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (95%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



300 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ABOUT NEW YORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Less Crime: No Reason To Shut Prisons

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER. 
E-mail: dwyer@nytimes.com

 BODY:
For nearly a decade, one of New York City's major exports -- criminals -- has been in decline, a result of less crime. In the alternative universe of state government, this is the textbook definition of catastrophe. A steady supply of criminals is the foundation of the economy of large swaths of New York State, which has 70 prisons that employ about 20,000 people as correction officers. 
 The prisons are also a source of political power to upstate Republicans because the inmates are counted as permanent residents when legislative districts are drawn -- even though they cannot vote and their actual homes may be hundreds of miles away. 
 In January, the State Department of Correctional Services said that because the state had 9,000 fewer inmates than it did in 1999, it would close four prisons that had space for 1,346. Another agency said the state should close five mostly unused juvenile facilities because even empty beds cost $140,000 to $200,000 each to maintain with staff and other services.
 These proposals drew roars across vast reaches of New York. Two weeks ago, the state's leading Republicans led a rally of prison guards on the steps of the Capitol. It amounted to a declaration of their confidence that evil would endure, a faith in human weakness that is perhaps warranted and inarguably useful.
 ''What happens the next time -- and there will be a next time -- we have a crack epidemic?'' asked Senator Michael F. Nozzolio of Seneca Falls, who is chairman of a committee that oversees crime and prisons, according to The Adirondack Daily Enterprise. ''They'll be double-bunked, they'll be stuffed into the medians, and we'll have another prison riot on our hands.''
 Senator Nozzolio was joined on the steps by the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno. The guards chanted his name. He did not let them down.
 This week, the Legislature and the governor agreed to keep the four unneeded prisons open at a cost of $33.5 million next year. If they are kept open much beyond that, they will need $30 million in capital repairs to keep them in shape, according to the corrections department. 
 The Legislature did agree to shut four of the five juvenile facilities, but kept open one, Great Valley, which is about 350 miles west of New York City. It is less than half full, but the state senator from the district, Catharine M. Young, was on the budget committee. (Pyramid in the Bronx, a sixth juvenile institution that the state wanted to close on the grounds that the facilities were inadequate, was also kept open.)
 The state went on a great surge of prison building during the 1980s and 1990s, continuing even after the rate of violent crime had crested. During the administration of Gov. George E. Pataki, the penalties for certain nonviolent crimes -- especially those involving drugs -- were eased. 
 ''With the reforms, there are fewer nonviolent inmates, and a greater percentage of violent inmates among those that remain,'' said Erik Kriss, a spokesman for the corrections department. ''That was an intentional policy under Governor Pataki.'' 
 Since 1999, the state says, the number of prisoners has declined by 13 percent, to 62,500 from 71,600. Three governors in a row -- Mr. Pataki, Eliot Spitzer and, now, David A. Paterson -- tried to close adult prisons. The minimum- and medium-security prisons were simply not being used as much. 
 Even so, prisons in New York are like military bases in other parts of the country, and closing them is just as difficult. In prison towns, schools, churches and Little Leagues all depend on the families that have built their livelihoods on the prison economy. Year after year, the prisons survived during the legislative budget negotiations, which are always conducted under information blackouts. 
 Last year, Governor Spitzer proposed that the Legislature set up a commission to study which prisons were needed, to make plans to help the communities where they would be closed and then to openly vote for an entire package. The Legislature declined. The question of prison closings returned to the back room. 
 ''It's really a jobs programs for economically depressed upstate communities,'' said Robert Gangi, the executive director of the Correctional Association of New York, a nonprofit organization that has oversight responsibilities for the prisons. ''But it's a jobs program that has a direct negative effect on people's lives. It's not like the manufacturer of widgets. It's based on the warehousing of human beings that has very negative effects.''
 Senator Bruno said that the decline in crime was a result of criminals being locked up -- and others argue that should crime rise anew, all the prison cells will be needed once again. The state said it has an ample reserve of emergency beds in case there is a sharp increase.
 For now, with tax revenues in decline and every agency being ordered to cut its budget, the prison machinery rolls on -- less crime or not.
 The peace dividend has been postponed until further notice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRECTIONS WORKERS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); VIOLENT CRIME (73%); RIOTS (70%); COCAINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



301 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: The Weak Dollar in Asia

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''Asian Inflation Begins to Sting U.S. Shoppers'' (front page, April 5): 
 I visited Bat Trang, Vietnam (the dateline of your article), last month and was shocked at the price of ceramics. While the goods are still cheap by American standards, still, with the high prices at the point of manufacture, it was easy to imagine that my mom would see a significant increase in the price for the same vase at a Target store.
 As an expatriate living in Hanoi, I am acutely affected by both inflation and the falling dollar. Like many of my colleagues working abroad, I get paid in American dollars only to exchange them at an unattractive exchange rate to purchase goods with dong at inflationary prices. 
 While a couple of years ago dollars were the preferred currency, now there is what amounts to an unofficial tax on use of the dollar, with merchants constantly hedging their bets by adding on to the price. 
 In fact, many stores that once priced their goods in dollars have converted to the dong. As the government considers measures to cut loose from the falling currency, shops often price in both, passing on the costs of inflation and the weakening dollar to the consumer.
 Most of the mail I receive these days is price change notifications, given that the costs of goods are subject to change on a daily basis and often priced in dollars. 
 Hillary Ellis Hanoi, Vietnam, April 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); RETAILERS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (93%); ASIA (92%); VIETNAM (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



302 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Restaurants Lead to Kitchens and to Other Rooms

BYLINE: By JUSTON JONES

 BODY:
BARBARA SMITH, better known as B. Smith, the founder and chief creative officer of B. Smith Enterprises, says that no matter where she is or what she is doing, she is on the lookout for the next trend. Her husband, Dan Gasby, the company's chairman, says her sense of what will connect with a wide audience is pivotal to the success of their businesses. 
 With her smile imprinted on all sorts of things from biscuits to shower curtains, Ms. Smith, 58, has a familiar face. She is banking on that familiarity as she expands from restaurants and media operations into new ventures, including a furniture line and jewelry. 
 On a recent visit, she discussed her spring 2008 furniture collection that is making its debut this month, a new cookbook being published in the fall and the possibility of her company's teaming up with Wal-Mart. Following are excerpts from the conversation: 
 Q.You entered the furniture business last year. How is that going?
 A. We've already had three collections. And we have a new one coming out this month for spring '08. It has totally different fabrics. New bodies. New lamps, floral arrangements and art that will be part of the B. Smith Collection. And mirrors, too.
 Q.Do you work with a particular furniture company?
 A. Yes. I'm with Clayton Marcus, which is owned by Rowe Fine Furniture. 
 In my career, I've decorated three restaurants and a few apartments and our home. So this has been a natural progression from what I've been doing. For instance, you will see a lot of the plates and dessert things in the B. Smith Collection in my restaurants, so it's a carry-over. It was a natural progression for me to take what I had learned in the restaurants -- a restaurant is just a big dining room -- and share it: the way we live, and the way we want to live, but elegantly. 
 Q.Do you have any sales figures for the first year?
 A. We don't have those numbers because the fiscal year hasn't closed yet. But if it wasn't doing well, we wouldn't have gone into the new spring collection.
 Q.What is challenging about furniture?
 A. It's more difficult than anything else that I do because it's a big investment for people when they buy furniture. They have to love it, and they're going to live with it for a long time. 
 Q.You recently spoke at Wal-Mart in Bentonville, Ark. Are you teaming up with Wal-Mart?
 A. We are in discussions with Wal-Mart in a nonhousewares category.
 Q.What is nonhousewares?
 A. It could be food. It could be jewelry. There are lots of areas. It could be cosmetics. 
 We are growing our brand. It is a natural progression for me to go into food, to go into health care, beauty, fashion. 
 Q.You are already in food with your restaurants. How would this be different?
 A. We're not yet in packaged foods or frozen foods. So there are opportunities there. Also, I write cookbooks, so I can tell people how to create recipes. They can buy B. Smith serve ware at Bed, Bath & Beyond to serve them in. And they can dress the table; we have some new placemats and napkins coming out this month.
 Q.But you haven't written a cookbook in quite a while. Are you suffering from writer's block?
 A. Well, I'm working on a new one right now, ''Southern Cooking From A to Z.'' It's going to be published this fall. 
 Q.Of your Bed, Bath & Beyond products, what is the biggest seller?
 A. A swivel serve-ware piece. The serve ware in general does well because they have a bridal registry that helps generate sales. It's very affordable; it's functional; it goes from microwave oven to table. We have 143 individual items at Bed, Bath alone.
 Q.Do you use the products in your home?
 A. Absolutely!
 Q.Your businesses are upscale. Your candles sell for $20 at Bed, Bath & Beyond, not for $5 at a discount chain. Do you worry about affordability?
 A. I think my consumer, she wants a brand name she can trust. I think people find that it's not out of reach. 
 Q.Many economists say we are teetering on recession if one isn't already under way. Most of your businesses rely on consumers' discretionary spending. Are you feeling pinched?
 A. What works for us is that we're moderately priced across the line. The products at Bed, Bath & Beyond are affordable enough that $29.99 is not breaking the bank. But I would say we are feeling some effects of the slowdown in the restaurants.
 Q.When Martha Stewart left the scene for several months a few years ago, professionals with your expertise were in great demand. Has that receded?
 A. I think it has remained constant. People who follow me follow Martha. And people who follow Martha follow me. I think that says a lot about what we do. I have just continued on my path of growing my businesses.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Barbara Smith (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); TRENDS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (69%); COSMETICS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



303 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Losing Our Will

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
I wonder what the answers would be if each American asked himself or herself the question: ''How is the war in Iraq helping me?''
 While the U.S. government continues to pour precious human treasure and vast financial resources into this ugly war without end, it is all but ignoring deeply entrenched problems that are weakening the country here at home.
 On the same day that President Bush was announcing an indefinite suspension of troop withdrawals from Iraq, the New York Times columnist David Leonhardt was telling us a sad story about how the middle class has fared during the Bush years. 
 The economic boom so highly touted by the president and his supporters ''was, for most Americans,'' said Mr. Leonhardt, ''nothing of the sort.'' Despite the sustained expansion of the past few years, the middle class -- for the first time on record -- failed to grow with the economy.
 And now, of course, we're sinking into a nasty recession.
 The U.S., once the greatest can-do country on the planet, now can't seem to do anything right. The great middle class has maxed out its credit cards and drained dangerous amounts of equity from family homes. No one can seem to figure out how to generate the growth in good-paying jobs that is the only legitimate way of putting strapped families back on their feet.
 The nation's infrastructure is aging and in many places decrepit. Rebuilding it would be an important source of job creation, but nothing on the scale that is needed is in sight. To get a sense of how important an issue this is, consider New Orleans.
 The historian Douglas Brinkley, who lives in New Orleans, has written: ''What people didn't yet fully comprehend was that the overall disaster, the sinking of New Orleans, was a man-made debacle, resulting from poorly designed levees and floodwalls.''
 We could have saved the victims of the Hurricane Katrina catastrophe, but we didn't. And now, more than 2 1/2 years after the tragedy, we are still unable to lift the stricken city off its knees.
 Other nations can provide health care for everyone. The United States cannot. In an era in which a college degree is becoming a prerequisite for a middle-class quality of life, we are having big trouble getting our kids through high school. And despite being the wealthiest of all nations, nearly 10 percent of Americans are resorting to food stamps to maintain an adequate diet, and 4 in every 10 American children are growing up in families that are poor or near-poor.
 The U.S. seems almost paralyzed, mesmerized by Iraq and unable to generate the energy or the will to handle the myriad problems festering at home. The war will eventually cost a staggering $3 trillion or more, according to the Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz. When he was asked on ''Democracy Now!'' about who is profiting from the war, he said the two big gainers were the oil companies and the defense contractors.
 This is the pathetic state of affairs in the U.S. as we approach the end of the first decade of the 21st century. Whatever happened to the dynamic country that flexed its muscles after World War II and gave us the G.I. Bill, the Marshall Plan, the United Nations (in a quest for peace, not war), the interstate highway system, the civil rights movement, the women's movement, the finest higher education system the world has known, and a standard of living that was the envy of all?
 America's commanding general in Iraq, David Petraeus, and our ambassador to Baghdad, Ryan Crocker, went up to Capitol Hill this week but were unable to give any real answers as to when the U.S. might be able to disengage, or when a corner might be turned, or when a faint, flickering hopeful light might be glimpsed at the end of the long, horrific Iraqi tunnel.
 A country that used to act like Babe Ruth now swings like a minor-leaguer. The all-American can-do philosophy has been smothered by the hapless can't-do performances of the people who have been in charge for the past several years. It's both tragic and embarrassing.
 The war in Iraq stands like a boulder in the road, blocking progress on so many other important issues that are crucial to our viability as a society. We've seen this before. Lyndon Johnson's Great Society, which included the war on poverty, was crippled by the war in Vietnam.
 On the evening of April 4, 1967, one year to the day before he was assassinated, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. went into Riverside Church in Manhattan and said of the war in Vietnam: ''This madness must cease.''
 Forty-one years later, we can still hear the echo of Dr. King's call. The only sane response is: ''Amen.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); HISTORY (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); WRITERS (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); HURRICANE KATRINA (69%); HURRICANES (67%); NATURAL DISASTERS (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



304 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Some Tempered Reassurances From Paulson

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. sought Friday to assure the finance ministers and central bankers of the world's wealthiest countries that the American economic picture could improve later this year and that the administration was doing all it could to hasten the recovery.
 But Mr. Paulson, speaking at a news conference Friday evening after meeting with the ministers during the day, suggested that the slump had yet to run its course and that ''the risks are to the downside.'' 
 He said the ministers generally supported the actions the administration and the Federal Reserve had taken in recent months, including the lowering of interest rates, the Fed's intervention to prevent the bankruptcy of Bear Stearns and the $150 billion package to stimulate the economy enacted earlier this year.
 ''I explained that we're watching this very closely,'' Mr. Paulson said, adding that the housing bubble of the last several years had been ''unsustainable'' and that the decline in housing prices was ''not pleasant'' but ''what needs to happen'' for recovery to take place.
 He said he told his counterparts that checks from the stimulus package would go out in May and June and that they would add 500,000 to 600,000 jobs to the economy. He said that the federal government was helping more than a million homeowners keep their homes.
 ''The way this is structured, we expect this to make a difference,'' he said, referring to the stimulus checks. The administration was not prepared to undertake any further major interventions, like government expenditures in the housing market, to protect homeowners, he said.
 The secretary's comments came at the opening this weekend of the annual spring meetings of the world's finance ministers and central bankers in Washington. Before those larger meetings, there is always a meeting of the top finance and banking officials from Europe, Japan, Canada and the United States in the so-called Group of 7.
 In a joint statement, the Group of 7 ministers issued many of their customary pronouncements on promoting stability and growth, but this time the statement highlighted worries about ''sharp fluctuations in major currencies'' and expressed concerns about the ''implications for economic and financial stability.''
 There was no reference to any country's intervening in the currency markets to stabilize the fluctuations, however, and no reference to whether the dollar's recent slide against the euro had been too large, a trend that has worried many in Europe because it has made their exports more expensive and imports cheaper.
 As expected, the Group of 7 ministers also embraced a lengthy report by a team of financial experts assembled by the worldwide group known as the Financial Stability Forum, which called more than a year ago for a re-examination of regulatory practices by banks and financial institutions.
 In a joint statement, the Group of 7 finance ministers endorsed the report and called for banks and financial firms to ''promptly disclose'' their balance sheets -- including their exposure to risky securities, the market value of these securities and the risks of declining values.
 In addition, the ministers called on firms to strengthen ''risk management'' practices by building up their capital and cash reserves to guard against losses in the marketplace. More ''prudential oversight'' of banks was called for, but no specific proposals were offered on how the oversight or increased disclosure would occur.
 ''This will be implemented in different countries in different ways,'' Mr. Paulson said.
 He also said ''there was a universal feeling in that room'' that all would cooperate to do ''whatever it took to protect'' global financial systems. 
 Asked how concerned the Europeans, Japanese and Canadians were that the American economy might drag down the rest of the world, Mr. Paulson referred to the theory known as decoupling, which holds that other countries might be immune from an American slump.
 ''No one around that table believes in decoupling,'' Mr. Paulson said. He added that they were riveted by a presentation by Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, to the effect that the American economy might be in a recession, which is what he said last week in Congressional testimony.
 ''There's no doubt that when Ben Bernanke was talking about the economy, I didn't see anybody dozing off,'' Mr. Paulson said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry M. Paulson Jr., right, and Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, in Washington Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALD HERBERT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CURRENCIES (84%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); TRENDS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); EURO (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); INTEREST RATES (55%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



305 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: 8 Palestinians Are Killed in Gaza, Including 2 Youths

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER. 
Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
At least five Palestinians were killed Friday by Israeli tank and gun fire in central Gaza, two of them boys ages 12 and 13, local Palestinian hospital officials said. Three more Palestinians, all militants from Hamas, were killed in Israeli airstrikes.
 Also Friday, United Nations officials said that most of the roadblocks recently removed by Israel in the West Bank, in line with promises made to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, were of minimal or no significance in improving Palestinians' ability to move around. 
 Israeli forces entered the area east of the Bureij refugee camp in central Gaza early on Friday morning. The military said the goal of the operation was ''to harm the terrorist infrastructure'' and to distance Palestinian militants from the border fence. 
 An Israeli Army spokeswoman, speaking on condition of anonymity under army rules, said that soldiers had come under heavy mortar and sniper fire and clashed with local gunmen. She said that she had no information about the youths having been killed, but that if children were in the area, they would have been at risk. 
 A medical official at the Aksa Martyrs' Hospital in central Gaza said that 18 civilians and 2 fighters were among the wounded. 
 The Israeli incursion came after militants from Gaza broke through the fence on Wednesday and attacked the Nahal Oz fuel depot, the transfer point from which all fuel is piped from Israel into Gaza. Two Israeli civilians employed by the company that supplies the fuel were killed in the attack. Fuel deliveries into Gaza were temporarily halted, but were expected to resume after the weekend.
 Israel holds Hamas responsible for the attack, since it controls Gaza, although three smaller groups claimed joint responsibility. Israel's prime minister, Ehud Olmert, told a gathering of his supporters on Thursday that Hamas ''will not be able to continue to act against Israel's citizens as it acts today.'' He would not elaborate on the cryptic threat but added, ''The state of Israel will stand behind the things that I said.'' 
 Regarding the roadblocks in the West Bank, the United States government announced in late March that Israel had agreed to remove about 50 physical obstacles. The announcement came as Ms. Rice wound up another visit to the region as part of her attempt to spur on Israeli-Palestinian peace efforts. 
 The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, which closely tracks Palestinians' movements and access, said that Israel had said it removed 61 obstacles this month of more than 500 that dot the West Bank. 
 Of those, the United Nations agency said, 9 removals had a ''minimal effect,'' meaning that access to a small piece of land had opened to a very limited number of people, like one family; 17 were earth mounds whose removal had ''no significance,'' either because they were in a closed military area that Palestinians were unable to enter or because an alternative route was available nearby; and 13 were removed in ''questionable circumstances,'' with Palestinians saying the obstacles had been put up immediately before being removed. 
 The agency's analysis was based on fieldwork, using information about the locations that was provided by the Israelis. At 11 of the sites, the agency said, there was no evidence of an earth mound or of its removal. Field workers identified only five obstacles from the agency's own maps that had been removed, and five more that had been removed and then put back. They also identified one new obstacle.
 The Americans and Palestinians are eager for Israel to ease restrictions on movement in the West Bank to improve Palestinian economic and living conditions. Israel is reluctant to make any major changes, saying that the army roadblocks and checkpoints are essential for preventing attacks on its citizens. Ms. Rice said in March that the United States wanted to be ''more systematic'' than in the past in monitoring and verifying improvements promised by the Israelis and Palestinians. 
 Asked about the United Nations' findings, Micaela Schweitzer-Bluhm, a spokeswoman for the United States Consulate in Jerusalem, said, ''The United States government is continuing to examine the situation on the ground and to consult with both parties.''
 Israeli officials were not immediately available for comment. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A wounded Palestinian boy lay on the floor of a hospital in the Gaza Strip on Friday after Israeli forces clashed with gunmen near the Bureij refugee camp in central Gaza.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ABID KATIB/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); HAMAS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); REFUGEES (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (70%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); PEACE PROCESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (58%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); EHUD OLMERT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



306 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Earnings Drop, Raising Broader Fears

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON and LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
General Electric, which is widely viewed as a bellwether for the economy because of its diverse operations, stunned Wall Street on Friday by reporting sharply disappointing results for the first quarter and creating widespread concern about the outlook for other companies. 
 The inability of G.E. to sidestep current market forces underscores just how broadly the credit crisis is spreading through the economy. The company, which has businesses as varied as finance and jet engines, has normally been able to manage weakness in any given sector, making its surprise all the more worrisome.
 The weakening outlook for company profits and a poor consumer confidence report pushed the Dow Jones industrial average down by 256 points, about 2 percent, and the other major indexes had similar declines. G.E.'s stock fell 13 percent, its biggest one-day loss in two decades. 
 ''G.E.'s results are telling us that we may have more bad news and worse than expected in the economy,'' said Richard Tortoriello, an analyst who follows G.E. for Standard & Poor's Equity Research. G.E. also reduced its full-year profit projections, telling investors to expect little or no earnings growth in 2008. 
 Investors have already seen an average profit decline of 20 percent from the 32 companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index that have reported their first-quarter earnings, and they are particularly worried about more unpleasant news from the financial industry. Companies like Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase will report their results next week, followed by numerous other companies. 
 The financial sector, which makes up nearly 20 percent of the companies in the S.& P. 500, is dragging down the overall market, analysts say, and the credit crisis now threatens other types of companies. 
 About 160 companies from the index are expected to report over the next two weeks, and analysts say that with the exception of the energy sector, investors should be braced for more bad news. 
 ''If you think of all the banks that were in trouble last quarter, that's likely to move into the real economy now,'' said Tobias M. Levkovich, chief United States equity strategist at Citi Investment Research.
 Financial stocks are likely to be among the biggest disappointments. Analysts are predicting they will report sharply lower first-quarter earnings, an estimated 64 percent below the same period of 2007, according to Thomson Financial Services. Lehman Brothers, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley have already reported their earnings, and they all took write-downs on their investments. In total, financial institutions have written down more than $230 billion in mortgage loans and other assets since the credit crisis began.
 But defaults on other sorts of consumer loans, like credit card and auto debt, have been soaring since late last year, and those loan losses may surprise investors, analysts said.
 If G.E. is any guide, even the unsuspecting may be caught up in the credit crisis. G.E. was once a large subprime mortgage lender but sold that business in October.
 On Friday, the company reported net income of $4.3 billion for the quarter, or 43 cents a share, down from $4.57 billion, or 44 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. Analysts had been expecting about 51 cents a share in net earnings, and the company had projected profit of 50 to 53 cents a share. Its stock finished down $4.70, at $32.05.
 While the company continued to post strong results in areas like its global infrastructure business, aircraft engines and energy equipment, the performance of its financial services business pulled down profits. The company also had difficulty smoothing its results through various asset sales, including real estate, and consumers were buying fewer of its famous appliances.
 ''It does show how the credit turmoil extends out to very well-managed companies like G.E.,'' said Deane M. Dray, an analyst with Goldman Sachs who downgraded the stock to neutral on Friday because of the sizable earnings miss. 
 While some of the weakness in demand was predictable, analysts say what particularly troubled them was management's admission that it had been surprised by the severity of the credit crisis, having reassured analysts just a few weeks ago that it expected to meet earnings expectations for the quarter. 
 ''We had planned for a difficult environment,'' Jeffrey R. Immelt, the chairman and chief executive, told investors Friday morning. ''We had planned for an environment that was going to be challenging, but what I would say is kind of late in the quarter, particularly after the Bear Stearns event, we experienced an extraordinary disruption in our ability to complete asset sales and incurred marks of impairments.'' 
 Other companies, especially those with financial units that have not been in the public eye, may similarly startle investors, analysts said. 
 ''What other companies might have the same financial issues that the market hasn't recognized yet?'' asked Timothy M. Ghriskey, who oversees investments at Solaris Asset Management, an investment management group in Bedford Hills, N.Y., that does not own shares in G.E.
 Wall Street has, in general, been overly optimistic about earnings over the last two quarters, although analysts have lowered their estimates in the last three months. But there is a growing divergence between what analysts think will happen with company earnings and the more negative outlook by economists, says a recent Goldman Sachs report. 
 The Goldman report predicted that many companies will lower their earnings estimates for the year during their coming first-quarter earnings calls -- saying this would be a ''profit recession'' along with an ''economic recession.'' 
 In fact, companies' earnings typically drop more than the gross domestic product during recessions, said Robert Barbera, chief economist at ITG, an investment and research firm. 
 ''Corporate profits exaggerate economic momentum,'' Mr. Barbera said. ''There's a violence to profit performance.'' 
 Consumer discretionary spending is already weakening. While retail companies report their earnings later than other industries, spending at discount stores like TJ Maxx and Aeropostale will be closely watched. Luxury retailers have benefited from foreign sales. At Tiffany & Company, for example, half of all sales are in stores abroad, and 14 percent of all sales within the United States come from foreign tourists, said Brian J. Tunick, a retail analyst at JPMorgan Securities.
 But United States companies may not be able to count on the rest of the world for all their earnings growth. About two-thirds of the money earned abroad by American companies is made in Europe, said Mr. Levkovich, the Citi analyst, and the housing market in several European countries has started to suffer.
 It is not only the consumer spending cutback that is expected to hurt profits. As companies produce fewer products, many of the goods they create will become more expensive per unit. Companies are already reducing the amount of goods they keep in inventories, which adds to expenses. And, of course, rising fuel costs harm all companies that ship goods.
 While analysts say they were surprised by G.E.'s earnings announcement, some say the company's difficulties are not all that shocking, given its range of businesses that tend to mirror the ups and downs of the economy. 
 ''G.E. isn't immune from that,'' said Daniel Rosenblatt of Marble Harbor Investment Counsel in Boston, which owns the stock. ''It's hard to get away from the really big macrotrends.'' 

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: WEAKNESS SEEN IN FIRST QUARTER (Sources: Thomson Financial, ITG) (pg. A16) Graphs showing lower earnings at General Electric. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (62%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (85%); GEC (LSE) (85%); GE (SWX) (85%); GE (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (62%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008



307 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET VALUES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Woes Here. Opportunity Elsewhere.

BYLINE: By CONRAD de AENLLE

 BODY:
A CRUCIAL argument for investing abroad is that if the United States suffers a downturn, the vigorous march that other economies are making from the third world to the first will keep them and their stock markets growing stoutly. The buzzword is ''decoupling.''
 But it has not worked out that way lately. As the United States sinks toward or through recession, stocks are dropping more overseas than here, with the heaviest declines coming in markets like China and India, which are thought to be the biggest beneficiaries of decoupling. 
Jamie Doyle, a manager of international portfolios for Causeway Capital Management, advises against giving up on the decoupling concept or on foreign stocks generally, however. When he looks at the comparative weakness of European and Asian stocks this year, in fact, he wonders whether investors have checked their brains at the border.
 ''It's the craziest thing about the global equity markets this year,'' considering that ''all the problems are emanating from the United States,'' he said. The discrepancy is ''something of a mystery'' to him, and he finds it a buying opportunity.
 Mr. Doyle suggests seeking out foreign companies with minimal exposure to the American economy, but also companies whose dependence on American consumers is so obvious that the throng of opportunistic sellers would have sent prices well below fair value.
 AN example of the first is TNT, the privatized Dutch postal service. The stock has tumbled, leaving it trading at roughly 9 times earnings and with a 4 percent dividend yield.
 Two companies that are particularly susceptible to an American slowdown, but whose stocks he thinks have been treated far too harshly, are Honda and HSBC.
 Honda, the Japanese carmaker, has been hit by weakness in consumer spending, and by strength in the yen, but the company keeps gaining market share in the United States, Mr. Doyle said.
 As for HSBC, he noted that it is one of the most diversified institutions, geographically and by business segment, and it trades at about 10 times earnings and yields about 5 percent.
 John Maxwell, co-manager of the Ivy International Core fund, offered an eclectic list of foreign stocks that he considered bargains, including Nestle, the world's largest food producer; Informa, the British consulting and media firm; Svenska Cellulose, a Swedish paper producer; and the Japanese conglomerate Mitsubishi Electric.
 Nestle derives 40 percent of its sales from emerging markets, making it a safe decoupling blue chip. Svenska Cellulose, which recently bought some of Procter & Gamble's European operations, is a restructuring play.
 Mr. Maxwell finds Informa just plain cheap. The company continues to meet earnings estimates, yet the stock has fallen close to 30 percent this year, leaving it trading at 9 times earnings.
 The appeal of Mitsubishi is that it is a Japanese company run like a Western one, with attention paid to cash flow and productivity. ''The thing that separates them from the other guys is they're disciplined on the financial front,'' he said.
 Charles de Lardemelle, chief investment officer of International Value Advisers, says he has no trouble identifying bargains overseas, including many that are well insulated from weakness in the United States, either because they do little business there or because their products are must-haves.
 One favorite is the French drug maker Sanofi-Aventis, which Mr. de Lardemelle said had become so cheap that the price assumes the company will introduce no significant drugs in the next three or four years.
 Two other choices are Asian phone companies, NTT DoCoMo in Japan and SK Telecom in Korea. He described them as ''cash machines that are No. 1 in their industry.''
 He, too, is baffled by the weakness overseas, and he agreed with Mr. Doyle that sellers of international stocks need to adjust their thinking.
 ''It's the U.S. economy that's in the worst possible shape looking out 6 to 18 months,'' Mr. de Lardemelle said, ''yet international markets have fallen much more.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); DIVIDENDS (77%); MARKET SHARE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); PAPER MILLS (60%); PAPER MFG (60%)

COMPANY: NESTLE SA (52%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

TICKER: NESN (SWX) (52%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (52%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



308 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET CHECKING IN; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Calibrating a Hotel For the Luxury Market

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
WHEN the Mark Hotel, at 77th Street and Madison Avenue in Manhattan, reopens later this year after an extensive renovation, rooms will start at around $1,000 a night. 
 Don't expect to get a discount.
 James Sherwin, who recently took the job of general manager, said one of his goals would be to keep prices from slipping, even in slack periods. 
 ''In my day, you had your rate, and if the client couldn't pay it, they didn't come, and that was it,'' Mr. Sherwin said. Today, hotels are likely to lower prices whenever demand softens. But by doing that, he said, ''you kill the building, cook the staff, and potentially take in people who aren't necessarily the caliber that the business is based on.''
 In short, he said, ''I'm a great believer in, if necessary, letting the occupancy drop a bit, but keeping your rates as you wish.'' 
 If that sounds optimistic in an economy with soft spots, Mr. Sherwin's employers aren't worried.
 ''I don't expect a lot of vacancies,'' said Izak Senbahar, who owns the Mark with Simon Elias, his business partner in the Alexico Group.
 Hotels like the Mark, he says, attract as many foreign as American customers. ''It's the global economy, not the local economy, that matters,'' Mr. Senbahar said.
 In fact, he added, Manhattan is still ripe for luxury hotel development. ''Anytime you see an area with 75 percent occupancy, you want to build. And in Manhattan, the occupancy rate has been about 85 percent,'' he said. 
 If anything, he says, there's a shortage of luxury hotels in Manhattan, ''because it is so hard to build here.''
 Bjorn Hanson, who tracks the hotel industry for PricewaterhouseCoopers, agreed. He said that about 20 hotels were scheduled to open in Manhattan in 2008.
 ''They're either very small, or they're not at the price point the Mark will be at,'' he said.
 As a result, he said, ''while three years ago might have been even better, it is still a very positive time to open a hotel in Manhattan, especially at the high end.''
 But just in case demand for hotel rooms declines, Mr. Senbahar and Mr. Elias believe that they have a secret weapon: Mr. Sherwin, who was the executive manager of the Carlyle Hotel, at 76th Street and Madison Avenue, for most of the 1990s.
 ''Certainly anyone paying the kind of prices we are commanding is going to demand services at the highest level,'' Mr. Elias said. 
 ''James's forte is how to treat V.I.P.'s, how to make people's lives easier,'' Mr. Senbahar said. ''People are willing to spend the money, but you've got to make it stress-free for them,'' he said. ''That's basically the game plan.''
 When he left his job at the Carlyle in 2001 to open a consulting firm, Mr. Sherwin continued to field requests from some of that hotel's longtime customers, who, he said, relied on him to get everything ready for their stay. ''If you deal with someone like myself, one call does everything,'' he said. 
 Mr. Sherwin, who trained in England, is 56. Wearing Savile Row suits and Turnbull & Asser dress shirts, he dispenses pearls of wisdom about how hotels should treat their guests.
 Employees should never respond to ''thank you'' with ''it's my pleasure,'' Mr. Sherwin said. Guests, he explained, don't care if ''it's your pleasure.''
 ''It's their pleasure that matters,'' he added.
 He said he would train the hotel's staff to be cordial, but not overly familiar. ''It's great to remember everyone's name,'' he said. ''But there are times when 'sir' or 'madam' is absolutely fine.'' 
 And he will remind the staff never to ask a guest, ''Would you like another drink?'' The word ''another,'' he said, can make a person feel self-conscious about drinking.
 The hotel won't have to manage its own dining room because it has formed a partnership with Sant Ambroeus, an Italian restaurant on Madison Avenue, which will open a branch inside the hotel. (Like the rest of the hotel, the restaurant is being designed by Jacques Grange.)
 Mr. Sherwin seemed relieved that he hadn't taken a job at a hotel where catering is a large part of the business. ''Running a full-on food and beverage operation is a lot of work, and it can run off with your profits,'' he said. 
 There will be room service, and that's enough of a responsibility. ''People ask why room service is so expensive,'' he said. ''One reason is that you have to have a full crew on hand so if it starts to rain and suddenly everybody calls, you're covered.'' 
 In addition to 118 hotel suites, the building contains 42 co-op apartments. Prices range from $2 million to $60 million (for a 10,000-square-foot duplex penthouse).
 Mr. Senbahar said that the hybrid building was a way of ''diversifying the risk.'' But he said both the co-ops and the hotel had to make sense as businesses. 
 ''Otherwise,'' he said, ''we would have done one or the other.''
 Hotel guests and co-op owners will share the building's lobby. The owners will have access to hotel services when they are in town, and hotel employees to provide security when they are away. ''It's a very good way for people who don't want the responsibility of having their own staff,'' Mr. Sherwin said. 
 Co-op owners can choose to rent out their suites through the hotel when they're not in residence. The owner will receive 60 percent of the revenue; the hotel, 40 percent.
 Mr. Sherwin said his main responsibility right now was hiring the hotel's 180 or so employees, including some whose jobs would have been eliminated at other establishments. ''Even though you can run your whole life from your cellphone,'' he said, ''we're going to have the proper number of people on the switchboard.''
 He says he isn't raiding the Carlyle for employees -- ''one wants to behave as immaculately as one can.'' But it's natural, he said, that some of his former colleagues might be calling him. ''Why wouldn't they think to be part of something new?'' he said. ''It is America.''
 And the Mark is just a block away from the Carlyle. ''People like a short move,'' he said, ''because we're all creatures of habit.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 20, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The ''Checking In'' article on the Square Feet page last Sunday about the Mark Hotel, at 77th Street and Madison Avenue, carried an incorrect picture credit. Only the photograph of James Sherwin was by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times; the other two photos were courtesy of the Mark Hotel.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James Sherwin, left, in a model room at the Mark Hotel, at 77th Street and Madison Avenue in Manhattan. The hotel will have 118 hotel suites and 42 co-op apartments. Hotel guests and co-op owners will share the lobby, below. Rooms will start at about $1,000 a night. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LUXURY GOODS (86%); LODGING (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (65%)

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



309 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; FISHING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: Party Boats Struggle With a Double Threat

BYLINE: By TIM WACKER

DATELINE: Greenport, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 FROM the perspective of the party-boat business, Dave Brennan has had it pretty good.
 His boat, the 90-foot Peconic Star II, is docked here 20 minutes from some of the area's best summer flounder fishing, and the Long Island Rail Road stops well within cooler-carrying range of his 150-passenger boat.
 So why, after some 20 years, is he thinking it might be time to get out of the business? 
 ''It's the fuel and the fishing regulations,'' Mr. Brennan said. ''Between the two of them, we're going to have a rough season this year. There's less time to go fishing, and it's going to cost us a lot more when we do go.''
 Party boats, a seaside staple, are under siege from Belmar, N.J., to Montauk Point, N.Y., say Mr. Brennan and others in the business. With diesel fuel prices bumping past $4 a gallon in both states and new federal limits on the most prized catch -- summer flounder, or fluke -- boat owners say it is getting too pricey to take people fishing.
 ''If things don't change soon, there are going to be a lot of boats out of business,'' said Capt. Paul Forsberg, owner of the Viking Fleet, five party boats and ferries based in Montauk.
 Because of higher fuel costs, party boats this year are charging on average $40 to $70 a person for half-day, three-quarter-day or full-day fishing trips. That is up 10 to 20 percent over last year, when diesel fuel cost $2.50 to $3 a gallon, Mr. Brennan said. Boats can burn up to 50 gallons an hour.
 Making matters worse this year, Mr. Brennan and Mr. Forsberg say, efforts to bolster the fluke population have made it harder to take legal fish home.
 In New Jersey, a keeper summer flounder must be 18 inches, up one inch over last year and 1.5 inches since 2006. In New York, fluke must be 20.5 inches, up an inch over last year and 2.5 inches since 2006. New York's fluke-fishing season has also been shortened by 16 days over last year.
 Federal mandates to help fluke recover from overfishing prompted the restrictions. The stocks have rebounded, but not enough to meet federal limits. Now it is party boats that are becoming scarce, said Alan Shinn, owner of two boats in Belmar.
 The number of party boats docked at the Belmar boat basin has dropped to six from nine in the past two years, Mr. Shinn said. He said he is thinking of selling one boat, the Royal Ms. Belmar, because it is losing money and he can charge only so much for a half-day of fishing.
 ''If we overprice things, it could price us right out of business,'' he said. ''People have to pay their bills, they don't have to go fishing.''
 This season does not look much brighter for commercial fishermen. Jim Lovgren, owner of a fishing boat and a member of the Point Pleasant Fishermen's Dock Cooperative in New Jersey, said commercial fishermen were also suffering from government fishing restrictions and rising fuel prices.
 ''It's costing us about $500 a day more this year than last to go fishing,'' he said of fuel expenses.
 Some relief may come in New York; efforts are under way in the State Legislature to give boat owners fuel tax rebates, said Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele Jr., Republican of Sag Harbor. The state tax on diesel is 28.9 cents a gallon. Such a rebate, which is available to boats in New Jersey, would cost New York about $2 million, Mr. Thiele said.
 But, he said, the state economy could lose much more than that in revenue, since hotels, restaurants, bait shops and coffee shops would suffer if party boat fishermen stopped coming to town.
 If that happens, Mr. Brennan said, there may be a new business coming in: boat sales.
 ''You know anybody who wants a 100-passenger boat?'' he said with a half-serious tone. ''I don't know. I may be able to hang on this summer, but I know a lot of guys that are thinking of getting out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SEASIDE STAPLE: The Ocean Explorer, a party boat in Belmar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (88%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); FERRIES (78%); AGRICULTURE FORESTRY & FISHING LAW (77%); FINFISH FISHING (77%); DIESEL FUEL (75%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (72%); FISHERIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



310 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; HOME FRONT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Behind the Builder, A Skilled Coordinator

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED. 
E-mail: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN most people think of construction jobs, they think of workers erecting steel beams, installing pipes and operating bulldozers and cranes.
 They do not usually picture people operating computers and telephones to ensure that the steel, pipes, bulldozers, cranes and workers will be at the construction sites when they are needed. 
 But construction project job schedulers, as such employees are known, play a vital role, especially in large projects where delays can cost developers and contractors dearly. Construction industry leaders in New York City, citing a surge of big projects under way or planned, say trained schedulers are in short supply. 
 Which is why Yusuf Hodges, 48, a carpenter from Brooklyn, and Diane Torres, 41, a steamfitter from Queens, have been spending two evenings a week since January at the Borough of Manhattan Community College. They and eight other people are being trained to become schedulers.
 The slowing economy and credit squeeze are likely to delay or derail some projects, but Louis J. Coletti, president of the Building Trades Employers' Association, an industry group, said the need for trained schedulers would remain, if only to replace those leaving the ranks. Major projects under way or planned in the city include the rebuilding of the World Trade Center site, new stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets and the Second Avenue subway. 
 Schedulers start at $35,000 to $45,000 a year and can advance to $65,000, Mr. Coletti said, and they often move to higher-paying jobs as assistant project managers and managers. 
 The program, in its second year, is a collaborative effort of the association, the college and the Lower Manhattan Construction Command Center, a joint city and state office that coordinates construction activities in that area. The program's graduates, though, are not obligated to work only on projects in Lower Manhattan, Mr. Coletti said.
 The course teaches the computer-based scheduling method most often used by contractors; blueprints and specifications; and construction contract law. It involves 32 three-hour sessions over 16 weeks. The current class runs until April 30 and another begins on May 5, said Sunil B. Gupta, the dean of the college's center for continuing education and work force development.
 Thirty-three people completed the program in two classes last year, he said, and 19 were placed with construction and construction management companies. Some of the rest remained with the companies where they had already worked as schedulers before enrolling; they had been trained on the job and took the class to improve their skills, Mr. Gupta said.
 The Lower Manhattan Construction Command Center and W. W. Grainger, a company that supplies building maintenance products, financed some or all of the $1,495 tuition for most of last year's trainees, he said. This year, he said, all the tuition is being paid by the trainees or their employers.
 The program's Web site, www.bmcc.cuny.edu/ce, calls for five years of employment in a construction-related or engineering-related field as a prerequisite for enrollment, but exceptions to this requirement have been made, Mr. Gupta said.
 Although Mr. Hodges and Ms. Torres earn among the highest hourly union wages paid to construction workers in the city -- currently $42 for him as a carpenter and $46 for her as a steamfitter -- this is misleading, they said, because they have not found steady work on construction projects.
 ''Last year I didn't make $30,000,'' Mr. Hodges said, and he has long had to do small private-contracting jobs between stints to make ends meet.
 A scheduler's job, he said, would provide steadier income, as well as the knowledge needed to own a full-time contracting business, which he hopes to do someday.
 In her decade of helping to install heating, air-conditioning, ventilating and steam lines, ''there have been only three times when I worked for a 12-month period,'' said Ms. Torres, one of a small number of women who are skilled construction workers in the city. 
 She, too, said that she expected steadier work as a scheduler. ''And right now,'' she said, ''I need stability.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Diane Torres is being trained to work as a construction scheduler, an occupation much in demand in New York City. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (93%); TUITION FEES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); PLUMBING & HVAC CONTRACTORS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); CREDIT CRISIS (68%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%)

COMPANY: WW GRAINGER INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (55%); NEW YORK YANKEES (55%)

TICKER: GWW (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



311 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Greatly Exaggerated?

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
REPORTS of a decline of the Manhattan real estate market may have been premature.
 Since the release of first-quarter sales results on April Fool's Day, brokers have been ruminating on the extent of a slowdown in the property market. One report prepared for Prudential Douglas Elliman by Jonathan J. Miller, an appraiser, showed a 34 percent drop in quarterly sales, compared with the corresponding period in 2007, the steepest decline in sales in memory. 
 This finding, however, was called into question by higher sales figures recorded by other brokerage firms. And even one of Elliman's top-selling brokers, Dolly Lenz, said in an e-mail message to fellow brokers, ''Something is very wrong somewhere and I need a plausible response, as will we all.'' 
 In a later e-mail message to a reporter, she said that despite some stress ''here and there due to overbuilding,'' the ''market is really quite good over all.'' 
 Last Wednesday, Gregory Heym, the chief economist for Halstead Property and Brown Harris Stevens, sent an e-mail message of his own to brokers at those firms. He said that while each company's sales figures were only estimates, the Douglas Elliman report was incorrect and ''missing almost 600 sales, which were available for anyone to view'' in the city's online records.
 Mr. Miller, the president of Miller Samuel Inc., said he used the same methodology that he has been using for 14 years, based on a variety of public and proprietary sources, and that differences in firms' reports could be caused by the timing of data collection. ''I stand by my numbers and the methodology used to compile them,'' he said.
 Because there is often a lag of several weeks in reports of property closings, each firm tries to capture closings filed in public records up to a few days before the end of the quarter, as well as additional reports of closings from managing agents and other sources.
 But a review of closing documents filed by last Wednesday, nine days after the end of the quarter, showed that the number of sales was roughly flat compared with the same quarter a year ago. They fell, but by less than 1 percent, or a decline of 11 sales out of nearly 3,500 sales reported in April 2007.
 Last spring, the number of closings rose to record levels, but with contract signings lagging lately and uncertainty on Wall Street, few brokers are predicting a similar surge this spring. Yet who would have thought that Manhattan apartment prices would hit record highs in the first quarter, while prices fell across the country?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (76%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



312 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; FISHING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Party Boats Struggle With a Double Threat

BYLINE: By TIM WACKER

DATELINE: Greenport 

 BODY:
 FROM the perspective of the party-boat business, Dave Brennan has had it pretty good.
 His boat, the 90-foot Peconic Star II, is docked here 20 minutes from some of the area's best summer flounder fishing, and the Long Island Rail Road stops well within cooler-carrying range of his 150-passenger boat.
 So why, after some 20 years, is he thinking it might be time to get out of the business? 
 ''It's the fuel and the fishing regulations,'' Mr. Brennan said. ''Between the two of them, we're going to have a rough season this year. There's less time to go fishing, and it's going to cost us a lot more when we do go.''
 Party boats, a seaside staple, are under siege from Belmar, N.J., to Montauk Point, say Mr. Brennan and others in the business. With diesel fuel prices bumping past $4 a gallon in both states and new federal limits on the most prized catch -- summer flounder, or fluke -- boat owners say it is getting too pricey to take people fishing.
 ''If things don't change soon, there are going to be a lot of boats out of business,'' said Capt. Paul Forsberg, owner of the Viking Fleet, five party boats and ferries based in Montauk.
 Because of higher fuel costs, party boats this year are charging on average $40 to $70 a person for half-day, three-quarter-day or full-day fishing trips. That is up 10 to 20 percent over last year, when diesel fuel cost $2.50 to $3 a gallon, Mr. Brennan said. Boats can burn up to 50 gallons an hour.
 Making matters worse this year, Mr. Brennan and Mr. Forsberg say, efforts to bolster the fluke population have made it harder to take legal fish home.
 In New Jersey, a keeper summer flounder must be 18 inches, up one inch over last year and 1.5 inches since 2006. In New York, fluke must be 20.5 inches, up an inch over last year and 2.5 inches since 2006. New York's fluke-fishing season has also been shortened by 16 days over last year.
 Federal mandates to help fluke recover from overfishing prompted the restrictions. The stocks have rebounded, but not enough to meet federal limits. Now it is party boats that are becoming scarce, said Alan Shinn, owner of two boats in Belmar.
 The number of party boats docked at the Belmar boat basin has dropped to six from nine in the past two years, Mr. Shinn said. He said he is thinking of selling one boat, the Royal Ms. Belmar, because it is losing money and he can charge only so much for a half-day of fishing.
 ''If we overprice things, it could price us right out of business,'' he said. ''People have to pay their bills, they don't have to go fishing.''
 This season does not look much brighter for commercial fishermen. Jim Lovgren, owner of a fishing boat and a member of the Point Pleasant Fishermen's Dock Cooperative in New Jersey, said commercial fishermen were also suffering from government fishing restrictions and rising fuel prices.
 ''It's costing us about $500 a day more this year than last to go fishing,'' he said of fuel expenses.
 Some relief may come in New York; efforts are under way in the State Legislature to give boat owners fuel tax rebates, said Assemblyman Fred W. Thiele Jr., Republican of Sag Harbor. The state tax on diesel is 28.9 cents a gallon. Such a rebate, which is available to boats in New Jersey, would cost New York about $2 million, Mr. Thiele said.
 But, he said, the state economy could lose much more than that in revenue, since hotels, restaurants, bait shops and coffee shops would suffer if party boat fishermen stopped coming to town.
 If that happens, Mr. Brennan said, there may be a new business coming in: boat sales.
 ''You know anybody who wants a 100-passenger boat?'' he said with a half-serious tone. ''I don't know. I may be able to hang on this summer, but I know a lot of guys that are thinking of getting out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CAPTAIN Dave Brennan with his party boat, the Peconic Star II. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXINE HICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (88%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); FERRIES (78%); AGRICULTURE FORESTRY & FISHING LAW (77%); FINFISH FISHING (77%); DIESEL FUEL (75%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (74%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (72%); FISHERIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



313 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 914 words

PERSON: John Herlitz 

HEADLINE: John Herlitz, 65, Designer of Muscle Cars

BYLINE: By JAMES G. COBB

 BODY:
John E. Herlitz, an automobile designer who styled a signature American muscle car and left his imprint on many notable Chrysler Corporation models of the late 20th century, died March 24 in Naples, Fla. He was 65.
 The cause was complications of a fall in his winter home in Naples, a son, Kirk Herlitz, said. Mr. Herlitz also lived in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
 Mr. Herlitz made his reputation with the 1970 Plymouth Barracuda, which brought a touch of class to the ''pony car'' segment, a genre of sporty compact cars started with the Ford Mustang, with long hoods and short rear decks. 
 His Barracuda replaced designs that were only mildly successful, starting with an awkward 1964 fastback based on the Plymouth Valiant economy car. In contrast, the Herlitz Barracuda was clean and largely unadorned, with a wide body and a hunkered-down stance that hinted at the considerable power available to customers who checked the right boxes on their order forms.
 When a huge V-8 engine was crammed into a coupe like this, its status changed to muscle car, capable of tire-smoking burnouts and blistering straight-line acceleration -- but generally mediocre handling.
 Today, the Herlitz-redesigned Barracudas of the early 1970s, especially Hemi 'Cudas with fearsome 425-horsepower engines, remain some of the most sought-after muscle cars. At collector-car auctions frequented by celebrities, bids have exceeded $2 million for Hemi 'Cudas with rare high-performance options.
 In another indication of the timeless nature of the design, Chrysler is resurrecting the Barracuda's sister car, the Dodge Challenger, as a 2008 model. Chrysler shut down its Plymouth brand seven years ago, precluding a return of the Barracuda.
 Mr. Herlitz followed up his 1970 tour de force with well-received makeovers of other revered performance cars, including the 1971 Plymouth Road Runner and the GTX. Then, as the muscle-car era wound down amid fuel shortages and new safety and emissions rules, Mr. Herlitz assumed ever-increasing responsibility in the Chrysler studios. 
 He worked with the teams of designers who created the boxy K-car compact cars, which staved off a bankruptcy filing; the first modern minivans; and a family of large sedans in the early 1990s that were notable for their ''cab forward'' design and spacious passenger compartments. 
 By 1994, when he was named vice president for product design, Mr. Herlitz had become chief lieutenant to Tom Gale, the engineer turned designer who headed the Chrysler studio. Under their leadership, Chrysler designers gained a reputation for bold cars and trucks that often borrowed from the past. This retro look was exemplified by a series of Chrysler-brand concept cars -- design prototypes often intended to elicit reactions -- including the Atlantic, Phaeton and Chronos, that evoked voluptuous motorcars, including the Bugattis of the 1930s. 
 Mr. Herlitz was also associated with the Dodge Copperhead, a roadster in the vein of British classics like the Austin Healey, which was a favorite at auto shows in 1997. The next year Daimler-Benz took over Chrysler; the Copperhead, like many other innovative show cars of the time, never went into production.
 In a telephone interview last week, Mr. Gale said that in a studio, where designs are usually collaborative even if individuals sometimes get the credit, Mr. Herlitz was notably reluctant to step into the spotlight. But in the case of the Barracuda, Mr. Gale said, ''I think he really deserves a lot of credit.'' He praised the car's proportions, width and stance.
 Dan Gurney, the driver and racecar builder, was associated with the Barracuda through All American Racers, the name of his team and his shop, for which a limited-edition model, the AAR 'Cuda, was named.
 About Mr. Herlitz's basic design, Mr. Gurney said: ''It was a stunning car. I don't know what makes one shape of metal stand out more than any other, but it had it. The car had just the right geometry and a timeless style.''
 At the time of his retirement in 2000, Mr. Herlitz was senior vice president for product design. He helped to establish the Walter P. Chrysler Museum at company headquarters in Auburn Hills, Mich., and aided in the design of a visual arts building under construction at the Interlochen Center for the Arts in northern Michigan; he served on the school's corporate advisory council. 
 Mr. Herlitz was also a director of the Detroit Institute of Ophthalmology and the Cleveland Institute of Art. He served on the board of Winnebago Industries.
 John Eric Herlitz was born in Pine Plains, N.Y., on Dec. 30, 1942, the son of Swedish immigrants. As early as age 13, he was sending sketches of cars to Chrysler. He kept up correspondence with company officials, who gave advice on the education he would need to fulfill his dream of becoming a car designer. 
 After attending the Salisbury prep school in Connecticut, he received a bachelor's degree in industrial design from Pratt Institute in 1964 and joined Chrysler soon after. 
 Mr. Herlitz married Joan Elizabeth Neinas on Sept. 20, 1969. She died Jan. 22.
 He is survived by two sons, Kirk of San Carlos, Calif., and Todd of Chicago, and one grandson.
 Last Saturday at the Chrysler Museum, those arriving for a memorial service walked by an orange 1970 Hemi 'Cuda that was already in a featured position near the auditorium, along with a black 1971 Road Runner that Mr. Herlitz had not only designed but also once owned. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John E. Herlitz in 1998 with the 1970 Plymouth Barracuda, a car that became popular after he redesigned earlier versions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP GREENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); CELEBRITIES (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); CONCEPT CARS (78%); SEDANS (78%); AUCTIONS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); APPOINTMENTS (63%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (60%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: industrial and Graphic Design

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



314 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BROWSING BOOKS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Paperback Row

BYLINE: By ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
THE ECHOING GREEN: The Untold Story of Bobby Thomson, Ralph Branca and the Shot Heard Round the World, by Joshua Prager. (Vintage, $15.95.) The story broke in The Wall Street Journal in 2001: The New York Giants' historic comeback at the end of the 1951 season, capped by Bobby Thomson's famous home run in Game 3 of the playoffs, was powered by their theft of the signals of opposing catchers. Here Prager expands his original research into the mechanics of the scheme -- a telescope hidden behind the mesh grid of a clubhouse window in the Polo Grounds -- but he focuses on the lifelong effects of the secret on Thomson and the Dodgers' pitcher Ralph Branca. The book is ''a revelation and a page turner,'' John Thorn wrote in the Book Review. 
 THE MISTRESS'S DAUGHTER, by A. M. Homes. (Penguin, $14.) When she was 31, Homes, a novelist, learned that the woman who had given her up for adoption was looking for her. ''In my dreams, my birth mother is ... beautiful, incredibly competent,'' Homes writes in this fascinating memoir. The reality was very different: her biological mother was incredibly needy, and her biological father demanded a DNA test. As a ''document of a flawed, incoherent self,'' the book is ''fierce and eloquent,'' our reviewer, Katie Roiphe, said. 
 THE LAST MUGHAL. The Fall of a Dynasty: Delhi, 1857, by William Dalrymple. (Vintage, $16.95.) Drawing on accounts -- never before used by historians -- from Delhi residents who survived the Great Mutiny of 1857, Dalrymple examines the collapse of relations between the British and their Indian subjects. He structures his narrative around the life of Zafar, the poet and Sufi mystic who became the uprising's figurehead monarch. The contradictions and inequalities of contemporary India are the subject of IN SPITE OF THE GODS: The Rise of Modern India, by Edward Luce (Anchor, $14.95), who spent five years in New Delhi as a reporter for The Financial Times. 
 THE FIRST MAN-MADE MAN: The Story of Two Sex Changes, One Love Affair, and a Twentieth-Century Medical Revolution, by Pagan Kennedy. (Bloomsbury, $14.95.) Part biography, part medical history, this book tells the story of a British woman who, with the help of testosterone and 13 operations, became a man. Harold Gillies, the doctor who effected the transformation, almost steals the show in Kennedy's account of his pioneering plastic surgery. 
 ALEXIS DE TOCQUEVILLE: A Life, by Hugh Brogan. (Yale University, $20.) This first full-scale biography in English was written by a British historian with a deep knowledge of 19th-century French politics and an accessible style. Brogan situates Tocqueville in his aristocratic milieu and shows the influences on his thinking before he set out on the nine-month journey that resulted in the two volumes of ''Democracy in America.'' Tocqueville later helped draft the constitution of France's second republic and was for a time its foreign minister. In Brogan's hands, his life ''is always a pulsing intellectual and political drama,'' Christopher Caldwell wrote in the Book Review. 
 THE FEMININE MISTAKE: Are We Giving Up Too Much? by Leslie Bennetts. (Voice/Hyperion, $15.95.) Bennetts seeks to shift the debate about work and motherhood from family values to economics, arguing that opting out of the work force to raise children is a serious error for women. Another set of questions about work is raised by Sara Davidson in LEAP! What Will We Do With the Rest of Our Lives? (Ballantine, $15). Davidson interviews aging boomers trying to find meaning as their work lives wind down. 
 THOMAS HARDY, by Claire Tomalin. (Penguin, $17.) ''This book is about how Hardy became a writer, poet and novelist,'' Tomalin begins, and she shows the effect of class on Hardy's effort to pursue his ambitions. Her biography is ''a fascinating case study in mid-Victorian literary sociology,'' our reviewer, Thomas Mallon, said. 
 THE MINISTRY OF SPECIAL CASES, by Nathan Englander. (Random House, $13.95.) Englander's first novel is set in Buenos Aires in 1976 at the beginning of Argentina's ''Dirty War.'' When a Jewish couple's college-age son is seized by the police, his parents must appeal to a Kafkaesque Ministry of Special Cases. Englander's Argentina is a mythological place, presided over by the spirit of Isaac Bashevis Singer. 
 MEDICAL APARTHEID: The Dark History of Medical Experimentation on Black Americans From Colonial Times to the Present, by Harriet A. Washington. (Harlem Moon/Broadway, $15.95.) Washington documents the history of medical research involving black Americans; the book recently won the National Book Critics Circle Award for nonfiction. 
 UNCERTAINTY: Einstein, Heisenberg, Bohr, and the Struggle for the Soul of Science, by David Lindley. (Anchor, $14.95.) This account of the development and impact of the uncertainty principle ''provides a useful precis of the mind-blowing progress of physics in the early 20th century,'' Janet Maslin wrote in The Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (87%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); LEGAL PATERNITY (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (67%); DNA (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (61%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (60%); HISTORY (57%); DNA TESTING (51%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DELHI, INDIA (69%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



315 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1387 words

HEADLINE: Faster, Higher, Stronger, No Longer

BYLINE: By BUZZ BISSINGER. 
Buzz Bissinger is the author of ''Friday Night Lights'' and ''Three Nights in August.''

DATELINE: Philadelphia 

 BODY:
 IN 1894, Baron Pierre de Coubertin, having refused the military and political careers typical of a French aristocrat, settled upon the revival of the Olympic Games as his life's work. He saw sport as a higher calling, a religion. And he saw the Olympics as an event that would enhance and heighten moral virtue: ''May joy and good fellowship reign, and in this manner, may the Olympic torch pursue its way through ages, increasing friendly understanding among nations, for the good of a humanity always more enthusiastic, more courageous and more pure.''
 He is considered by many the father of the modern Games, first held in 1896 in Athens. But if he were alive today and witness to the Olympics over the past 40 years, he would almost surely come to the conclusion that his grand idea had failed, that idealism is no match for the troika of politics, money and sports. 
 The Summer Games in Beijing are four months away and already a predictable mess. The running of the Olympic torch resulted in arrests and nasty confrontations with the police last week in London and Paris amid protests against China's recent crackdown in Tibet and other human rights abuses. In San Francisco, the only North American stop, the torch-bearers played literal hide-and-seek with protesters when the route was suddenly changed for security reasons. There have been repeated calls for heads of state to boycott the opening ceremonies. But protests and boycotts are no longer effective remedies. 
 There is only one way left to improve the Olympics: to permanently end them. 
 True, in the world of sports, any plan that puts morality over money is unlikely to happen. Commissions are formed only once the problem is over (see Major League Baseball) and the cheaters will always find another angle -- you can bet that some lab somewhere is working on the design of a new steroid undetectable to testing (see every professional sport and many ''amateur'' ones). The loftier the rose-colored rhetoric, which in the Olympics has become an Olympian growth industry, the worse the underlying stink. And this is an institution that is rotted in so many different ways.
 A short history:
 In 1968, in what became known as the Tlatelolco massacre, government troops fired on thousands of student protesters in Mexico City 10 days before the Summer Games. Nobody knows exactly how many were killed, but the best estimate is 200 to 300. 
 Four years later in 1972, members of the pro-Palestinian group Black September took members of the Israeli team hostage from its quarters in the Olympic village in Munich; 11 died. 
 In 1976, the East German women's swim team won 11 of 13 gold medals, a performance that was stunning -- too stunning, since it was later revealed that hundreds of East German athletes had been using steroids for years to enhance performance. 
 In 1980, the United States and roughly 60 other nations boycotted the Games in Moscow because of the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanistan. 
 In 1984, although nation-by-nation medal counts are supposed to be against the very spirit of the Games, the performance of the United States in Los Angeles was ballyhooed. Such chest-beating only reinforced the inherent jingoism of the Games, since the Soviet Union and East Germany boycotted of course in retaliation for the American snub of Moscow. More important, 1984 became the first Olympics in which corporate sponsors got their hooks in deep, making the Games too often seem like one running advertisement.
 As for the 1988 Games, in arguably the premier track event of the Olympics, the men's 100 meters, the Canadian Ben Johnson was ultimately stripped of his gold medal after testing positive for performance-enhancing drugs. In addition, the host nation, South Korea, displaced 720,000 residents to build facilities. (According to an advocacy group, the Center on Housing Rights and Evictions, China has now more than doubled that figure to an estimated 1.5 million for its Games.)
 In 1996, the Olympics in Atlanta were marred by a bombing that resulted in two deaths. 
 In 2000, the American track star Marion Jones won five medals, three gold, while taking performance-enhancing drugs, lied about it for seven years and is now in prison for perjury. In addition, 40 of China's 300 athletes withdrew after seven rowers failed blood tests. 
 Before the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, it was revealed that backers, in trying to get the Games, had bribed officials of the International Olympic Committee with college scholarships, plastic surgery and free guns and skis. At those Games, one of the judges in the pairs skating competition admitted that she voted to ensure victory for the Russian team.
 In 2004, the Greek government spent as much as $12 billion on the Summer Games in Athens, 5 percent of the country's economy. Yes, part of that money went to the building of a new rail system and airport, but the Greek government also admitted it had no plan for what do afterward with many of the lavish facilities it was required to build for the Games.
 At the 2006 Winter Games in Turin, Italy, policemen raided the Olympic residences of the Austrian ski federation for possible illegal use of performance-enhancing drugs; two members fled the country.
 With the Summer Games approaching in August, one event has already started, the who-is-in-who-is-out opening ceremonies boycott over China's record on human rights (as of the last tally, President Bush was in, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain were out and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France was on the fence). 
 But lest we as Americans feel too righteous, we should consider this: If the host country this summer were the United States, every visiting nation would have to consider either boycotting the opening ceremonies or withdrawing given a disturbing record of our own, which includes the occupation of Iraq and the abuses at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo Bay.
 IT is, of course, unfair to make a sweeping condemnation of all the athletes who participate. ''This is their chance to march into the Olympic stadium,'' says Bob Costas, who will have his seventh turn as the prime-time Olympics host for NBC in Beijing. ''It is the culmination of all their time and effort. Many of them come out of impoverished circumstances and they are exposed to more in two weeks than they might be in two years.'' 
 It is the single best argument for the Olympics. But still not enough to overcome the sordid history.
 A permanent end to the Olympics might actually not be that difficult. All it would really take is a single act of courage and morality by the United States to pull out of the Games forever on the basis that the mission is not coming close to being served. An American departure would severely dilute the Games since it would no longer be a world competition of anything. 
 But a far stronger factor in the exit of the American team would be the likelihood that American corporations would stop backing the Olympics with their megamillions. It would also severely diminish the willingness of American networks to continue to pay mind-boggling sums for the broadcast rights to the Olympics, which in the case of NBC was about $2.2 billion for the Games in 2010 and 2012. If Americans aren't playing, Americans won't watch.
 In place of the Olympics, world championships would still be held in individual sports as they are now, but perhaps at permanent venues designed for optimum performance. This would be a good thing for athletes. For all the hype, the Games often don't provide the greatest performances. In Athens, for example, there was not enough time to build a roof for the pool because of the huge construction project that the Olympics had become, exposing swimmers to hideous summer heat and the backstrokers to blinding sunlight. 
 Would some athletes become innocent victims with the loss of the Olympics? Yes. But it would be nothing close to the number of innocent victims killed in Darfur with Chinese-supplied weapons, or in Iraq during the American occupation. 
 The world would carry on without the Games. The ideals set forth by Coubertin when he revived them, instead of being routinely mocked as they are now, would be honored by the admission that the Olympics have simply failed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC TORCH PROTESTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); BOYCOTTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BASEBALL (73%); STEROIDS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); RELIGION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (71%); XIZANG, CHINA (55%) CHINA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MEXICO (79%); TIBET (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



316 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER AIR FARES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Early-Bird Discounts for Business Class

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
YOU don't have to pay retail for business-class seats anymore. A growing number of airlines are offering significant discounts on business-class tickets to travelers who book well in advance. 
 In February, Air France introduced a new business-class fare that is about half the normal price: about $4,000 for a round-trip trans-Atlantic flight when purchased 30 days in advance, compared with about $8,000 when booked just a week in advance or as much as $11,000 at the last minute. About the same time, British Airways restructured its business-class fares from a single flat rate -- typically $10,000 between New York and London -- to a new tiered-fare system that offers deep discounts to travelers who book early. Lufthansa already offers a similar deal with business-class fares as low as $2,739 for a round-trip ticket between New York and Frankfurt booked more than 50 days ahead, compared with about $8,000 normally. 
 The deals come as demand for those cushy seats in the front of the plane is sagging. Premium travel, highly sensitive to the economic cycle, has been slowing since its peak last August, according to the International Air Transport Association. In January, sales of business- and first-class tickets barely grew, rising just 0.4 percent compared with the month last year. And with the increasingly grim outlook for the United States economy and financial markets, business travel could continue to slow.
 The new deals are aimed squarely at leisure travelers who have the flexibility to book well in advance, with the deepest discounts offered to customers booking as many as 60 days out. To make sure they don't cannibalize their lucrative business clients, these fares come with certain requirements like Saturday-night stayovers. And unlike the so-called walk-up fares business travelers tend to buy, discount business-class tickets are almost always nonrefundable and come with hefty fees upward of $400 for any changes. 
 For example, Air France is offering business-class tickets from Washington to Barcelona starting at $3,362 round trip, compared with about $5,100. But to get the lower fare, customers must book at least 30 days in advance, stay a minimum of seven days and connect through Charles de Gaulle International Airport in Paris. Travelers who can book as many as 60 days in advance can score a ticket for as much as 60 percent off. 
 British Airways' new fare structure offers tiered business-class markdowns, with the best deals going to travelers who book the furthest in advance. Travelers who buy 42 days in advance and stay over a Saturday night pay about $3,000 round trip for business-class seats between New York and London, compared with roughly $3,200 for tickets bought 14 days in advance with a Saturday night stay. By contrast, a seven-day advance purchase fare is about $8,000 with no other restrictions. And walk-up fares can be $10,200.
 Most of these so-called structured discounts are being introduced in the highly competitive trans-Atlantic market, where United States carriers, faced with stiff competition from low-cost airlines at home, have been adding flights at a dizzying pace. Major carriers are also facing increasing competition from new, all-business-class airlines like Eos and Silverjet, which have been offering New York to London business-class service for considerably less than the bigger carriers. 
 But travelers are finding other ways to get deals on premium seats to other regions. American Express Platinum cardholders, for example, who buy a first- or business-class ticket at full price to nearly any destination through their Platinum Travel Service, get a free companion ticket. And many airlines now offer so-called y-up or q-up fares -- those coveted first- or business-class seats that sell at coach prices. (FareCompare.com offers a ''Y-Up Tool'' to search for such fares. You can also call the airline reservation line and ask for y-up fares specifically.)
 ON top of these deals, a growing number of airlines have been rolling out periodic business-class fire sales to Europe. Right now, for instance, Continental is offering a summer sale of business-class seats from its Newark hub for as low as $1,598 round trip to Belfast, $1,798 to London and $1,998 to Amsterdam. Similarly, British Airways has been running a business-class sale with round-trip fares starting at $2,056 between New York and London. Today is the last day to purchase the discounted tickets for travel in June and August. And Swiss International Air Lines is offering July and August specials from Boston to Rome for $2,914 round trip, compared with about $8,800 normally, and $2,903 from New York to Venice compared with $8,600. Tickets must be purchased by the end of April. 
 Not long ago, discounts on business class seats were unheard of. ''You had to buy rack rate and that was it,'' said John Lampl, a spokesman for British Airways. ''Business fares were kind of sacred.''
 Now, however, such sales are becoming as routine as post-holiday specials at the mall. And just as savvy shoppers never pay full price for designer duds, thrifty travelers are increasingly nabbing discount premium seats.
 ''People wait for it,'' said Joe Brancatelli, publisher of the subscription travel Web site JoeSentMe.com, where members receive regular e-mail alerts about such sales. One of his subscribers, Bob Thompson, a broadcast lawyer from McLean, Va., recently snapped up two business-class tickets from Newark to Milan for a summer vacation with his wife, Petra. Total cost including taxes: $4,150. 
 Staying on top of the sales, said Mr. Thompson, ''means you don't have to pay the sucker walk-up business-class fare.''
 Last year, he got four business-class seats for $1,500 each to London during Christmas, and four business-class tickets for $1,500 each to vacation in Brussels last summer. Both flights were from Newark. 
 ''Had I wanted to buy a coach ticket to Brussels, it was going to be $1,100,'' he said. ''That's a difference of only $300 each way.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDY RASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIR FARES (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); AIRPORTS (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); LEISURE TRAVEL (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

COMPANY: AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: AF (PAR) (58%); AF (AMS) (58%); LHA (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



317 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; COMINGS AND GOINGS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Says It Expects No Delays In Handling of Passports

BYLINE: By HILARY HOWARD

 BODY:
Despite a compromised economy, Americans are still making travel plans. But unlike last year, when a new requirement for passports (or certain other secure documents) to travel by air to or from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda, caused long delays in filing passport applications, the State Department predicts no delays this year. 
 ''It's a great time to apply for a passport,'' said David Donahue, a senior consular official. He credits the new passport law, the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, for a decision to hire hundreds of employees and add passport agencies in Detroit, Minneapolis and Dallas to handle special requests. 
 Mr. Donahue stressed, however, that applicants without time constraints should go to one of 9,300 passport acceptance sites, including post offices and libraries.
 To find a nearby site, applicants can type in their zip codes at www.iafdb.travel.state.gov. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSPORTS & VISAS (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (76%) MICHIGAN, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); CANADA (90%); BERMUDA (87%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



318 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: With a Mill's Dismantling, A Torrent of Memories

BYLINE: By KEVIN COYNE. 
e-mail: Jersey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Garfield 

 BODY:
 ERNIE ROSOLEN pointed halfway up one of the few walls still standing at a factory that was quickly falling, looking past the exposed skeleton of steel I-beams, the ganglia of twisted rebar, the mounds of concrete rubble, his eye fixed instead on a small spot of red, as bright and emphatic as a lone geranium on a tenement windowsill.
 ''That's a fire hose station I had put up there, in case we had a fire along the roof, so we could fight the fire from the top,'' said Mr. Rosolen, 73, whose job it once was to keep the Garden State Paper Company running, but whose job now includes the difficult assignment of watching the mill die. 
 ''Let me tell you, it's not pleasant to look at,'' he said as dust rose and excavators picked through the jagged piles at the paper mill where he worked for 32 years. ''It's very emotional. I spent a lifetime here.''
 The mill closed on Dec. 7, 2001, Pearl Harbor Day. One day it was humming along, turning bales of old newspapers into 15,000-pound rolls of recycled paper, paying just about the best union wages around: with overtime, $80,000 or more for some of the 250 workers. And then the next day, gone. Its distant corporate owner -- the imploding Enron, which had just paid $72 million for it the previous year -- was bankrupt.
 The plant was shuttered, like so many others along the Passaic River, but hopes for it lingered. It was only 40 years old, a pioneer in the recycled newsprint industry, the city's largest employer and taxpayer. Surely somebody would see its value and reopen it. 
 A Canadian company bought the mill in bankruptcy court for $6.1 million, but the gates stayed locked. For almost a year, in 2004 and 2005, Thomas J. Duch, the city manager, worked with a group that included some former contractors and employees trying to assemble $23 million to reopen the plant.
 ''We thought it was going to start up again, that we were going to get the jobs again,'' said Mr. Duch, a former assemblyman and mayor of Garfield whose father spent 33 years as a machine tender at Garden State, and who spent two college summers there himself, earning money for law school. ''That was the last hope to get the factory reopened.'' 
 And then the developers came calling, lured by almost 14 acres with a river view. Garden State was not one of those stately, many-windowed brick mills that could easily be converted to housing or storage or some new industrial use. It was a vast, hulking machine built for one purpose, and when that purpose was over, so too was its value as a building. The city approved a plan for a 284-unit development: 184 town house units and two 50-unit condominium buildings restricted to residents over 55. Demolition started in January and is expected to continue at least through the summer.
 ''Right here, this is where it started, and this is all gone now,'' Mr. Rosolen said as he stood beside the deep pits where the truckloads of old newspaper were once unloaded.
 Mr. Rosolen's life -- where he was raised, where he worked, what he does now -- has given him an unusually close view of the alarming speed at which the industrial economy in America moves now, shaped as it is by things that happen in distant places. 
 ''That's where I grew up, right up there,'' he said, pointing up a hill to a line of houses backing up to the mill. When he was a boy, though, this land was clear, as it soon will be again -- a vacant lot where an adjacent factory, the shuttered Forstmann woolen mill, had once considered expanding. ''This was our playground.''
 Some neighbors grazed goats here, and he and his friends wore a path down the hill, headed for the baseball diamond. The land stayed empty until Richard B. Scudder, the publisher of the old Newark Evening News, thought that all those old newspapers headed for landfills might find a more useful, and profitable, end. ''Scudder's Folly,'' skeptics called it, but a new de-inking process he helped invent, using a blender in his home kitchen, made recycling feasible. The plant opened in 1961.
 Mr. Rosolen started as a purchasing agent at Garden State in 1967, and his respect for the original company remains so deep that he still refers to ''Mr. Scudder.'' He later became the purchasing manager, and then the facilities manager, retiring in 1999, the year before Enron took over. A volunteer firefighter for 50 years, and a former chief, he now works part-time as a fire inspector for the city. Before the demolition started, he helped point out to those who would be taking it apart what was buried where, and where the trouble spots might be.
 ''It's going to be a slow process, because this place was built really strong,'' he said. ''The concrete's deep into the ground.''
 As a fire inspector he has to check in at the site periodically -- to make sure the proper safety procedures are in place when the steel is being cut up, for instance -- but when the demolition first started, when the finality of the plant's demise was unmistakable, he sometimes took alternate routes on his rounds through the city, so he wouldn't have to watch.
 ''That was my office, the last one up there,'' he said, pointing toward a section of the building that had been peeled open, its innards exposed. The office door was closed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CLOSE-UP: Ernie Rosolen, who worked at the Garden State Paper Company, at the demolition site. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. NJ2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); PAPER MILLS (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); NEWSPRINT (78%); PAPER MFG (78%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LAWYERS (72%); OVERTIME (71%); CITIES (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (64%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); APPROVALS (50%)

COMPANY: GARDEN STATE PAPER CO INC (70%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (70%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



319 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: G.E.'s Shortfall Matched the Week's Mood

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
General Electric reported a quarterly earnings decline on Friday and the stock market shuddered, closing with substantial weekly losses in all the major indexes. 
 G.E. is a market bellwether, and it has been one of the most reliable earning machines in the United States. But it reported a 5.8 percent decline in profits in the first quarter, far short of expectations, setting off worries about the state of the economy and of the big businesses that dominate the stock market.
 For the week, G.E. lost 14.7 percent, the worst performance among the Dow industrials. Alcoa lost 9.9 percent, for the second-worst weekly tally in the group.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 284 points, or 2.3 percent, to close at 12,325.42. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 37.57 points, or 2.7 percent, to close at 1,332.83. The Nasdaq composite index fell 80.74 points, or 3.4 percent, to close at 2,290.24. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note closed at 3.47 percent, unchanged from the previous week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (59%); ALCOA INC (57%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (59%); GEC (LSE) (59%); GE (SWX) (59%); GE (NYSE) (59%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (59%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



320 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: Even Renters Aren't Safe

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
ON a cold evening in March, Desiree Dookhoo was at home in Ozone Park, Queens, studying for a nursing exam, when she heard someone trying to open her front door. She demanded to know who was there and threatened to call the police.
 ''It's Richard from the bank,'' a voice answered. ''Your landlord has lost the house.''
 Many renters may believe that they have avoided the chaos of the subprime loan crisis and the mortgage meltdown simply by renting and not buying, but they may not be as insulated as they think. Buildings with tenants are going into foreclosure as well.
 ''This is a growing problem nationwide,'' said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Moody's Economy.com, a research company. ''Landlords of all stripes could potentially get caught up in this very severe downturn.'' 
 ''I suspect that it's going to be more of a problem for lower- to middle-income markets,'' Mr. Zandi added. 
 Ms. Dookhoo said her landlord had told her that ''he wasn't ready to buy a house at that point in his life. He just got sidetracked by the bank and told all these wonderful stories,'' about how he could afford a mortgage. Eventually, his debts caught up to him and the house slipped into foreclosure. ''It didn't work out for him, unfortunately,'' she said. 
 It has not worked out terribly well for Ms. Dookhoo, either. Her lease expired last year, so when the property manager appointed by the bank asked her to move out, she started looking. Now, she and her two children have to find a new place to live in New York's expensive and saturated housing market. 
 The property manager who came knocking on Ms. Dookhoo's door has not been forthcoming about which bank he represents. But since he is giving her some time to look for a new apartment, she decided not to push the issue. He has also said that he would give her a little money for her moving expenses -- an offer known in the industry as ''cash for keys.'' 
 ''I've got to leave, it's their house now,'' she said.
 In New York, a city of renters despite the recent condominium boom, tenants are particularly at risk. According to census figures for 2006, the most recent year for which data was available, an estimated 65.6 percent of New York City housing was renter occupied, as opposed to 32.7 percent nationwide. 
 ''The effects of the subprime crisis and the housing-price crisis are just different in New York than in many parts of the country,'' said Vicki Been, the director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy at New York University, citing factors like strong home prices and low homeownership rates. ''The crisis is unfolding more slowly and, I think, it is affecting many more renter households than it is elsewhere in the country.''
 In 1993, during the last big wave of foreclosures in New York City, nearly 6,200 buildings (residential, commercial and mixed-use) began the foreclosure process. In 2007, the Furman Center estimated that at least 38,000 people facing a foreclosure in New York City were renters. 
 The center, analyzing data in New York City from housing court and the county registrar, estimates that foreclosure proceedings were begun on nearly 15,000 residential or mixed-use buildings last year alone -- a majority of them small buildings with just a few units, and almost all of them in the boroughs outside of Manhattan. (The center counts a total of about 900,000 buildings with residential space in the 5 boroughs and some 3.2 million units of housing.)
 ''The national discussion about foreclosures has largely focused on owners,'' Ms. Been said. ''There's a whole group here that is not being talked about:'' renters.
 Foreclosures can have an impact on tenants in lots of ways, but there are two sets of problems that most will face. The first and most daunting is eviction. The second is a loss of services, which can mean anything from having to fix your own clogged pipes to losing heat in the winter. 
 Luis Matute moved into a two-bedroom railroad apartment at the top of a walk-up in Bushwick, Brooklyn, 13 years ago. Five years later, Nelva Muy joined him when they were married. Now, the couple, who are from Ecuador, and their 6-year-old son, Jinson, live in the same apartment, which has become plagued with cracks and leaks. 
 Two years ago, the person who collected the rent every month stopped showing up. Mr. Matute and Ms. Muy have not paid rent since, though they have been saving their rent money of $575 a month. 
 Michael Grinthal, a lawyer at South Brooklyn Legal Services' housing unit, said that putting rent money in a bank account is a good way for tenants to protect themselves from lawsuits or eviction if a court decides that the landlord or new owner is entitled to unpaid back rent. 
 In a sense, however, Mr. Matute and Ms. Muy are getting what they pay for.
 Since their landlord disappeared, they have grappled with everything from a crumbling roof to lapsed utility bills. They have pitched in with their neighbors to pay some of the bills and make repairs to try to keep their apartments livable. 
 ''I did the best I could,'' Mr. Matute said.
 ''We do everything in the building,'' Ms. Muy added. (They both spoke in Spanish, through an interpreter.)
 Despite their efforts, worsening conditions landed their home on the city's list of the 200 worst residential buildings in the five boroughs, which was released last November. 
 Since then, the Department of Housing Preservation and Development has made $70,000 worth of repairs -- and still when it rains they put a bowl in their living room to collect the leaking raindrops. 
 With their lease expired and the future of the building uncertain, the family doesn't know if a move is in the offing. 
 They have the cushion of saved rent, but finding housing that is affordable long-term will be a challenge. Mr. Matute earns $11 per hour working in a lumber warehouse, and Ms. Muy recently lost her job in a clothing factory. They know their rent could easily double if they moved to another apartment in their Bushwick neighborhood.
 ''We want to stay here,'' Ms. Muy said. ''This is our home. I would like to know, if I have to move out.''
 Other renters are forced out of their apartments because of worsening conditions. 
 According to Neill Coleman, a spokesman for the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, residents who find themselves without essential services like heat, water or gas can ask the city for help by calling 311. 
 ''H.P.D. will make emergency repairs if necessary (that could include delivery of oil for the boiler or picking up the electricity account),'' he wrote in an e-mail message.
 This winter, the heat went out in Yolanda Feliciano's apartment in the Bronx. More than two months later, it was still not working. Her landlord defaulted on her mortgage and left this problem to her tenants.
 Ms. Feliciano contacted the city several weeks ago. Mr. Coleman said that a case had been brought against the landlord in housing court and that the department officials had tried to turn the heat on twice but they could not get into the building. He invited Ms. Feliciano to schedule a time for them to come by again.
 For the time being, Ms. Feliciano is staying with friends and has sent her two children to live with their father. She said a potential buyer was interested in the building, and has told her that she can stay on as a tenant. 
 William Carbine, an assistant commissioner for neighborhood preservation at the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said that there had been a program in place since 2005, called PACE, to help homeowners with mortgagetroubles. But the program was intended to help victims of predatory lending, and hasn't been able to keep up with problems caused by the subprime crisis. 
 ''Subprime really overwhelmed what was available,'' he said. 
 Mr. Carbine cited a range of problems brought on the city by the housing crisis, ranging from neighborhood destabilization to speculative construction that has left buildings standing empty. To address them, he said, the city is creating the Center For New York City Neighborhoods, which provides resources like counseling and legal services citywide. 
 The city does not have a tenant program, the hope being that if you help the owner, the tenant will also be taken care of. Renters, however, can call for advice.
 By the time the city gets involved, it might be too late the help the landlord. And some owners simply walk away from buildings that they can no longer afford. 
 Carmelo Casiano and his mother, Gregoria, have been living in the same building on Dekalb Avenue in Bushwick, Brooklyn, since Mr. Casiano got a divorce more than 20 years ago.
 Their landlord disappeared some five years ago, and eventually the building went into foreclosure. Since then, it has fallen into disrepair, losing everything from heat to pieces of the ceiling. 
 Late last year, Sister Kathleen Maire of the Bushwick Housing Independence Project, began helping the Casianos and their neighbors sort out the legal and physical mess of their building. 
 She is helping them apply for ''7A'' status, under which a court-appointed caretaker collects rent and administers an abandoned building. The rent goes toward utilities and repairs. If their building is sold instead, they may well have to move.
 Sister Maire says she thinks that the city housing department makes an effort to respond to complaints and keep people's apartments safe, but ''they just don't have the staff.'' 
 When the landlord leaves, she added, ''What it does, is put a terrible burden on the tenants.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AN EYESORE: A walk-up apartment building where Luis Matute lives in Bushwick, Brooklyn, has serious cracks and leaks. The person who collected the rent every month stopped showing up about two years ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE1)
EVICTED: Desiree Dookhoo was told she must leave her Queens home.
NEGLECT Carmelo Casiano, his reflection in the mirror, pointed out ceilings in his bathroom in Bushwick, Brooklyn, that need repair.
COLD: Yolanda Feliciano did not have heat in her Bronx apartment for most of the winter and eventually left to stay with friends.
DANGEROUS: Exposed electrical wiring in Luis Matute's apartment. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BOTTOM PHOTO, CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.RE6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (70%); CENSUS (62%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



321 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: A Storm May Lift The Heat

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
FRIDAY'S market plunge aside, the mood on Wall Street has improved noticeably since the Federal Reserve cut interest rates sharply and helped rescue Bear Stearns from a potential collapse last month. The Dow Jones industrial average has recovered more than 350 points, the troubled financial sector has soared by around 10 percent, and volatility has died down considerably.
 What's not to like? 
 Well, some market watchers would actually prefer volatility to be climbing, not falling.
 While few people relish 200-point single-day stock market declines like Friday's, rocky periods serve some useful purposes for long-term investors. Stocks don't always lose ground in a volatile market, and even down days create buying opportunities. More important, market shocks tend to scare away investors who lack conviction, setting the stage for a rebound. In fact, history has shown that market sell-offs often end after investor fear reaches this heightened stage.
 Consider the bear market of 2000 to 2002. On Oct. 9, 2002, the end of that downturn, volatility was near record levels. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, soared to a reading of 45.1 that day, or roughly three times its long-term average of around 15.
 ''What this market really needs is for investors to say, 'Oh no, what's the next shoe that's going to fall,' '' said Robert D. Arnott, chairman of Research Affiliates, an investment management firm in Pasadena, Calif.
 Yet throughout this downturn, stock volatility hasn't come close to reaching levels that have historically signaled market capitulation -- panic selling that leads to a market bottom, setting up a sharp rally.
 To be sure, market gyrations have become more pronounced in recent months. So far this year, the Dow has lost more than 200 points on 11 different days, and it has soared more than 200 points on six days. Heightened volatility can be a source of great profit to people who trade options based on the VIX and other indexes.
 In March, amid growing fears related to the credit crisis and a possible recession, the VIX -- which measures the market's expectations of volatility in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index -- momentarily climbed above 30.
 Still, that was nothing compared with the movements in the 2000-2002 bear market. And ''it's not even comparable to the intense volatility we saw at the end of 1998, when there was a meltdown of emerging-market debt triggered by Russia's default,'' Mr. Arnott said. Back then, the VIX reached 45.7.
 What's more, the VIX has fallen back in recent days, to the low 20s. ''That's not capitulation,'' Mr. Arnott said. ''That's just an ordinary run-of-the-mill spike of temporary above-average volatility.''
 As a result, many market strategists find it hard to say whether this downturn is over. Based purely on historical measures, ''it does not appear to us that volatility has become severe enough to signal that the worst is behind us,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist for Standard & Poor's Equity Research. Mr. Arnott says the VIX would have to climb back above 30 -- ''and stay there for a while'' -- before he's convinced that there is enough fear in the market.
 BUT here's a bigger worry: What if we never see that level of fear during this downturn? James B. Stack, editor of the InvesTech Market Analyst, an investing newsletter published in Whitefish, Mont., noted that the aggressive moves made by the Fed recently have had ''a stabilizing effect on the market.''
 While the central bank's six rate cuts haven't turned this year's market losses into gains, they have ''helped calm some of the market's volatility measures,'' he said.
 In fact, since the Fed's most recent cut in March, the VIX has fallen around 25 percent. ''The aggressiveness of Fed easing,'' he said, ''could lessen or even eliminate the possibility of seeing that final capitulation that normally accompanies the end of a bear market.'' 
 This could mean that the market might not have to be driven to such frenzy to heal itself. But it could also make it harder for investors to judge whether the market is ready to rally.
 Robert C. Doll, global chief investment officer for equities at BlackRock, the investment management firm, says he thinks the worst market shocks may be over. ''We've probably passed the point of maximum uncertainty in the market,'' he said, ''which means logically we've probably passed the point of maximum volatility as well.'' 
 Mr. Stovall of S.& P. said that this was a distinct possibility. Moreover, it is possible that a bull market rally, under these circumstances, may not need to be preceded by a dramatic bout of panic selling. But the downside would be that investors might not know for months that the worst was over -- and that the subsequent market recovery might also be muted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%)

COMPANY: CBOE HOLDINGS INC (68%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: CBOE (NASDAQ) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (68%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



322 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Extended Forecast: Bloodshed

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Here's a forecast for a particularly bizarre consequence of climate change: more executions of witches.
 As we pump out greenhouse gases, most of the discussion focuses on direct consequences like rising seas or aggravated hurricanes. But the indirect social and political impact in poor countries may be even more far-reaching, including upheavals and civil wars -- and even more witches hacked to death with machetes.
 In rural Tanzania, murders of elderly women accused of witchcraft are a very common form of homicide. And when Tanzania suffers unusual rainfall -- either drought or flooding -- witch-killings double, according to research by Edward Miguel, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley. 
 ''In bad years, the killings explode,'' Professor Miguel said. He believes that if climate change causes more drought years in Tanzania, the result will be more elderly women executed there and in other poor countries that still commonly attack supposed witches.
 There is evidence that European witch-burnings in past centuries may also have resulted from climate variations and the resulting crop failures, economic distress and search for scapegoats. Emily Oster, a University of Chicago economist, tracked witchcraft trials and weather in Western Europe between 1520 and 1770 and found a close correlation: colder weather led to more crackdowns on witches.
 In particular, Europe's ''little ice age'' led to a sharp cooling in the late 1500s, and that corresponds to a renewal in witchcraft trials after a long lull. And there's also micro-evidence: in one area, a brutally cold May in 1626 led outraged peasants to call for punishment of witches thought responsible. Some scholars have also argued that the Salem witch trials occurred after a particularly cold winter and economically difficult period.
 The point is that climate change will have consequences that will be difficult to foresee but will go far beyond weather or economics. There is abundant evidence that economic stress and crop failures -- as climate scientists anticipate in poor countries -- can lead to violence and upheavals.
 In the United States, for example, some historians have found correlations between recessions or declines in farm values and increased lynchings of blacks.
 Paul Collier, an Oxford University expert on global poverty, found that economic stagnation in poor countries leads to a rising risk of civil war. Professor Collier warns that climate change is likely to reduce rainfall in southern Africa enough that corn will no longer be a viable crop there. Since corn is a major form of sustenance in that region, the result may be catastrophic food shortages -- and civil conflict.
 The area that may be hardest hit of all -- aside from islands that disappear beneath the waves -- is the fragile Sahel region south of the Sahara Desert in West Africa. The Sahel is already impoverished and torn by religious and ethnic tensions, and reduced rainfall could push the region into warfare.
 ''The poorest people on Earth are in the Sahel, barely eking out an existence, and climate change pushes them over the edge,'' Professor Miguel said. ''It's totally unfair.''
 His research suggests that a drought one year increases by 50 percent the risk that an African country will slip into civil war the next year. 
 Ethnic conflict in Darfur was exacerbated by drought and competition for water, and some experts see it as the first war caused by climate change. That's too simplistic, for the crucial factor was simply the ruthlessness of the Sudanese government, but climate change may well have been a contributing factor.
 In a forthcoming book, ''Economic Gangsters,'' Mr. Miguel calls for a new system of emergency aid for countries suffering unusual drought or similar economic shocks. Such temporary aid would aim to reduce the risk of warfare that, once it has begun, is enormously costly to stop and often damages neighboring countries as well.
 The greenhouse gases that imperil Africa's future are spewing from the United States, China and Europe. The people in Bangladesh and Africa emit almost no carbon, yet they are the ones who will bear the greatest risks of climate change. Some experts believe that the damage that the West does to poor countries from carbon emissions exceeds the benefit from aid programs.
 All this makes the United States' reluctance to confront climate change in a serious way -- like a carbon tax to replace the payroll tax, coupled with global leadership on the issue -- as unjust as it is unfortunate.
 So let's remember that the stakes with climate change are broader than hotter summers or damaged beach houses. The most dire consequences of our denial and delay may include civil war -- and even witch-killings -- among the poorest peoples on earth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DROUGHT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WITCHCRAFT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); WEATHER (78%); FARM LABOR (77%); HURRICANES (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MURDER (76%); HISTORY (76%); CIVIL WAR (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); HOMICIDE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); RELIGION (64%); DESERTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAHARA DESERT (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%) TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (92%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



323 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3309 words

HEADLINE: A Lender Failed. Did Its Auditor?

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH he had been with the mortgage lender New Century Financial for only two months, Tajvinder S. Bindra had spent a good part of late 2006 and early 2007 pelting the company's controller and a member of its auditing firm, KPMG, with questions about the company's accounting.
 Frustrated by their responses and staring down a deadline to close New Century's year-end books, Mr. Bindra, the company's chief financial officer, told both men that he needed written assurances from KPMG that New Century's bookkeeping was proper, according to accounts of the discussions. 
 But KPMG balked. A few weeks later, on Jan. 31, 2007, KPMG and New Century's own accountants stunned the company's board by revealing that the lender had incorrectly calculated its reserves for troubled home loans. That mistake was likely to cost New Century $300 million, wiping out all of its profits from the second half of 2006. 
 Two months later, New Century, one of the largest subprime mortgage lenders in the country, would be bankrupt.
 New Century's collapse ushered in a series of failures among mortgage lenders -- ultimately rocking global financial markets, forcing banks around the world to write down or take losses on nearly $250 billion in mortgage-linked securities and sending the nation's housing market into a tailspin.
 As homeowners, shareholders and federal investigators pick through the subprime wreckage, many have asked how effectively front-line financial monitors carried out their duties. Ratings agencies responsible for signing off on the creditworthiness of securities, and regulators responsible for overseeing banking practices and safeguarding the entire financial system, have already been roundly criticized for not sounding alarms earlier. 
 Now, attention is turning toward yet another steward of financial reporting ensnared in the subprime debacle: accounting firms. 
 While accounting firms don't exert legal or regulatory authority over their clients, they do bestow seals of approval, the way ratings agencies do. People in the financial industry, as well as investors, have reason to believe that a green light from an auditor means that a company's accounting practices have passed muster. 
 Accounting practices drew increased scrutiny after Enron collapsed and its auditor, Arthur Andersen, went out of business in 2002 amid a federal prosecution. Analysts say the mortgage crisis may not result in criminal charges against auditors, but it is certain to renew interest in how accountants conducted themselves. 
 The interpretive waltz between a company and its auditor, of course, can be complicated and open to varying perceptions. But New Century's accounting and KPMG's review of the mortgage lender's financial statements offer a window onto some of the problematic practices that helped lead to the mortgage bust.
 A recently unsealed report by an examiner for the United States Bankruptcy Court in Delaware raises the question of whether New Century's accounting obscured an early signal that the mortgage freight train was about to run off the rails.
 New Century's accounting methods let it prop up profits, charming investors and allowing the company to continue to tap a rich vein of Wall Street cash that it used to underwrite more mortgages. Without the appearance of a strong bottom line, New Century's financial lifeline could have been cut even earlier than it was.
 ''It would have had widespread repercussions for the lenders who were buying loans from New Century,'' Zach Gast, an analyst at the research firm RiskMetrics, said about the possible impact of an earlier profit warning from the lender. ''It may have even accelerated the whole downturn of the subprime market.'' 
 Still, some accounting experts question how appropriate it is to take auditors to task for judgment calls that, even in hindsight, are hard to make. 
 ''I think it's a stretch to blame everything on the accounting profession,'' said David Aboody, a professor of accounting at the University of California, Los Angeles. ''What does the S.E.C. want? Does it want an auditor who tries to predict the future? Or does it want an auditor to record what is clearly going on at the time?''
 ANALYSTS say that auditors, because of in-depth knowledge of complex accounting rules and first-hand relationships with corporate management, are there to push back, examining how executives calculate numbers and assessing the financial health of enterprises.
 In New Century's case, the court examiner, Michael J. Missal, concluded that KPMG was not skeptical enough and that the lender's creditors could pursue negligence and negligent misrepresentation claims against the auditor. But the examiner did not accuse KPMG of fraud or intentional wrongdoing. The examiner said he also ''did not find sufficient evidence to conclude that New Century engaged in earnings management or manipulation.''
 KPMG strongly contests any suggestion that it was derelict in its duties or that it went overboard trying to retain a well-paying client. It resigned from its New Century engagement shortly after the lender filed for bankruptcy, and it never completed the audit of the lender's statements for 2006, the year in which New Century's accounting was at its most improper, according to the examiner.
 KPMG says that it's unclear whether the examiner's conclusions are derived from objective evidence available at the time it worked for New Century, or simply represent assumptions that are now being made in hindsight.
 ''The examiner was appointed by the court to identify potential lawsuits in a bankruptcy case,'' said Kathleen M. Fitzgerald, a KPMG spokeswoman. ''Consistent with that charge, he has prepared an advocacy piece, which has many one-sided statements and significant omissions. In the end, the examiner concluded that the bankruptcy estate may be able to file a lawsuit against KPMG for negligence -- a claim we strongly dispute -- and a claim even the examiner notes in his report for which KPMG has strong defenses.''
 Even so, the examiner's report has signaled to some analysts that something may have gone seriously awry in KPMG's relationship with New Century.
 ''Allegations that an auditing firm didn't engage in due professional care and made recommendations that are inconsistent with GAAP must be taken very seriously,'' said Kathleen M. Hamm, a former senior enforcement official at the Securities and Exchange Commission, referring to the ''generally accepted accounting principles'' that public companies must follow. Ms. Hamm is now a managing director at a consulting firm, the Promontory Financial Group.
 The examiner's investigation is also the latest in a string of embarrassing episodes for KPMG. In March, Xerox and KPMG settled a securities lawsuit relating to decade-old accusations of accounting manipulations. And KPMG has been criticized for its audit of the Federal National Mortgage Association, after it was revealed that the company, known as Fannie Mae, had overstated its earnings by billions of dollars over several years. 
 And, finally, nearly three years ago, federal prosecutors came within an eyelash of filing criminal charges against KPMG over dubious tax shelters it set up for clients, leading to a deferred prosecution agreement and a wrenching internal investigation.
 ''For KPMG, this comes on the heels of all of the tax-shelter stuff, and they just got rid of having a court-appointed examiner, so this is difficult for them,'' said Jack Ciesielski, editor of The Analyst's Accounting Observer, a trade publication.
 FROM the 11-story glass-and-steel tower that housed its headquarters in Irvine, Calif., New Century ruled during the recent housing boom as one of the nation's largest lenders to individuals with weak, or subprime, credit.
 The company's three founders, Robert K. Cole, Edward F. Gotschall and Bradley A. Morrice, met while working at the same mortgage bank in the early 1990s. They founded New Century in 1995, and KPMG became the company's auditor.
 At the epicenter of the subprime boom, New Century and its founders grew wealthy as the company's stock soared. The company churned out billions of dollars worth of subprime mortgages, many of which it then sold to Wall Street banks. And, quarter after quarter, it generated robust earnings. 
 Behind the scenes, however, the explosive growth at New Century shot beyond the company's internal controls and policies as well as the managerial abilities of some of its key executives, the bankruptcy court examiner concluded. 
 For instance, the examiner said in his report that the company did not have a formal policy spelling out exactly how to calculate reserves it might need to repurchase loans if Wall Street rejected them. The lender also used simple spreadsheets to evaluate its own mortgage securities holdings, the examiner said. KPMG flagged some of these shortcomings to the management, but because KPMG considered them to be ''inconsequential,'' they were not reported publicly, according to the examiner's study.
 The relationship between New Century's executives and board and KPMG also became strained as early as the end of 2005, the examiner report said.
 Some members of New Century's board were uncomfortable with what they believed was a lack of acumen displayed by certain accounting and financial managers at the company. Others, like the director Richard A. Zona, appeared to have had early concerns about whether the company was being conservative and thorough enough in various aspects of its accounting.
 In one of two resignation letters that Mr. Zona drafted in late 2005 but never submitted to the board, he called New Century's management team ''dysfunctional.'' A former vice chairman of U.S. Bancorp and a former partner at Ernst & Young, Mr. Zona told the examiner he had not left the board because other directors persuaded him to stay. 
 A lawyer representing New Century's former directors said Mr. Zona and other directors declined to comment.
 According to the report, Mr. Zona and some of his fellow directors did ask New Century's management and KPMG whether the lender was setting aside enough money to repurchase loans rejected by Wall Street. 
 In 2005 and 2006, the number of mortgages sent back to New Century skyrocketed as some borrowers became delinquent in payments as early as the first few months after taking out a loan, indicating shoddy lending practices, according to the report.
 On the evening of Sept. 7, 2006, a senior New Century executive, Kevin Cloyd, sent an e-mail message to the chief executive, Mr. Morrice, and Patti M. Dodge, the company's chief financial officer, saying, ''We got our teeth kicked in with regard to repurchase requests in Aug. and thus far in September,'' according to the examiner's report.
 An hour later, Mr. Morrice sent a livid e-mail response, criticizing Mr. Cloyd for the timing of this revelation, especially because it came shortly ''after sending a positive report'' to New Century's board. 
 Yet the very next day, New Century issued a press release about its August lending levels, which it said had climbed 9 percent from July. Saying it had ''strict underwriting guidelines'' and ''skilled risk management,'' the company asserted in the release that the increase in repurchases because of early-payment defaults at the end of August ''has been modest.''
 Despite the internal misgivings, the company made no effort to recall or correct the press release, according to the examiner's report. Mr. Cloyd did not return phone calls. Ms. Dodge could not be reached. And a lawyer representing Mr. Morrice did not return calls.
 Although New Century sold more than $40 billion in loans in the first nine months of 2006, it had reserved only $13.9 million as of Sept. 30 that year to repurchase loans, according to the firm's securities filings. Those filings were not audited by KPMG, but they were reviewed by the firm.
 The reserve was woefully inadequate, according to the examiner's report. By the end of September 2006, New Century already had $400 million in pending repurchase requests -- meaning that the $13.9 million it had set aside represented just 3.5 percent of that troubled pool of loans. Officials in New Century's accounting department and on the KPMG audit team told the examiner that they were not aware of the rising backlog of repurchase claims.
 The examiner asserted that New Century had made two glaring errors in how it calculated its repurchase reserves: first, it assumed that it would be asked to buy back only loans sold in the previous three months, though it was fielding requests for loans it sold as much as a year earlier. 
 ''New Century and KPMG each share responsibility for failing to correct the repurchase reserve calculation methodology that permitted the backlog claims to be excluded from the repurchase reserve through all accounting periods,'' the examiner's report said. He said New Century provided information to KPMG officials that showed pending repurchase claims totaled $188 million at the end of 2005, adding that that ''should have made KPMG investigate the issue.''
 But Ms. Fitzgerald said KPMG determined that the reserve for 2005 was appropriate and added that the ''examiner's report itself makes clear that even if the entire $188 million of repurchase claims were separately considered, the estimated result would have been only $8 million of increased reserves against reported net income of over $400 million.''
 Second, in the summer of 2006, the company simply stopped estimating the losses on loans it would have to buy back, a breach of standard accounting practices, according to the examiner. 
 New Century's low reserve levels, meanwhile, were catching the attention of outside analysts. In reports in November and December of 2006, Mr. Gast of RiskMetrics said he believed that the company was setting aside far too little to buy back loans. The reports created a stir at New Century, and the accounting department prepared a rebuttal.
 Settling into his new job, Mr. Bindra, the chief financial officer who succeeded Ms. Dodge in November, raised the issues in Mr. Gast's report with New Century's controller, David Kenneally, and the KPMG partner in charge of New Century's audit, John Donovan, according to the examiner's report and interviews with former New Century executives who requested anonymity because of their concerns about being entangled in litigation. 
 Until late January, according to the report, Mr. Kenneally defended the company's reserve calculations. After that, the report said, Mr. Donovan told him that a further accounting review showed that New Century had made a mistake.
 Mr. Kenneally's lawyer declined to comment, and KPMG declined to make Mr. Donovan available for comment. Mr. Bindra's lawyer also declined to make him available.
 By underreserving, New Century was able to show still-rising profits in the second quarter and declining, yet positive, earnings in the third quarter of 2006. Had New Century been more conservative about its reserves, second-quarter profits would have been halved and it would have reported a loss in the third quarter, the examiner determined.
 Eventually, these problems burst into public view. In March 2007, after New Century disclosed that it would need to restate its earnings and would probably be shown as unprofitable during the last six months of the previous year, its lenders pulled the plug on the company. In April, it filed for bankruptcy. 
 But some experts say that regardless of what KPMG did, New Century would have collapsed.
 ''The business model of New Century depended on real estate values that would continue to go up and certainly not go down,'' said Roman L. Weil, an accounting professor at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. ''The economic model here is what is at fault. It's the cause of what happened, not anything that KPMG did.'' 
 AMONG the ''Big Four'' auditing firms, KPMG is the smallest. Yet it is the go-to auditor for banking and financial services firms and real-estate investment trusts like New Century, according to Audit Analytics, an independent research firm. Deloitte & Touche and Ernst & Young also have many financial services clients.
 KPMG is the auditor for such prominent mortgage players as Wells Fargo, Citigroup, HSBC Finance, Countrywide Financial and Thornburg Mortgage, according to an examination of annual reports. 
 Those relationships put KPMG in a potentially vulnerable spot as authorities increased their scrutiny of the subprime business. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has said it has 17 continuing investigations of possible corporate and accounting fraud related to subprime lending. That number, the F.B.I has said, is likely to increase.
 Although federal prosecutors are examining the trading activities of New Century executives, KPMG is not a target of the inquiry, according to a person briefed on the matter who wasn't authorized to speak publicly.
 Moreover, the appetite for prosecuting accounting firms has diminished since Arthur Andersen was convicted of obstruction of justice as part of the Enron investigation, according to analysts. In 2005, the Supreme Court overturned that conviction, but it was too late to save the firm. With only four large accounting firms left, the government is unlikely to push any of them too hard, experts say.
 ''The Justice Department learned from its prosecution of Arthur Andersen that threatening entire firms jeopardizes our system of private auditing,'' said Lawrence A. Cunningham, a professor at the George Washington University Law School. ''What's vital is that individuals be held responsible for wrongdoing.'' 
 A MORE likely threat to auditing firms and mortgage companies could be civil, rather than criminal, lawsuits. Shareholders have already filed a raft of lawsuits against lenders that failed or whose stocks have dropped sharply. In some cases, shareholders are trying to add the auditors as defendants. 
 In January, New York City and New York State pension funds that are leading a class-action lawsuit against Countrywide added its auditors, KPMG and Grant Thornton, as defendants. KPMG declined to comment on the suit. A spokesman for Grant Thornton said the firm was confident it would be dropped from the suit because it had not audited Countrywide for four years.
 Last week, liquidators of two hedge funds run by Bear Stearns sued the bank and its auditor, Deloitte & Touche. They contend that the firms hid the true financial risks and health of the funds, which invested in mortgage-linked securities. Bear Stearns declined to comment, and, in a statement, Deloitte said that the suit was without merit and that the firm intended to defend itself.
 It is unclear whether the creditors in the New Century bankruptcy will try to recoup losses from KPMG. Even the court examiner, Mr. Missal, notes in his report that creditors of New Century could pursue negligence claims against KPMG but that such a case could be hard to win. 
 Even if KPMG is safe from large damages and a criminal prosecution, Lynn E. Turner, a former chief accountant at the S.E.C., said the findings were still troubling.
 ''The examiner cites different pieces of evidence that do raise concerns about whether or not you had an honest-to-goodness independent audit going on,'' Mr. Turner said.
 For its part, KPMG says that it faithfully carried out its professional duties.
 ''It is very easy -- and totally unreasonable -- to look at decisions made in 2005 or 2006 through a 2008 lens,'' said Ms. Fitzgerald, the KPMG spokeswoman. ''The full record shows that KPMG acted in accordance with professional standards. We will vigorously defend our audit work in the appropriate forum, which will allow for a complete hearing of the facts.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Zach Gast of RiskMetrics said better accounting at New Century would have raised flags sooner, perhaps tempering the subprime fiasco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JEAN-FRANCOIS MARTIN)
 A SECOND LOOK AT THE BOOKS: A bankruptcy court examiner recently determined that profits at New Century in 2005 and 2006 were inflated by several accounting mistakes, especially a shortage in a reserve account used to buy back loans that Wall Street didn't want. (Sources: Company filings and bankruptcy examiner's report) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); AUDITS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: KPMG (95%); NEW CENTURY FINANCIAL CORP (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (95%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (95%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (92%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



324 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: The Petraeus-Crocker Show Gets the Hook

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
THE night before last week's Senate hearings on our ''progress'' in Iraq, a goodly chunk of New York's media and cultural establishment assembled in the vast lobby of the Museum of Modern Art. There were cocktails; there were waiters wielding platters of hors d'oeuvres; there was a light sprinkling of paparazzi. Then there was a screening. We trooped like schoolchildren to the auditorium to watch a grueling movie about the torture at Abu Ghraib.
 Not just any movie, but ''Standard Operating Procedure,'' the new investigatory documentary by Errol Morris, one of our most original filmmakers. It asks the audience not just to revisit the crimes in graphic detail but to confront in tight close-up those who both perpetrated and photographed them. Because Mr. Morris has a complex view of human nature, he arouses a certain sympathy for his subjects, much as he did at times for Robert McNamara, the former defense secretary, in his Vietnam film, ''Fog of War.'' 
 More sympathy, actually. Only a few bad apples at the bottom of the chain of command took the fall for Abu Ghraib. No one above the level of staff sergeant went to jail, and no one remotely in proximity to a secretary of defense has been held officially accountable. John Yoo, the author of the notorious 2003 Justice Department memo rationalizing torture, has happily returned to his tenured position as a law professor at the University of California, Berkeley. So when Mr. Morris brings you face to face with Lynndie England -- now a worn, dead-eyed semblance of the exuberant, almost pixie-ish miscreant in the Abu Ghraib snapshots -- you're torn. 
 Ms. England, who is now on parole, concedes that what she and her cohort did was ''unusual and weird and wrong,'' but adds that ''when we first got there, the example was already set.'' That reflection doesn't absolve her of moral responsibility, but, like much in this film, it forces you to look beyond the fixed images of one of the most documented horror stories of our time. 
 Yet I must confess that, sitting in MoMA, I kept looking beyond the frame of Mr. Morris's movie as well. While there's really no right place to watch ''Standard Operating Procedure,'' the jarring contrast between the film's subject and the screening's grandiosity was a particularly glaring illustration of the huge distance that separates most Americans, and not just Manhattan elites, from the battle lines of our country's five-year war. If Tom Wolfe was not in the audience to chronicle this cognitive dissonance, he should have been. 
 Mr. Morris's movie starts fanning out to theaters on April 25. We don't have to wait until then to know its fate. Sympathetic critics will tell us it's our civic duty to see it. The usual suspects will try to besmirch Mr. Morris's patriotism. But none of that will much matter. ''Standard Operating Procedure'' will reach the director's avid core audience, but it is likely to be avoided by most everyone else no matter what praise or controversy it whips up.
 It would take another column to list all the movies and TV shows about Iraq that have gone belly up at the box office or in Nielsen ratings in the nearly four years since the war's only breakout commercial success, ''Fahrenheit 9/11.'' They die regardless of their quality or stand on the war, whether they star Tommy Lee Jones (''In the Valley of Elah'') or Meryl Streep (''Lions for Lambs'') or are produced by Steven Bochco (the FX series ''Over There'') or are marketed like Abercrombie & Fitch apparel to the MTV young (''Stop-Loss''). 
 As The New York Times recently reported, box-office dread has driven one Hollywood distributor to repeatedly postpone the release of ''The Lucky Ones,'' a highly regarded and sympathetic feature about the war's veterans, the first made with full Army assistance, even though the word Iraq is never spoken and the sole battle sequence runs 40 seconds. If Iraq had been mentioned in ''Knocked Up'' or ''Superbad,'' Judd Apatow's hilarious hit comedies about young American guys who (like most of their peers) never consider the volunteer Army as an option, they might have flopped too. Iraq is to moviegoers what garlic is to vampires.
 This is not merely a showbiz phenomenon but a leading indicator of where our entire culture is right now. It's not just torture we want to avoid. Most Americans don't want to hear, see or feel anything about Iraq, whether they support the war or oppose it. They want to look away, period, and have been doing so for some time.
 That's why last week's testimony by Gen. David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker was a nonevent beyond Washington. The cable networks duly presented the first day of hearings, but only, it seemed, because the show could be hyped as an ''American Idol''-like competition in foreign-policy one-upmanship for the three remaining presidential candidates, all senators. When the hearings migrated to the House the next day, they vanished into the same black media hole where nearly all Iraq news now goes. If the Olympic torch hadn't provided an excuse to cut away, no doubt any handy weather disturbance would have served instead.
 The simple explanation for why we shun the war is that it has gone so badly. But another answer was provided in the hearings by Senator George Voinovich of Ohio, one of the growing number of Republican lawmakers who no longer bothers to hide his exasperation. He put his finger on the collective sense of shame (not to be confused with collective guilt) that has attended America's Iraq project. ''The truth of the matter,'' Mr. Voinovich said, is that ''we haven't sacrificed one darn bit in this war, not one. Never been asked to pay for a dime, except for the people that we lost.''
 This is how the war planners wanted it, of course. No new taxes, no draft, no photos of coffins, no inconveniences that might compel voters to ask tough questions. This strategy would have worked if the war had been the promised cakewalk. But now it has backfired. A home front that has not been asked to invest directly in a war, that has subcontracted it to a relatively small group of volunteers, can hardly be expected to feel it has a stake in the outcome five stalemated years on. 
 The original stakes (saving the world from mushroom clouds and an alleged ally of Osama bin Laden) evaporated so far back they seem to belong to another war entirely. What are the stakes we are asked to believe in now? In the largely unwatched House hearings on Wednesday, Representative Robert Wexler, a Florida Democrat, tried to get at this by asking what some 4,000 ''sons and daughters'' of America had died for. 
 The best General Petraeus could muster was a bit of bloodless Beltway-speak -- ''national interests'' -- followed by another halfhearted attempt to overstate Iraq's centrality to the war on Al Qaeda and a future war on Iran. He couldn't even argue that we're on a humanitarian mission on behalf of the Iraqi people. That would require him to acknowledge that roughly five million of those people, 60 percent of them children, are now refugees receiving scant help from either our government or Nuri al-Maliki's. That's nearly a fifth of the Iraqi population -- the equivalent of 60 million Americans -- and another source of our shame.
 The prevailing verdict on the Petraeus-Crocker show is that it accomplished little beyond certifying President Bush's intention to kick the can to January 2009 so that the helicopters will vacate the Green Zone on the next president's watch. That's true, but by week's end,I became more convinced than ever that in January we'll have a new policy that includes serious withdrawals and serious conversations with Mr. Maliki's pals in Iran, even if John McCain becomes president. 
 General Petraeus and Mr. Crocker define victory as ''sustainable security'' in Iraq. But both Colin Powell and Gen. Richard Cody, the Army's vice chief of staff, said last week that current troop levels in Iraq and Afghanistan are unsustainable and are damaging America's readiness to meet other security threats. And that's not all that's unsustainable. An ailing economy can't keep floating the war's $3-billion-a-week cost. A Republican president intent on staying the Bush course will find his vetoes unsustainable after the Democrats increase their majorities in Congress in November. No war can be fought indefinitely if the public has irrevocably turned against it. 
 Mr. McCain says Americans want ''victory,'' whatever that means today, and yes, they would if it could be won on the terms promised by Mr. Bush five years ago -- fast, and with minimal sacrifice. It's way too late to ask for years of stepped-up sacrifice now in the cause of a highly debatable definition of ''national interests.''
 This war has lasted so long that Americans, even the bad apples of Abu Ghraib interviewed by Mr. Morris, have had the time to pass through all five of the Kubler-Ross stages of grief over its implosion. Though dead-enders like Mr. McCain may have only gone from denial to anger to bargaining, most others have moved on to depression and acceptance. Unable to even look at the fiasco anymore, the nation is now just waiting for someone to administer the last rites.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); FILM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); PAROLE (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); WRITERS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ACADEMIC TENURE (64%); CHILDREN (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (90%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



325 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2091 words

HEADLINE: In the Projects, Hope and Hard Knocks

BYLINE: By EMILY BRADY

 BODY:
IN 1991, the high crime rate at the Cypress Hills Houses in East New York, Brooklyn, made it the perfect setting for Mayor David Dinkins to announce a crackdown on illegal guns. It was a little too perfect, in fact. As the mayor spoke, shots rang out a block and a half away. People in the crowd screamed, some started to run and others ducked for cover. No one was injured, but the story added another chapter to the rough reputation of Cypress Hills. 
 The situation has improved greatly since Mr. Dinkins's foray into East New York. Crime has dropped even in places like Cypress Hills, a project of 15 seven-story buildings. In 1991, there were 107 murders recorded in the 75th Precinct, which includes Cypress Hills; last year, there were 33. Residents of Cypress, as many call it, now relish being able to sit on the benches outside their apartment buildings during the day, something that was once unimaginable. 
 But while things are better, Cypress can still be a grim place. When the project appears in the headlines, it is usually bad news: a woman burned to death, a murder on Christmas Eve, or a sweeping drug bust. In 2002, for example, 60 people were arrested in what Cypress residents call the Big Takedown, and another 31 were indicted after a similar sweep last April 25. 
 Besides crime, another constant is the daily struggle of the ordinary people at Cypress Hills. Whether in bad times or in less bad times, in everyday dramas that never make the headlines, the approximately 3,500 residents of the development strive to eke out a living, to raise their children and to steer clear of the cross-fire, both real and metaphorical, in a place where danger may ebb but never vanish. 
 Here are portraits of four regular citizens -- a teenager looking for a job, a retired welder, a mother of five, and a middle-aged worker for the Department of Homeland Security -- who call Cypress Hills home and try to make do, day by day. 
 The Laments of a Teenager
 Sometimes, when Efrain Garcia is heading home on the A train, he wishes it would roll through his Euclid Avenue stop and deposit him somewhere else. In his fantasy, somewhere else would be a place with large single-family homes, with nice cars in the driveways, and with jobs that are easy to find. 
 ''Everybody wants to live in a good neighborhood,'' he said in his soft-spoken way. ''It's the American Dream.'' 
 But the train always stops. And Mr. Garcia, a 19-year-old with a heart-shaped mouth who prefers to be called E, must walk down Euclid Avenue past narrow houses with bars on the windows and a gas station, to his home, a friend's couch at Cypress, or his brother's couch in a nearby apartment.
 The drawbacks to Cypress, he said, include the lack of a movie theater, the predominance of restaurants where all the food is deep-fried, and the difficulty of finding romance. 
 ''It's hard to get a girl when you live here, to tell a girl you're from East New York and live in the Cypress Hills projects,'' he said, laughing.
 Mr. Garcia knows that to move out of the neighborhood, he needs a job. Since he never made it past high school, the prospects have been bleak. Two years ago, he worked as a maintenance man and attendant at a local Laundromat. He then moved to Puerto Rico with his father, and when that did not work out he returned and got a job as a $9-an-hour stock boy in a Manhattan drugstore. But he hated the commute, lasted only a month, and has been unemployed since -- about five months. 
 ''I don't know why, but I can't get a steady job for nothing,'' Mr. Garcia said. He knows that many people in the area turn to selling drugs when they're unemployed, and he understands why. ''Sometimes that's all they can do,'' he said, shrugging. ''They might have a record on their case, they got kids to feed, and they can't get a job. They got to make their money.''
 One recent afternoon, he sat on the leather couch in a friend's living room. The nearby TV was lighted with the Xbox game Call of Duty, which he had just been playing with a friend. 
 When asked about the good side of Cypress, he replied: ''The friendships. When life is hard, people look out for each other here. When you don't got no money, they give you food, they give you shelter.'' 
 He then motioned to his friend's couch, the one he has slept on many a night.
 The Slow Lane of Retirement
 Herman Buchanan first came to Cypress Hills when he was a high school senior. The year was 1955, and Mr. Buchanan, a 70-year-old retired welder, remembers how spiffy the just-built housing project was. The walls in the apartment he shared with his mother and four siblings were freshly painted, the large expanses of lawn outside were so pristine that no one was allowed to walk on them, and the walkways themselves bustled with a multicultural mix of tenants: African-Americans, Jews, Italian-Americans and Jamaicans, like Mr. Buchanan and his family.
 In a word, ''beautiful.''
 The Buchanans bought a house in Bedford-Stuyvesant in 1959 and moved out. But in 1986, when Mr. Buchanan, his wife, Rita, and her two children applied for public housing, they were given a choice between Cypress Hills and the Marlboro Houses in Gravesend. For Mr. Buchanan, the choice was easy. Cypress was home.
 When the family settled into a two-bedroom apartment on Linden Boulevard, however, Mr. Buchanan quickly learned that Cypress had changed. Most of the white residents had left, the crack epidemic was in full swing and crime had skyrocketed. 
 ''There was a lot of killing,'' Mr. Buchanan said. ''They used to throw people off the roof and shoot at the cops when they came around.'' 
 Survival for Mr. Buchanan and his family meant keeping to themselves. ''We didn't bother anyone,'' he said. ''The only thing I worried about was a stray bullet.''
 A portly man with an immense smile, Mr. Buchanan contemplated getting a gun himself in the late 1990s, after he was mugged and beaten in Bedford-Stuyvesant. But the seller never came through and Mr. Buchanan figures he was better off for it. 
 ''The Lord was with me,'' he said. 
 Things are quieter at Cypress now than they were in those danger-filled days, although on some nights, especially around the holidays, Mr. Buchanan still hears gunfire. 
 During the day, Mr. Buchanan has settled into a retirement routine, shuttling between two local senior centers, where he is known affectionately as Mr. B. 
 The retired welder, who is a bit of a dandy, does his part to keep the scene interesting. One afternoon not long ago, he strode along in a pair of multicolored high-top sneakers. Mr. Buchanan still has his collection of suits -- with color-coordinated shoes from white to maroon -- and his wife likes to tease him that they've grown too tight. 
 ''I ain't got no money, but I got clothes,'' he'll say.
 When it's warm out, Mr. Buchanan likes to break up his routine and sit outside on one of the project's many benches and watch squirrels race and birds flutter. On these days, Cypress seems beautiful again. 
 A Mirror, Mom's Helper
 When Gail Lucas needs comfort, she turns to the mirror above the sink in her tiny bathroom. There, surrounded by wet towels and shampoo bottles, she begins a conversation with herself.
 ''Talking to the mirror,'' she calls it. 
 The face reflected back at her is smooth and unlined. Her head is covered with short, wiry dreadlocks that give her a carefree air, but her eyes are wells of sadness. There has been so much to tell the mirror. 
 When Ms. Lucas moved to Cypress Hills in 1993, she was 30, and the mother of two young boys and a girl. She had recently left the children's father, but she quickly adapted to life in public housing and met a man there, with whom she had two more sons. 
 But bringing up her five children in a crime-ridden place was like trying to hold onto their hands while caught in a riptide -- her oldest sons were eventually swept away.
 For Delon, the first born, trouble started at age 14, when he joined the Bloods, a notorious gang. Soon, he stopped going to school and would vanish for days at a time. 
 ''If I had handcuffs, I would have locked him to the radiator,'' Ms. Lucas said. After he spiraled further out of control, she asked him to leave. 
 Six years ago, Delon was arrested for the murder of a 13-year-old boy in Bedford-Stuyvesant. He was 18 at the time. He and his girlfriend were accused of beating the boy with a baseball bat and stabbing him in a dispute over a dollar. Delon pleaded guilty to second-degree murder and was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison. 
 His actions have haunted his mother ever since. ''It's devastating,'' she said. ''It hurts your heart that you raised someone who grew up to kill someone.'' 
 She turned to the mirror a lot during that time. ''It kept me from going crazy,'' she said.
 Ms. Lucas continued, ''You can be the best parent in the world, but when they walk out that door, they get with those kids wearing $100 shoes that I can't afford, and they want it, too.''
 Chase, her second son, has had drug-related legal trouble, too. During the mass drug bust at Cypress last April, a teenage girl raced to Ms. Lucas's apartment to tell her that Chase had been detained. He is still at Rikers Island, but Ms. Lucas hopes that he will be released before his 18th birthday in June. 
 Ms. Lucas has three children left at home: Jazmen, her daughter, who is 19; Kamoni, a doe-eyed 9-year-old whom everyone calls Shysha; and Nas-Zhyer, an impish 2-year-old. If her mirror could grant her a wish, Ms. Lucas said, she would move them far away, to a house with a porch. ''A place,'' she said, ''where you could have peace of mind.''
 The Town Mayor of Cypress Hills
 In front of the boxy brick building on Sutter Avenue where Dwayne Faison lives, the walkway widens as it merges into the sidewalk and city street. Many young men have died on this walkway, and Mr. Faison has had a direct view of the carnage from his apartment.
 ''I saw at least 10 kids get killed here in the 1980s,'' Mr. Faison said, gazing out from his living-room window onto the pavement. ''When I mean kids, not one was past 20.'' 
 The violence has slowed, but Mr. Faison still sees bodies fall. The last murder on the walkway occurred on Christmas Eve, when a man named Jermaine Doran was shot. Rumor has it he was killed over a dice game. 
 For a few weeks, the spot was marked with a flimsy cardboard memorial and a couple of candles. And then those items were gone, and the traces of Mr. Doran's killing faded away like so many others. 
 Mr. Faison was struck by how nonchalantly Mr. Doran's friends reacted to news of his death. ''It was like 'Oh well, another one gone,' '' Mr. Faison said. ''They're immune to it.''
 Raised in the nearby Pink Houses project, Mr. Faison, 49, moved to Cypress in 1971. He is a compact, energetic man, who exclaims ''Wowee!'' when he's surprised, and often bursts into contagious laughter. 
 Mr. Faison works full time as an immigration agent for the Department of Homeland Security, but he is also a local activist -- the chairman of the Public Safety Committee of Community Board 5 and a former tenant association president, for example -- who battles the problems of East New York life with the fervor of a newcomer. 
 ''They call me the troublemaker,'' he said, laughing. Among other things, he has patrolled the Cypress grounds with a police officer to help people feel safe, found money to set up a recording studio in the community center, and organized bus trips to the countryside for children who have never ventured outside the city. 
 As his mother did, Mr. Faison opens his house to young people in need. ''My mom was everybody's mom,'' he said. ''I have five brothers and one sister, and about a dozen more that I call my siblings because my mom took in so many.'' He himself is a father of two, but he has raised five children.
 Walking through the project with Mr. Faison is part history tour, part reunion. One recent afternoon, coming upon a playground that he had helped to install a decade ago, he said, ''It's falling apart and we have to take it out.'' The small green structure looked lonely without a gaggle of kids crawling over it. 
 As he pointed out other sites of interest, including a building once overrun by a deadly gang, he was greeted by nearly everyone who crossed his path. They included an older woman with a plastic shopping bag, and two teenagers, wearing enormous leather jackets, who coolly nodded their heads in his direction.
 ''What up, D?'' one of them said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Friends are the upside of living in a project, said Efrain Garcia, 19, above. But the downsides, he said, are daunting.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. CY1)
Cypress Hills Houses has 15 buildings, 3,500 residents and a history of drug trouble.
Gail Lucas hopes to shield her family from life's pitfalls.
If Cypress has problems, Dwayne Faison is the fixer.
 Herman Buchanan, with his wife, Rita, socializes at senior centers and likes multicolored sneakers.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. CY8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); INDICTMENTS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); ARRESTS (73%); CHILDREN (69%); TRAINS (65%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (62%); CHRISTMAS (51%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (50%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



326 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: In Wake of Protests, Haiti Leader Announces Rice Subsidies

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY 

 BODY:
Responding to violent street protests against rising food prices that ground Haiti to a halt over the last week, President Rene Preval announced subsidies on Saturday that he said would cut the cost of rice by more than 15 percent.
 But the emergency move was not enough to stop Haitian senators from voting to remove Mr. Preval's prime minister, Jacques-Edouard Alexis, who has been blamed for handling the struggling economy ineptly. 
 The demonstrations had begun in the southern city of Les Cayes and spread across Haiti, drawing tens of thousands of people into the streets, spurring a looting spree and causing five deaths.
 On Saturday the commander of the United Nations peacekeeping force in Haiti told reporters that calm was returning to the country. But within hours, a United Nations policeman from Nigeria was pulled from his marked car and killed in Port-au-Prince.
 Mr. Preval, a former agronomist who is in his second term as president, met earlier in the day with food importers at the presidential palace and emerged to announce new measures that he said would knock the price of a 50-pound bag of rice from $51 to $43, a nearly 16 percent reduction. In the poorest country in the hemisphere, that discount could mean the difference between eating and going hungry for many destitute families.
 Rice is a Haitian staple, often mixed in the slums with chicken feet to create a flavorful stew. To reduce prices, Mr. Preval said he would use international aid money combined with commitments from the private sector to reduce profit margins. 
 The vote against Prime Minister Alexis means Mr. Preval must reconstitute his government, which he said he would do promptly. Mr. Alexis had managed to withstand a previous no-confidence vote but this time 16 of the 17 senators voted against him, wire services reported.
 The tumult is nothing new in Haiti, a fragile country with a history of political turnover that is being held together largely through the presence of the United Nations peacekeeping mission. The Bush administration considers Mr. Preval's 2006 election and Haiti's relative stability in recent years to be one of its success stories, although State Department officials caution that the country remains volatile. 
 With the recent demonstrations, the Coast Guard has said it is on the lookout for mass emigration.
 It is unclear how the president's move will affect tensions. Even after the United Nations police officer was killed, much of Port-au-Prince seemed largely tranquil. 
 But in the clothing market where the police officer was killed, other peacekeepers took up positions as several stalls on both sides of the street smoldered after being set on fire, The Associated Press reported. The police officer had been driving a marked United Nations vehicle in the crowded market when he was killed.
 Witnesses told The A.P. that other Nigerian police officers later fired tear gas and warning shots to disperse the crowd before recovering the slain man's body. Soon after, the market stalls could be seen burning.
 Rising food prices are a global concern, with some estimates putting the increase as high as 40 percent since mid-2007. 
 In Haiti, though, where the bulk of the population lives on less than $2 a day, the effects have been especially acute. In one slum of Port-au-Prince, a woman sat before a large pot of chicken feet and water recently, selling stew without rice. She said the rice was too costly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brazilians from the United Nations peacekeeping force at Port-au-Prince market where a United Nations policeman was killed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIANA CUBILLOS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); AGRONOMY (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (97%); NIGERIA (92%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



327 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: You Thought You Had an Equity Line

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IT was the nation's lending institutions and mortgage originators that got us into this credit mess, but it is consumers, taxpayers and those companies' shareholders who will end up shouldering most of the costs. 
 The latest example of this is in the mass freezing of home equity lines of credit going on across the country. Reeling from losses on their wretched loan decisions of recent years, lenders are preventing borrowers with pristine credit and significant equity in their homes from tapping into credit lines that they paid dearly to secure. 
 In the last 30 days, lenders have sent several hundred thousand letters advising borrowers that their home equity lines of credit are frozen, estimated Michael A. Kratzer, president of FeeDisclosure.com, a Web site intended to help consumers reduce fees on home loans. 
 Major lenders -- including Washington Mutual, IndyMac Bank and the Greenpoint Mortgage Unit of Capital One -- say that declining property values are prompting the decisions to cut off credit. 
 Banks have the right, of course, to rescind these credit lines at any time under the terms of the contracts they struck with borrowers. And as home prices have tumbled in many parts of the country, banks are undoubtedly trying to protect themselves from exposure to additional losses. 
 But these actions are being taken even in areas where property prices are rising, Mr. Kratzer said. What's worse, the letters provide no explanation for how the lenders determined that the property values underlying the equity lines had fallen. 
 Frozen home equity lines will surely intensify the consumer spending downturn and put added pressure on an already weak economy. Indeed, on Friday, consumer confidence as measured by the University of Michigan plummeted to its lowest level since 1982. The drop was attributed mostly to higher fuel and food costs, but consumers' views on their current and expected personal financial situations dropped to their lowest readings since November 1982 and April 1980, respectively.
 One especially exasperating aspect of now-you-see-them, now-you-don't equity lines is that borrowers are not receiving refunds for fees they paid to secure the credit in the first place. 
 These fees can be significant, Mr. Kratzer said: on a $50,000 line, for example, fees of $1,500 are common. If the line is being frozen at, say, $25,000, why shouldn't the borrower be entitled to receive a refund of $750?
 Borrowers who have an excellent credit score may also find that status hurt when a home equity line is frozen. That is because when a lender suddenly caps a $50,000 line at $25,000, the borrower will appear to have tapped the entire amount of the loan, a factor that can reduce a person's credit score. Never mind that, based on the original amount of the credit line, the borrower is using only half of it. 
 Ronald Martin, 31, a United States naval aviator deployed in Iraq, received one of these letters recently from IndyMac Bank. ''We regret to inform you that your IndyMac Bank Home Equity account has been temporarily frozen,'' the letter began. 
 Mr. Martin's wife, Leigh Anne, a substitute teacher who lives in their Camarillo, Calif., home, said the notice surprised her because she and her husband have excellent credit scores and have not even tapped the IndyMac line. While home values in the Martins' neighborhood have fallen, the couple are not underwater on their mortgage, which was taken out in spring 2005.
 ''YOU paid to use that equity line and now they are saying you can't use it,'' Mrs. Martin said. ''We've never been late on our mortgage. We have a good savings account. We pay every bill we ever had on time -- what did we do wrong?''
 The IndyMac letter said the Martins' credit was being suspended because ''the value of the dwelling has declined significantly below its appraised value used at origination.'' IndyMac said it would re-evaluate the property value each quarter and, if it improved, the freeze would be lifted. 
 Officials representing IndyMac declined to comment. 
 Sara Gaugl, a Washington Mutual spokeswoman, said the bank actively manages the amount of credit it extends to customers. ''We have a process in place for customers who wish to appeal a credit line decrease decision,'' she said. ''We also will continue to assist homeowners who may have unique or special situations.'' 
 Mr. Kratzer, who has recently fielded calls and e-mail messages from more than 500 borrowers in straits similar to the Martins', said lenders who were reining in credit should provide an explanation of how they determined that property values associated with the lines had declined sharply. 
 ''How are lenders arriving at the new loan-to-value ratios?'' Mr. Kratzer asked. ''When you secure a loan or home equity line, a full appraisal is generally required. But these processes aren't being used when the lender calculates a new value to reduce an existing credit line.''
 Mr. Kratzer said he had heard from frozen-out borrowers in 11 metropolitan areas where the median home price actually increased in the last quarter of 2007, the most recent figures available from the National Association of Realtors. They include Yakima, Wash.; Appleton, Wis.; Raleigh-Cary, N.C.; and Champaign-Urbana, Ill. Borrowers in areas where prices remained flat have also contacted him. 
 ''Are they applying blanket values to ZIP codes, neighborhoods or entire regions?'' Mr. Kratzer said. ''We're all left to wonder about the process.''
 Luckily for the Martins, they are not in need of additional credit on their IndyMac line. But other borrowers who have contacted Mr. Kratzer say they are in the middle of home improvement projects that they can no longer finance, or have college tuition bills that they were going to pay using the credit lines. Now they can't. 
 Medical expenses, another reason that borrowers tap their equity lines, are also posing problems for some homeowners. 
 And small-business owners who use home equity lines to bridge cash-flow gaps throughout the year are also being stricken by these curbs, Mr. Kratzer said. He has also heard from people who paid down some of their home equity lines, expecting to be able to draw on them again. Now they are out of luck. 
 ''In a perfect world, lenders would fully disclose the process and criteria used to make these valuations and decisions,'' Mr. Kratzer said. ''These borrowers have a solid payment history, good credit scores and plenty of equity to satisfy most of the lenders' loan-to-value formulas. Instead, the banks are just shutting them off.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (66%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



328 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Letter A Rental Option

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''How to Cast a Mortgage Lifeline?'' (Essay, March 30), Alan S. Blinder asked whether anyone knew of a perfect solution to the housing mess. While perfection is too much to hope for, there may indeed be a better solution than a taxpayer bailout likely to leave homeowners still underwater. 
 (Because housing prices may drop further, homeowners with negative equity who get government assistance to refinance at their home's current value could soon be back in the same situation.)
 The economist Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, where I am a member of the advisory board, has proposed giving low- and middle-income homeowners facing foreclosure the option to remain in their houses as long-term renters, paying fair-market rent. This would transfer ownership of the property back to the lender, but provide an important element of security to homeowners. It would also continue to provide income to the lender, though at a lower level.
 And it won't cost taxpayers a cent. Eileen Appelbaum
 New Brunswick, N.J., March 30
 The writer is a labor economist and professor at Rutgers University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WRITERS (73%); BAILOUTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: BAKER CO INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



329 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Where the Other Half Lives: An Insider Works to Bolster the Projects

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
When Tino Hernandez looks back, he dwells not on the drugs and the crime in his old Lower East Side neighborhood, but on the stability of the Jacob Riis Houses that he knew as a teenager.
 For several years in the 1960s, he lived with his father in a red brick building at 108 Avenue D, part of the sprawling public housing complex named for the photojournalist who wrote ''How the Other Half Lives.''
 These days, Mr. Hernandez, 57, is more than a former tenant of the New York City Housing Authority. He is the chairman. And he remembers one thing most vividly about the Jacob Riis Houses, which were completed in 1949: the friendliness of his 11th floor neighbors. 
 ''You had African-Americans, Puerto Ricans,'' he said. ''You had Italians, you had Jews. We all lived on the same floor, and we kind of had a multiethnic kind of social network.'' 
 But times have changed at the Jacob Riis Houses.
 A curse word is scrawled in pen on the door of Mr. Hernandez's old apartment. A black blotch of graffiti has been burned onto a hallway ceiling with a lighter. A dirty futon cushion was abandoned in an elevator the other day, and the building's front door was jammed and broken.
 On the 13th floor, Deborah Soto, 48, lives in an apartment where the walls have been damaged from water leaks and duct tape holds a window frame together. 
 ''Many years ago, this was the best building out here,'' Ms. Soto said. ''It's frustrating.'' 
 Mr. Hernandez has led the Housing Authority for seven years, and for much of that time he has presided over a financial crisis that residents say has contributed to the deterioration at Jacob Riis and the city's 342 other public housing complexes. 
 With more than half of its budget coming from the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Housing Authority has been hit hard by cuts in its share of federal subsidies in recent years. Its budget deficit this fiscal year is $195 million.
 In response, Mr. Hernandez has helped the agency reduce spending by a total of $527 million over the last five years. He has raised rents for thousands of households and increased the fees tenants pay for some services. Last year, the agency eliminated 73 management jobs. In February, it cut an additional 427 positions, including accountants, construction project managers and secretaries.
 ''We've been able to make tough choices with the guiding principle that we were going to protect core services, that we were going to continue to preserve our housing,'' Mr. Hernandez said.
 Though he is often making unpopular choices and decisions, Mr. Hernandez has been praised by housing advocates and elected officials for stabilizing the agency's financial condition and preserving the city's public housing stock at a time when his counterparts around the country have been demolishing or privatizing their buildings. 
 ''This is less about Tino and more about the growing deficit for public housing and the sources of that deficit,'' said David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society, a nonprofit antipoverty group. ''Tino, to his credit, has finessed this relatively well.''
 Mr. Hernandez's job as public housing's unofficial accountant is an unlikely role for a social worker who served as commissioner of the city's Department of Juvenile Justice under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. He was appointed by Mr. Giuliani to lead the Housing Authority in 2001, and was reappointed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. 
 He describes himself as a late bloomer who lacked direction after high school and worked in the substance abuse treatment field before deciding to seriously pursue a college degree. By the time he obtained his bachelor of science degree from Adelphi University in Garden City, N.Y., in 1986, he was in his mid-30s. ''Never in a million years would I have imagined that my life would come full circle,'' he said.
 As chairman of the largest public housing system in the country -- with 408,000 residents in 2,600 buildings -- he keeps such a low public profile that even some of those residents have never heard of him. He often lets slip that he was sworn in as chairman on April Fool's Day, 2001.
 ''He's not a limelight guy,'' said Jerilyn Perine, executive director of the nonprofit Citizens Housing and Planning Council and a former commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development. ''He's not a big self-promoter. I think he's been more effective as a result.''
 The Housing Authority's national reputation as a successful model of public housing, however, is often at odds with the experiences of its tenants. Many of them complain about conditions and the pervasiveness of crime.
 Residents of the Jacob Riis Houses spoke of drug dealing at Mr. Hernandez's old building. Rick Delgado, 52, used to wear a chain his wife gave him before she died, but no longer. ''I don't want to get into a confrontation,'' he said.
 At Brooklyn public housing complexes, March was a violent month. Two women were raped at the Van Dyke Houses; a 29-year-old man was charged in connection with the attacks. A bullet went through an apartment window, wounding a 9-year-old girl at the Langston Hughes Houses. A 27-year-old mother of three was shot and killed as she chatted with neighbors outside Stuyvesant Gardens. 
 Mr. Hernandez noted that crime has been down in public housing, as in the rest of the city. ''Over all, I would say that public housing is a lot safer than it was maybe 15 years ago, 20 years ago,'' he said, ''but we recognize that we still want to be able to reduce crime as well.'' 
 Crime is only one concern for residents. Keith Massey, 56, a longtime tenant at the Abraham Lincoln Houses in East Harlem, said the condition of the buildings and the grounds has worsened. ''The stairs are not the way they should be,'' said Mr. Massey, a member of the grass-roots group Community Voices Heard. ''The halls are not the way they should be.''
 Mr. Hernandez said the agency had tried to improve conditions and its response time to maintenance complaints; it has added a new 311-style call center for residents to request repairs. And in cutting staff, he said, the agency has tried to protect essential services, like building and elevator maintenance, while keeping the average rent for a one-bedroom apartment at $281 a month. The Housing Authority's operating budget this year is $2.8 billion, a slight increase from last year's $2.7 billion. While the budget has remained roughly the same, federal support has not. 
 From 2001 to 2008, the Housing Authority lost a total of $611 million in federal financing, money it was eligible for under a HUD spending formula but did not receive because of shortfalls in Congressional appropriations. 
 At the same time, the authority's energy, pension and labor expenses continue to rise, even as demand for public housing grows, with more than 125,000 families on the waiting list. Since 2003, the agency has eliminated more than 2,000 positions. In addition, 19 community centers, including 9 in Brooklyn and 5 in the Bronx, are scheduled to close and be consolidated into existing centers; the agency described the centers that are to be closed as ''underutilized.''
 Mr. Hernandez ''has the toughest job next to the mayor,'' said Gregory Floyd, president of Local 237 of the Teamsters union, which represents Housing Authority groundskeepers and other workers. He said he did not blame Mr. Hernandez for the authority's budget woes. ''He's trying to run an operation without any funding,'' he said.
 Mr. Hernandez has been successful in lobbying state leaders to increase their financial aid. Last year, he and public housing advocates persuaded the State Legislature and the governor to raise the so-called shelter allowance for public housing tenants on public assistance. (For years private landlords were paid more for tenants on public assistance than public housing authorities were.) The change will bring the agency an additional $47 million a year by 2010, when it is fully phased in.
 Other political battles have been less successful. While the majority of the city's public housing was built by the federal government, there are also 15 housing developments operated by the Housing Authority that were built by the state; these are, for the most part, no longer subsidized. Last year, the agency asked state officials for $62 million to operate those complexes, and received only $3.4 million. This year, the governor's budget included no money for these complexes.
 ''Let me put it this way,'' Mr. Hernandez recently told a group of managers in a leadership training program at Baruch College's School of Public Affairs. ''I think I'm making it easier for whoever succeeds me. They will blame me for the things that didn't get done and take credit for all the things I got done.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tino Hernandez, chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, remembers the years in the 1960s when he lived in the Jacob Riis Houses on the Lower East Side.
Jahsohn Ponce, 10, in his grandmother's apartment in the Jacob Riis Houses, where walls are cracked and window frames broken.
 The Jacob Riis Houses, completed in 1949, were named for the photojournalist who wrote ''How the Other Half Lives.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BUDGETS (85%); CITY LIFE (78%); GRAFFITI (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); VANDALISM (74%); CITIES (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (63%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (56%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



330 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 6192 words

HEADLINE: Can the Cellphone Help End Global Poverty?

BYLINE: By SARA CORBETT. 
Sara Corbett is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
If you need to reach Jan Chipchase, the best, and sometimes only, way to get him is on his cellphone. The first time I spoke to him last fall, he was at home in his apartment in Tokyo. The next time, he was in Accra, the capital of Ghana, in West Africa. Several weeks after that, he was in Uzbekistan, by way of Tajikistan and China, and in short order he and his phone visited Helsinki, London and Los Angeles. If you decide not to call Jan Chipchase but rather to send e-mail, the odds are fairly good that you'll get an ''out of office'' reply redirecting you back to his cellphone, with a notation about his current time zone -- ''GMT +9'' or ''GMT -8'' -- so that when you do call, you may do so at a courteous hour.
 Keep in mind, though, that Jan Chipchase will probably be too busy with his job to talk much anyway. He could be bowling in Tupelo, Miss., or he could be rummaging through a woman's purse in Shanghai. He might be busy examining the advertisements for prostitutes stuck up in a Sao Paulo phone booth, or maybe getting his ear hairs razored off at a barber shop in Vietnam. It really depends on the moment. 
 Chipchase is 38, a rangy native of Britain whose broad forehead and high-slung brows combine to give him the air of someone who is quick to be amazed, which in his line of work is something of an asset. For the last seven years, he has worked for the Finnish cellphone company Nokia as a ''human-behavior researcher.'' He's also sometimes referred to as a ''user anthropologist.'' To an outsider, the job can seem decidedly oblique. His mission, broadly defined, is to peer into the lives of other people, accumulating as much knowledge as possible about human behavior so that he can feed helpful bits of information back to the company -- to the squads of designers and technologists and marketing people who may never have set foot in a Vietnamese barbershop but who would appreciate it greatly if that barber someday were to buy a Nokia. 
 What amazes Chipchase is not the standard stuff that amazes big multinational corporations looking to turn an ever-bigger profit. Pretty much wherever he goes, he lugs a big-bodied digital Nikon camera with a couple of soup-can-size lenses so that he can take pictures of things that might be even remotely instructive back in Finland or at any of Nokia's nine design studios around the world. Almost always, some explanation is necessary. A Mississippi bowling alley, he will say, is a social hub, a place rife with nuggets of information about how people communicate. A photograph of the contents of a woman's handbag is more than that; it's a window on her identity, what she considers essential, the weight she is willing to bear. The prostitute ads in the Brazilian phone booth? Those are just names, probably fake names, coupled with real cellphone numbers -- lending to Chipchase's theory that in an increasingly transitory world, the cellphone is becoming the one fixed piece of our identity. 
 Last summer, Chipchase sat through a monsoon-season downpour inside the one-room home of a shoe salesman and his family, who live in the sprawling Dharavi slum of Mumbai. Using an interpreter who spoke Tamil, he quizzed them about the food they ate, the money they had, where they got their water and their power and whom they kept in touch with and why. He was particularly interested in the fact that the family owned a cellphone, purchased several months earlier so that the father, who made the equivalent of $88 a month, could run errands more efficiently for his boss at the shoe shop. The father also occasionally called his wife, ringing her at a pay phone that sat 15 yards from their house. Chipchase noted that not only did the father carry his phone inside a plastic bag to keep it safe in the pummeling seasonal rains but that they also had to hang their belongings on the wall in part because of a lack of floor space and to protect them from the monsoon water and raw sewage that sometimes got tracked inside. He took some 800 photographs of the salesman and his family over about eight hours and later, back at his hotel, dumped them all onto a hard drive for use back inside the corporate mother ship. Maybe the family's next cellphone, he mused, should have some sort of hook as an accessory so it, like everything else in the home, could be suspended above the floor.
 This sort of on-the-ground intelligence-gathering is central to what's known as human-centered design, a business-world niche that has become especially important to ultracompetitive high-tech companies trying to figure out how to write software, design laptops or build cellphones that people find useful and unintimidating and will thus spend money on. Several companies, including Intel, Motorola and Microsoft, employ trained anthropologists to study potential customers, while Nokia's researchers, including Chipchase, more often have degrees in design. Rather than sending someone like Chipchase to Vietnam or India as an emissary for the company -- loaded with products and pitch lines, as a marketer might be -- the idea is to reverse it, to have Chipchase, a patently good listener, act as an emissary for people like the barber or the shoe-shop owner's wife, enlightening the company through written reports and PowerPoint presentations on how they live and what they're likely to need from a cellphone, allowing that to inform its design. 
 The premise of the work is simple -- get to know your potential customers as well as possible before you make a product for them. But when those customers live, say, in a mud hut in Zambia or in a tin-roofed hutong dwelling in China, when you are trying -- as Nokia and just about every one of its competitors is -- to design a cellphone that will sell to essentially the only people left on earth who don't yet have one, which is to say people who are illiterate, making $4 per day or less and have no easy access to electricity, the challenges are considerable.
 One morning last fall, I arranged to meet Chipchase in a neighborhood in Accra where he and a few other Nokia people were doing research. At his suggestion, I took a taxi to the general area and then called him on his cellphone. This part of the city, called Nima, was a jumble of narrow alleyways hemmed in by a few major thoroughfares and anchored by a teeming marketplace. The homes in Nima were small, low-roofed and usually one or two rooms made from concrete or crumbling mud bricks, often set back behind a homegrown business -- someone's peanut stand or a shack selling dust-coated secondhand stereos and television sets. The streets around the market were swollen with a slow-moving river of people. On their heads, Ghanaian women toted pyramids of pomegranates, bagged loaves of fresh bread, baskets of live chickens. Trucks belched diesel exhaust; men pushed carts full of sugar cane and fat, purplish bulbs of garlic. 
 From an unseen distance, Chipchase used his phone to pilot me through the unfamiliar chaos, allowing us to have what he calls a ''just in time'' moment. ''Just in time'' is a manufacturing concept that was popularized by the Japanese carmaker Toyota when, beginning in the late 1930s, it radically revamped its production system, virtually eliminating warehouses stocked with big loads of car parts and instead encouraging its assembly plants to order parts directly from the factory only as they were needed. The process became less centralized, more incremental. Car parts were manufactured swiftly and in small batches, which helped to cut waste, improve efficiency and more easily correct manufacturing defects. As Toyota became, in essence, lighter on its feet, the company's productivity rose, and so did its profits. 
 There are a growing number of economists who maintain that cellphones can restructure developing countries in a similar way. Cellphones, after all, have an economizing effect. My ''just in time'' meeting with Chipchase required little in the way of advance planning and was more efficient than the oft-imperfect practice of designating a specific time and a place to rendezvous. He didn't have to leave his work until he knew I was in the vicinity. Knowing that he wasn't waiting for me, I didn't fret about the extra 15 minutes my taxi driver sat blaring his horn in Accra's unpredictable traffic. And now, on foot, if I moved in the wrong direction, it could be quickly corrected. Using mobile phones, we were able to coordinate incrementally. ''Do you see the footbridge?'' Chipchase was saying over the phone. ''No? O.K., do you see the giant green sign that says 'Believe in God'? Yes? I'm down to the left of that.'' 
 To someone who has spent years using a mobile phone, these moments are common enough to feel banal, but for people living in a shantytown like Nima -- and by extension in similar places across Africa and beyond -- the possibilities afforded by a proliferation of cellphones are potentially revolutionary. Today, there are more than 3.3 billion mobile-phone subscriptions worldwide, which means that there are at least three billion people who don't own cellphones, the bulk of them to be found in Africa and Asia. Even the smallest improvements in efficiency, amplified across those additional three billion people, could reshape the global economy in ways that we are just beginning to understand. This is part of what Chipchase was eager to show me, if only I could spot him. ''I'm by the hair-salon stall,'' he was saying into his phone. ''Next to that goat. Do you see it? See me? Ah, yes,'' he said brightly, ''there you are.'' And then, face to face and sweating in the climbing equatorial sun, we hung up.
 To get a sense of how rapidly cellphones are penetrating the global marketplace, you need only to look at the sales figures. According to statistics from the market database Wireless Intelligence, it took about 20 years for the first billion mobile phones to sell worldwide. The second billion sold in four years, and the third billion sold in two. Eighty percent of the world's population now lives within range of a cellular network, which is double the level in 2000. And figures from the International Telecommunications Union show that by the end of 2006, 68 percent of the world's mobile subscriptions were in developing countries. As more and more countries abandon government-run telecom systems, offering cellular network licenses to the highest-bidding private investors and without the burden of navigating pre-established bureaucratic chains, new towers are going up at a furious pace. Unlike fixed-line phone networks, which are expensive to build and maintain and require customers to have both a permanent address and the ability to pay a monthly bill, or personal computers, which are not just costly but demand literacy as well, the cellphone is more egalitarian, at least to a point. 
 ''You don't even need to own a cellphone to benefit from one,'' says Paul Polak, author of ''Out of Poverty: What Works When Traditional Approaches Fail'' and former president of International Development Enterprises, a nonprofit company specializing in training and technology for small-plot farmers in developing countries. Part of I.D.E.'s work included setting up farm cooperatives in Nepal, where farmers would bring their vegetables to a local person with a mobile phone, who then acted as a commissioned sales agent, using the phone to check market prices and arranging for the most profitable sale. ''People making a dollar a day can't afford a cellphone, but if they start making more profit in their farming, you can bet they'll buy a phone as a next step,'' Polak says.
 Last year, the World Resources Institute, a Washington-based environmental research group, published a report with the International Finance Corporation entitled ''The Next Four Billion,'' an economic study that looked at, among other things, how poor people living in developing countries spent their money. One of the most remarkable findings was that even very poor families invested a significant amount of money in the I.C.T. category -- information-communication technology, which, according to Al Hammond, the study's principal author, can include money spent on computers or land-line phones, but in this segment of the population that's almost never the case. What they're buying, he says, are cellphones and airtime, usually in the form of prepaid cards. Even more telling is the finding that as a family's income grows -- from $1 per day to $4, for example -- their spending on I.C.T. increases faster than spending in any other category, including health, education and housing. ''It's really quite striking,'' Hammond says. ''What people are voting for with their pocketbooks, as soon as they have more money and even before their basic needs are met, is telecommunications.''
 There are clear reasons for this, but understanding them requires forgetting for a moment about your own love-hate relationship with your cellphone, or iPhone, or BlackBerry. Something that's mostly a convenience booster for those of us with a full complement of technology at our disposal -- land-lines, Internet connections, TVs, cars -- can be a life-saver to someone with fewer ways to access information. A ''just in time'' moment afforded by a cellphone looks a lot different to a mother in Uganda who needs to carry a child with malaria three hours to visit the nearest doctor but who would like to know first whether that doctor is even in town. It looks different, too, to the rural Ugandan doctor who, faced with an emergency, is able to request information via text message from a hospital in Kampala. 
 Jan Chipchase and his user-research colleagues at Nokia can rattle off example upon example of the cellphone's ability to increase people's productivity and well-being, mostly because of the simple fact that they can be reached. There's the live-in housekeeper in China who was more or less an indentured servant until she got a cellphone so that new customers could call and book her services. Or the porter who spent his days hanging around outside of department stores and construction sites hoping to be hired to carry other people's loads but now, with a cellphone, can go only where the jobs are. Having a call-back number, Chipchase likes to say, is having a fixed identity point, which, inside of populations that are constantly on the move -- displaced by war, floods, drought or faltering economies -- can be immensely valuable both as a means of keeping in touch with home communities and as a business tool. Over several years, his research team has spoken to rickshaw drivers, prostitutes, shopkeepers, day laborers and farmers, and all of them say more or less the same thing: their income gets a big boost when they have access to a cellphone. 
 It may sound like corporate jingoism, but this sort of economic promise has also caught the eye of development specialists and business scholars around the world. Robert Jensen, an economics professor at Harvard University, tracked fishermen off the coast of Kerala in southern India, finding that when they invested in cellphones and started using them to call around to prospective buyers before they'd even got their catch to shore, their profits went up by an average of 8 percent while consumer prices in the local marketplace went down by 4 percent. A 2005 London Business School study extrapolated the effect even further, concluding that for every additional 10 mobile phones per 100 people, a country's G.D.P. rises 0.5 percent. 
 Text messaging, or S.M.S. (short message service), turns out to be a particularly cost-effective way to connect with otherwise unreachable people privately and across great distances. Public health workers in South Africa now send text messages to tuberculosis patients with reminders to take their medication. In Kenya, people can use S.M.S. to ask anonymous questions about culturally taboo subjects like AIDS, breast cancer and sexually transmitted diseases, receiving prompt answers from health experts for no charge. 
 Some of the mobile phone's biggest boosters are those who believe that pumping international aid money into poor countries is less effective than encouraging economic growth through commerce, also called ''inclusive capitalism.'' A cellphone in the hands of an Indian fisherman who uses it to grow his business -- which presumably gives him more resources to feed, clothe, educate and safeguard his family -- represents a textbook case of bottom-up economic development, a way of empowering individuals by encouraging entrepreneurship as opposed to more traditional top-down approaches in which aid money must filter through a bureaucratic chain before reaching its beneficiaries, who by virtue of the process are rendered passive recipients. 
 For this reason, the cellphone has become a darling of the microfinance movement. After Muhammad Yunus, the Nobel-winning founder of Grameen Bank, began making microloans to women in poor countries so that they could buy revenue-producing assets like cows and goats, he was approached by a Bangladeshi expat living in the U.S. named Iqbal Quadir. Quadir posed a simple question to Yunus -- If a woman can invest in a cow, why can't she invest in a phone? -- that led to the 1996 creation of Grameen Phone Ltd. and has since started the careers of more than 250,000 ''phone ladies'' in Bangladesh, which is considered one of the world's poorest countries. Women use microcredit to buy specially designed cellphone kits costing about $150, each equipped with a long-lasting battery. They then set up shop as their village phone operator, charging a small commission for people to make and receive calls. 
 The endeavor has not only revolutionized communications in Bangladesh but also has proved to be wildly profitable: Grameen Phone is now Bangladesh's largest telecom provider, with annual revenues of about $1 billion. Similar village-phone programs have sprung up in Rwanda, Uganda, Cameroon and Indonesia, among other places. ''Poor countries are poor because they are wasting their resources,'' says Quadir, who is now the director of the Legatum Center for Development and Entrepreneurship at M.I.T. ''One resource is time, another is opportunity. Let's say you can walk over to five people who live in your immediate vicinity, that's one thing. But if you're connected to one million people, your possibilities are endless.''
 During a 2006 field study in Uganda, Chipchase and his colleagues stumbled upon an innovative use of the shared village phone, a practice called sente. Ugandans are using prepaid airtime as a way of transferring money from place to place, something that's especially important to those who do not use banks. Someone working in Kampala, for instance, who wishes to send the equivalent of $5 back to his mother in a village will buy a $5 prepaid airtime card, but rather than entering the code into his own phone, he will call the village phone operator (''phone ladies'' often run their businesses from small kiosks) and read the code to her. She then uses the airtime for her phone and completes the transaction by giving the man's mother the money, minus a small commission. ''It's a rather ingenious practice,'' Chipchase says, ''an example of grass-roots innovation, in which people create new uses for technology based on need.'' 
 It's also the precursor to a potentially widespread formalized system of mobile banking. Already companies like Wizzit, in South Africa, and GCash, in the Philippines, have started programs that allow customers to use their phones to store cash credits transferred from another phone or purchased through a post office, phone-kiosk operator or other licensed operator. With their phones, they can then make purchases and payments or withdraw cash as needed. Hammond of the World Resources Institute predicts that mobile banking will bring huge numbers of previously excluded people into the formal economy quickly, simply because the latent demand for such services is so great, especially among the rural poor. This bodes well for cellphone companies, he says, since owning a phone will suddenly have more value than sharing a village phone. ''If you're in Hanoi after midnight,'' Hammond says, ''the streets are absolutely clogged with motorbikes piled with produce. They give their produce to the guy who runs a vegetable stall, and they go home. How do they get paid? They get paid the next time they come to town, which could be a month or two later. You have to hope you can find the stall guy again and that he remembers what he sold. But what if you could get paid the next day on your mobile phone? Would you care what that mobile costs? I don't think so.''
 In February of last year, when Vodafone rolled out its M-Pesa mobile-banking program in Kenya, it aimed to add 200,000 new customers in the first year but got them within a month. One year later, M-Pesa has 1.6 million subscribers, and Vodafone is now set to open mobile-banking enterprises in a number of other countries, including Tanzania and India. ''Look, microfinance is great; Yunus deserves his sainthood,'' Hammond says. ''But after 30 years, there are only 90 million microfinance customers. I'm predicting that mobile-phone banking will add a billion banking customers to the system in five years. That's how big it is.''
 When he is not doing his field work, Jan Chipchase goes to a lot of design conferences, where he gives talks with titles like ''Connecting the Unconnected.'' He also writes a popular blog called Future Perfect, on which he posts photographs of some of the things that amaze him along with a little bit of explanatory text. ''Pushing technologies on society without thinking through their consequences is at least naive, at worst dangerous . . . and IMHO the people that do it are just boring,'' he writes on his blog's description page. ''Future Perfect is a pause for reflection in our planet's seemingly headlong rush to churn out more, faster, smaller and cheaper.'' 
 Clearly, though, Chipchase's work puts him smack in the middle of this rush, and no company churns out phones like Nokia, which manufactures 1.3 million products daily. Forty percent of the mobile phones sold last year were made by Nokia, and the company's $8.4 billion profit in 2007 reflects as much. Chipchase seems distinctly uncomfortable talking about his part as a corporate rainmaker, preferring to see himself as a mostly dispassionate ethnographer, albeit one with Nokia stock options. The only time I saw him get even slightly prickly -- or indeed behave like anything but a mild-mannered guy who is wholly absorbed by the small, arcane things that serve as clues to bigger patterns of communication -- was when I happened to muse that maybe there were still places in the world where technology might not be so vital. 
 We were sitting under a slow-revolving ceiling fan in a small restaurant in Accra, eating bowls of piquant Ghanaian peanut-and-chicken stew. Chipchase told a story about meeting some monk disciples at a temple in Ulan Bator, when he vacationed in Mongolia a few Decembers ago. (Most of Chipchase's vacation stories, it turns out, take place in less-developed countries, often in forbidding weather and frequently relating back to cellphone use.) Despite their red robes and shaved heads and the fact they were spending their days in a giant monastery at the top of a windy hill where they were meant to be in dialogue with God, some of the 15 monk disciples had cellphones -- Nokia cellphones -- and most were fancier models than the one Chipchase was carrying. One of the disciples asked to look at Chipchase's phone. ''So he's got my phone and his phone,'' Chipchase told me. ''And as we're talking, he's switching on the Bluetooth. And he then data-mines my phone for all its content, all my photographs and so on, which is absolutely fine, but it's kind of a scene where you think, I'm here, I'm so away from everything and yet they're so technically literate. . . . ''
 This is when I voiced a careless thought about whether there might be something negative about the lightning spread of technology, whether its convenience was somehow supplanting traditional values or practices. Chipchase raised his eyebrows and laid down his spoon. He sighed, making it clear that responding to me was going to require patience. ''People can think, yeah, monks with cellphones, and tsk, tsk, and what is the world coming to?'' he said. ''But if you wanted to take phones away from anybody in this world who has them, they'd probably say: 'You're going to have to fight me for it. Are you going to take my sewer and water away too?' And maybe you can't put communication on the same level as running water, but some people would. And I think in some contexts, it's quite viable as a fundamental right.'' He paused a beat to let this sink in, then added, with just a touch of edge, ''People once believed that people in other cultures might not benefit from having books either.''
 For the last year, Chipchase has been working on a project he calls Future Urban, the goal of which is to explore what the cities of tomorrow will be like. Which is why one afternoon in Ghana he provided me with minute-to-minute cellphone instructions (''Do you see the sewing stall? O.K., now look to the right'') for finding him at the outskirts of Buduburam, a densely populated refugee settlement about an hour's drive west of Accra. For the previous 11 days, Chipchase, two of his female colleagues from Tokyo -- Indri Tulusan and Younghee Jung -- and a small group of hired Ghanaians had been running what they called an ''open design studio'' in the heart of Buduburam, which is home to approximately 40,000 people, most of whom had fled from the civil wars in neighboring Liberia, Sierra Leone and Ivory Coast. 
 Nokia's temporary design studio sat in a rented two-room concrete hut at the intersection of two busy dirt lanes, across from a woman selling chunks of watermelon and peeled lemons and next to a large water tank labeled ''Church of God.'' There was a sheet of fabric strung up in front, with neat painted lettering that read: ''Your Dream Phone. Share it with the world.'' It went on to describe how the community was invited to come share ideas and drawings for the ideal mobile phone. Prizes were offered. So far, 140 people had shown up to sketch their dream phone.
 ''For the first time, there are more people living in urban centers than in rural settings,'' Chipchase explained as we sat in the shade outside the studio. ''And in the next years, millions more will move to these places.'' At current rates of migration, the United Nations Human Settlements Program has projected that one-quarter of the earth's population will live in so-called slums by the year 2020. Slums, by sheer virtue of the numbers, are going to start mattering more and more, Chipchase postulated. In the name of preparing Nokia for this shift, he, Jung and Tulusan, along with a small group of others, spent several weeks in various shantytowns -- in Mumbai, in Rio, in western China and now here in Ghana. 
 People in the mobile-handset business talk about adding customers not by the millions but by the billions, if only they could get the details right. How do you make a phone that can be repaired by a streetside repairman who may not have access to new parts? How do you build a phone that won't die a quick death in a monsoon or by falling off the back of a motorbike on a dusty road? Or a phone that picks up distant signals in a rural place, holds a charge off a car battery longer or that can double as a flashlight during power cuts? Influenced by Chipchase's study on the practice of sharing cellphones inside of families or neighborhoods, Nokia has started producing phones with multiple address books for as many as seven users per phone. To enhance the phone's usefulness to illiterate customers, the company has designed software that cues users with icons in addition to words. The biggest question remains one of price: Nokia's entry-level phones run about $45; Vodafone offers models that are closer to $25; and in a move that generated headlines around the world, the Indian manufacturer Spice Limited recently announced plans to sell a $20 ''people's phone.''
 Even as sales continue to grow, it is yet to be seen whether the mobile phone will play a significant, sustained role in alleviating poverty in the developing world. In Africa, it's still only a relatively small percentage of the population that owns cellphones. Network towers are not particularly cost-effective in remote areas, where power is supplied by diesel fuel. ''I don't see cellphones as a magic bullet per se, though they're obviously very helpful,'' says Ken Banks, founder of kiwanja.net, a nonprofit entity that provides free text-messaging software and information-technology support to grass-roots enterprises, mostly in Africa. ''Many people in the developing world don't yet have a phone -- not because they don't want one but because there are barriers. And the only way companies are going to sell phones is to understand what those barriers are.'' He cites access to reliable electricity as a major barrier, noting that Motorola now provides free solar-powered charging kiosks to female entrepreneurs in Uganda, who use them to sell airtime. The company is also testing wind- and solar-powered base stations in Namibia, which could bring down the cost of connecting remote areas to cellular networks. ''Originally mobile-phone companies weren't interested in power because it's not their business,'' Banks says. ''But if a few hundred million people could buy their phones once they had it, they're suddenly interested in power.''
 Many of the people in Buduburam who came to sketch their ideas for a perfect phone at the Nokia studio did not actually own one. The community's power grid had been down for the last month, so those who did have one had been paying to have their phones charged at a local shop with a diesel-run generator. But when I paged through the fat three-ring binders where the Nokia team was storing those sketches, it was evident that the future, or at least some vision of it, had already arrived. Some of the drawings were basic pencil sketches; others were strikingly elaborate, with arrows pointing to different dream features, which were really just a way of pointing -- I realized then -- to the dreams themselves. 
 Jung and Tulusan said they'd found this everywhere, the phone representing what people are aspiring to. ''It's an easy way to see what's important to them, what their challenges are,'' Jung said. One Liberian refugee wanted to outfit a phone with a land-mine detector so that he could more safely return to his home village. In the Dharavi slum of Mumbai, people sketched phones that could forecast the weather since they had no access to TV or radio. Muslims wanted G.P.S. devices to orient their prayers toward Mecca. Someone else drew a phone shaped like a water bottle, explaining that it could store precious drinking water and also float on the monsoon waters. In Jacarezinho, a bustling favela in Rio, one designer drew a phone with an air-quality monitor. Several women sketched phones that would monitor cheating boyfriends and husbands. Another designed a ''peace button'' that would halt gunfire in the neighborhood with a single touch. 
 Interestingly, the recent post-election violence in Kenya provided a remarkable case study for the cellphone as an instrument of both war and peace. After the government imposed a media blackout in late December last year, Kenyans sought news and information via S.M.S. messages on their phones and used them to track down friends and family who'd fled their homes. Many also reported receiving unsolicited text messages to take up arms. The government responded with an admonition, sent, of course, via S.M.S.: ''The Ministry of Internal Security urges you to please desist from sending or forwarding any S.M.S. that may cause public unrest. This may lead to your prosecution.''
 As a joke, Chipchase sometimes pulls out his cellphone and pretends to shave his face with it, using a buzzing ring tone for comic effect. But there's a deeper truth embedded here, not just for people in places like Kenya or Buduburam but for all of us. As cellphone technology grows increasingly sophisticated, it has cannibalized -- for better or worse -- the technologies that have come before it. Carrying a full-featured cellphone lessens your needs for other things, including a watch, an alarm clock, a camera, video camera, home stereo, television, computer or, for that matter, a newspaper. With the advent of mobile banking, cellphones have begun to replace wallets as well. That a phone might someday offer a nice close shave suddenly seems not so ridiculous after all.
 One morning I followed Chipchase as he waded deep into the Nima market, a hodgepodge of vegetable stalls and phone-booth-size stores selling sundries like candles and palm oil. He was accompanied by a Ghanaian interpreter and two Nokia designers who had flown in from California to test the cultural waters for a phone that -- if everything played out perfectly -- could cost as little as $5. The $5 phone was still a pie-in-the-sky concept, explained Duncan Burns, one of the designers, something they were fiddling with to see if it might be possible someday probably years from now. Each time the group stopped to chat with someone, Burns pulled out several prototypes -- or ''physical sketches,'' as he called them -- for potential phones, handing them over one by one for examination. 
 These were elegant, futuristic-looking things, just odd enough to seem as if they'd arrived not from California but from outer space. One was long and wandlike, looking something like an aluminum version of a thick vanilla bean. Another was a slimmer rendering of an everyday phone but with no keypad and no screen, just a single unmarked button. A third did not look at all like a phone but rather like a credit card. There were a couple of small digital photos of people's faces stuck to the front of the card, and it came with a small stylus that could be used, Burns said, to touch a face on the card, which would then dial that person's number -- a pictorial address book for someone who was illiterate. A fourth had a camera that took pictures and deposited them right into the phone's address book.
 A young man selling beans stared at each of the pretend phones uncomfortably, as if he mistrusted the devices or perhaps the small crowd of sweat-soaked foreigners suddenly leaning in close to see how he handled them. 
 ''How would you use that?'' Chipchase asked through the interpreter, using a dialect called Twi and pointing to the wand phone. The bean seller tentatively lifted it to his ear. ''Where would you keep it?'' The young man gestured to his neck. ''On a rope?'' Chipchase said. The man, still looking bewildered, nodded yes. 
 Moments later, we came upon an ample-bodied woman dressed in a bright gold wrapper and matching head scarf, sifting rocks and twigs out of scoopfuls of corn beneath an umbrella in a quiet corner of the market. 
 ''Hellllloooooo,'' Chipchase said, smiling broadly. 
 ''Helllllooooo, Brudda,'' she said back in English. 
 ''We work for Nokia. You know Nokia?'' 
 The woman said nothing, but reached down and from the folds of her wrapper produced a Nokia phone. ''Not good,'' she said, shaking her head disparagingly. ''You call. It switches off.''
 Chipchase enlisted the interpreter to explain that her problem sounded like a network problem and not a Nokia problem. Shrugging, the woman went on to inspect the prototype phones, testing their weight in her palm, pressing them against her cheek, punching buttons. She pooh-poohed the stylus phone but said she liked the one-button model if it meant she didn't need to use a lot of numbers. ''Brudda, how do you charge it?'' she asked. From his bag, Burns pulled another still-conceptual design, this one a thin metal cylinder with a whirlybird antenna on top. He showed the corn seller how to rotate the cylinder in small circles, causing the antenna to swing, which, he explained, in 15 minutes or so would generate enough power to charge her phone battery. 
 The woman picked up the futuristic gizmo and began to swing it; the antenna whipped around and around. She let out an enthusiastic whoop. Then a friend of hers who'd been sitting in the shadow of her umbrella started to laugh. Another woman, a spice seller perched on a stool next to small mountains of turmeric and cumin heaped on canvas cloths, began to laugh also. ''Very nice,'' the corn seller said to Burns and Chipchase, swinging the antenna like a toy. ''It's good!'' Then, after a moment, she gathered her composure and handed the charger off to her son, a heavy-lidded teenager who was lounging on a sack of corn nearby. ''Doing that,'' she said blithely as she returned to picking through her kernels of corn, ''can be his job.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''HUMAN-CENTERED DESIGN:'' Chipchase talks to Accra street vendors about what an ideal phone (ideally made by Nokia) might do
IDENTITY FOR SALE: A cellphone in the developing world gives a person a fixed location, particularly important for those displaced by war or drought
 SELLING TO THE OTHER THREE BILLION: A cellphone shop in Accra, Ghana, which carries and repairs a variety of handsets. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHAUL SCHWARZ/REPORTAGE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (68%); BOWLING CENTERS (67%); BOWLING (67%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (64%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (63%); PROSTITUTION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (57%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (57%) GHANA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (90%); TAJIKISTAN (90%); UZBEKISTAN (90%); WESTERN AFRICA (88%); BRAZIL (79%); VIET NAM (77%); JAPAN (73%); AFRICA (73%); FINLAND (72%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



331 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
A Case of the Blues
 Benjamin Wallace-Wells's erudite analysis of ''the end of Republican America'' did not get to the core of its ascendancy in the first place (March 30). Discounting the gains from persuading lunch-bucket types to vote red, using social-issue wedges, elephant nation took to its heart the maxim of the joke: What's the difference between Democrats and Republicans? Democrats are tax and spend; Republicans are borrow and spend. And borrow and spend is much more politically correct.
 The reason for the demise of Republicans in the last Congressional election, and most likely this one, is because borrow and spend doesn't work as well on lunch-bucket types scared about their economic futures. 
 Democratic gains may be enhanced exponentially this time because Democrats appear to have taken borrow and spend to heart. Their entire mantra is free stuff for everyone paid for by that $200 billion we are wasting in Iraq that is already being borrowed entirely from Pacific Rim loan sharks.
 Red- and blue-state distinctions are devolving into pointless arguments over who gets the free money from the printing press of a bankrupt country. The muck and mire of red versus blue mixes into a wonderful dark violet, a color similar to that blood we seek from a turnip.
 DALE FRIEDLEY
 St. Petersburg, Fla.
 Students of Virginity
 Randall Patterson's thought-provoking article took me back to my own days as a college student (Yale, '80) wrestling with sexuality on campus (March 30). I was so inexperienced that even my parents suggested I ''loosen up'' when I got to college, which would have been easy, what with co-ed dorms, freshman pamphlets on birth control and sex practices and well-established codes to announce activities requiring privacy. (In our dorm, it was a sock on the door handle.) I put off sex, not because of morality but because it just never felt right. So it was a relief to read about college students making similar secular-based choices.
 LAUREN MAYER
 San Mateo, Calif.
 I was impressed by Janie Fredell's unique reasons for remaining abstinent, which, to me, gave new meaning to the term ''feminist.'' Maintaining control over one's body by abstaining from sex seems to be equally as empowering as having sex freely does. Her rationale, though, made it all the more clear that the choice to be abstinent is, above all, personal. Presenting information and testimonials from both sides of this spectrum is quite possibly the only effective way of educating teenagers in sexual health and well-being.
 CARA LANE
 Suffern, N.Y.
 Since there is (and always has been) a ''cultural double standard that devalues women for their sexual pasts and glorifies men for theirs,'' as Janie Fredell states, it would have been enlightened, to say the least, if these superbright and educated women and men at Harvard would spend their considerable energy in trying to eliminate that double standard. But instead of working to eliminate the unfairness, they are making sure that it gets entrenched further. This is our future? A bleak picture indeed.
 ANGELA M. MINOGGIO
 Port Washington, N.Y.
 Doctor, Bully
 In responding to a query, the Ethicist (March 30) holds that if one doctor in a locale requires an arbitration agreement, that's fine, but if most or all do, it's not.
 Yet the very fact that so many obstetricians in the Palm Harbor, Fla., area require binding-arbitration agreements may reflect that the doctors themselves have similarly little choice: their malpractice carriers, or the simple realities of fiscal survival, may dictate that such agreements are the only way to keep their practices open. The doctors may be making the difficult and ethically laudable choice to remain serving that region -- with needed arbitration protection -- rather than move away to a less legally aggressive locale.
 The Ethicist maintains that ''the right to our day in court'' is ''inviolable.'' But that right also vanishes when the last doctor leaves.
 IPPOLIT MATJUCHA, M.D.
 Peabody, Mass.
 Where has the Ethicist been? We are all of us constantly being required to sign away our rights to a day in court in favor of binding arbitration.
 In this country, arbitration is running rampant in every industry because business likes it. 
 JODINE MAYBERRY
 Rutledge, Pa.
 Supreme Court Inc.
 In Jeffrey Rosen's article (March 16) about the role of the Roberts court in business cases, Ralph Nader claimed that lawyers have left Public Citizen because they were demoralized and tired of losing, and the article left the impression that an exodus continues. Nothing could be further from the truth. Ralph Nader left Public Citizen in 1980 and has had no formal role with the organization since. He cannot, and does not, speak for us.
 The Public Citizen Litigation Group, our legal arm, has had no turnover for four years -- that is, no turnover since before Chief Justice Roberts went on the court. Our small legal staff has lawyers with 30, 18 and 14 years of tenure at the organization and almost 150 years of overall experience. If a public-interest law firm of comparable size has anywhere near our level of experience, tenure and low turnover, we haven't seen it. We know of no lawyer who has left because he or she was demoralized or tired of losing.
 Yes, courts are less hospitable to our claims now, but we still win most of our cases, whether in the Supreme Court or elsewhere. We are in the consumer-protection business for the very long haul. We have never quit and won't start quitting now. 
 JOAN CLAYBROOK
 President, Public Citizen
 Washington
 Changing the Rules of the Games
 Ilan Greenberg's article (March 30) aptly focuses on how Dream for Darfur and other groups plan to leverage the Beijing Olympics to challenge the Chinese government on its arms sales to Sudan, repression of ethnic minorities and other violations of human rights. Whether such protests have any long-term influence on the Chinese government remains to be seen. Many groups protested against Hitler's discrimination against Jews prior to the Berlin Games of 1936, but the aftermath of those games remind us that the greatest repressions often occur when the limelight moves elsewhere. 
 WILLIAM E. COOPER
 Richmond, Va.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEFT: ANDREW BETTLES. RIGHT: AMY ARBUS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); STUDENT HOUSING (69%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (64%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



332 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE ISLAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Longing for the State Of Long Island

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN. 
E-mail: theisland@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Hauppauge 

 BODY:
 IF Joseph Sawicki Jr., Suffolk County's rambunctious comptroller and outside-the-box numbers-cruncher, can sell you on his rebooted secession plan for Long Island, the isle he envisions as the 51st state, be aware that he's also looking to unload the stray cat named Tabby camped out in his Southold basement. Tabby goes gratis to the first buyer.
 ''I've tried everything, ads in the local paper, at the vet's, and not one single call,'' Mr. Sawicki groused the other day in his spotless, sky-high office in the F. Lee Dennison Building here. He was wearing a tie dotted with sailboats; sure, he's big-time into boats and fishing, he's a native East Ender, married to a nurse and father to two strapping sons. Life is good except that, because of the rapacious taxation inflicted by New York State, life on Long Island costs too darn much. Call him a think locally/act locally xenophobe; secession is his $3 billion remedy. 
 ''A little radical, indeed it is, but nothing else has worked,'' said Mr. Sawicki, 53. ''Albany thinks of Long Island as their personal A.T.M. I believe the economics of the situation justifies a secession movement.''
 The two-term comptroller was unworried that the Suffolk seat of power here, not to mention his job, might be rendered defunct if Nassau and Suffolk Counties embrace the cause, dismantle themselves and reincarnate as a brand-new state with no Albany to answer to and no county divisions. Just think, a state ready-made with its own natural moats; great for privacy, boaters and keeping unsympathetic neighbors like New York City and Albany at bay.
 ''Politically and socially, being our own state would put us in control of our destiny rather than being the stepchild of the rest of the state,'' Mr. Sawicki said. ''Let's face it, Long Island has very little in common with New York City and nothing in common with upstate.''
 Speaking of divisiveness, or lack thereof, Mr. Sawicki, a Republican, was thrilled to recount the topic that was chewed over, in happy unison, at a long lunch he had recently with Jon Cooper, a (very) Democratic legislator from Lloyd Harbor. Not only did they agree that the 51st state, if it comes to pass, should retain the name Long Island, but both also liked the retro sound of the Commonwealth of Long Island. The wealth part of the equation is apropos: Long Island would boast the nation's highest median household income, not bad for the third-smallest state. 
 But back, briefly, to his lack of prowess as a pet salesman. ''I even offered a promotion to anybody on my staff who took Tabby,'' he said, joking. ''No responders.''
 Mr. Sawicki, who said his six terms in the State Assembly convinced him that Albany is a relentless leech on Long Island's fiscal resources, seems to be having an easier time finding takers for his secession proposal. Everyone from the woman who cuts his hair ($15 a trim) to his parents (Florida snowbirds, they raised him in Southold and sent him to Siena College for an accounting degree) to the folks who heard his pitch on March 28 at a breakfast meeting sponsored by the Long Island Economic and Social Policy Institute at Dowling College has been captivated by the same statistic.
 ''When I tell people we send the state $8.1 billion in taxes and get back only $5.2 billion, they're amazed,'' he said. ''And they all say the same thing: $3 billion is a lot of money. I don't know if we're really going to push this through, but it's an idea whose time has come: $3 billion is an amount worth fighting for.''
 The first move in the fight was Mr. Sawicki's. Rather than have his proposal labeled a political ploy, he enlisted Martin R. Cantor, an economist, accountant and director of the Economic and Social Policy Institute at Dowling, to conduct an independent feasibility study. The result is due by September.
 ''Who knows, they may find statehood could end up costing us more, not less,'' Mr. Sawicki said. ''But I wouldn't be spinning everyone's wheels, including my own, if I didn't believe it makes a certain kind of sense.''
 Enough sense for the Nassau and Suffolk County Legislatures to authorize an advisory referendum by voters, enough sense for all nine Long Island state senators and 21 Assembly members to get on the same page, enough sense for the State Legislature and Congress to sign off on it? Hasn't worked for secessionists in California or Maryland. And it didn't work in 1991, when, inspired by a report by Lee E. Koppelman, Mr. Sawicki pitched the idea to the State Legislature.
 ''I realize it's an uphill battle, but if the people and our elected officials get behind it, it's a way to take our message to Albany loud and clear and maybe change the way Long Island gets treated,'' he said. ''If it does get on a ballot, I predict all hell will break loose.'' 
 And if Long Island becomes the 51st state? Look for the current county executives, Steve Levy and Thomas R. Suozzi, to turn up as senators; look for the osprey (Mr. Sawicki's favorite) to be named state bird; look for Mr. Sawicki to become state comptroller or, if the fates are generous, governor. Hey, you never know. 
 ''Well, you do know one thing,'' he said. ''After this proposition, I'll never be invited to run for governor of the State of New York.'' 
 Or comptroller. Or dogcatcher. Catcatcher, maybe; he'd hate that.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph Sawicki Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL MARINO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); CATS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



333 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; EXPLORER THE MARQUESAS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 2083 words

HEADLINE: Where Many Ended Their Search for Paradise

BYLINE: By JON BOWERMASTER

 BODY:
FROM the lofty deck of the Hiva Oa Hanakee Pearl Lodge, the only hotel on the remote South Pacific island of Hiva Oa, the view is of lush forest, crashing cobalt sea and, if it is morning, a very misty Mount Temetiu. Below and for miles beyond, nature runs wild: steep cliffs and deep valleys covered with luxuriant tropical vegetation. No reefs surround the island, allowing the sea to pile wildly onto the sandy, rocky shoreline. The only thing missing is ... people. Which is a good thing when you're contemplating the idea of paradise, which I happened to be doing on a recent morning, my legs dangling in an infinity pool that seemed to spill into Hanakee Bay. 
 Oddly, the Marquesas were among the first South Pacific islands to be settled, and from their shores departed some of the greatest navigators of all time, those who went on to discover the rest of the so-called Polynesian triangle (Tahiti-Hawaii-Easter Island). The farthest Polynesian islands from Tahiti -- 900 miles -- the Marquesas have long been known as Te Henua Enata (Land of Men). Giant banyan trees cover steep slopes and hide the oldest tikis in French Polynesia, long-preceding their bigger siblings on Easter Island. Also hidden beneath the thick overgrowth are stone remnants of houses built on high platforms, stone temples and ceremonial grounds where games were played and sacrifices made. Simultaneously lush, remote and breathtaking, it was these same scenes that lured such famous paradise seekers as Paul Gauguin, Herman Melville, Robert Louis Stevenson and Thor Heyerdahl.
 Only six of the 10 Marquesas are populated -- Nuku Hiva, Ua Pou, Ua Huku, Hiva Oa, Tahuata and Fatu Hiva. Each is a paradise for hikers, bikers, surfers and canyoneers. Narrow dirt trails crisscross the islands, used mostly by hunters on horseback tracking wild pigs. The only sounds in the jungle are birdcalls and the distant roar of waterfalls, deep in the otherwise quiet, eerie lushness. Sand beaches ring the islands, though few roads lead to them. 
 The small number of Polynesians who do live here populate the river valleys, leaving the interiors mostly to wild horses, cattle and goats. Bird life is rich; the waters teem with lobsters, small fish and sharks. Hotter and drier than Tahiti, their very remoteness has preserved the Marquesas in a day and age when a few islands in French Polynesia risk being over-visited. A couple of the islands can be reached by Air Tahiti several times a week, a few by cargo boat and passing cruise ships every couple of weeks and increasingly by private sailboats. They are hardly off limits, but you have to want to get there.
 Sitting in a wooden deck chair on a recent morning, Gerard Bourgogne, a former concert flutist and part-time computer hacker, and now general manager of the 14-bungalow Hiva-Oa Hanakee Pearl Lodge, thought out loud as we admired the view: ''Crossword puzzle champions would find this place perfect. So would adventure caperers. What about advertising it to infertile couples looking for the ultimate romantic hideaway? I can see the advertisement: 'No better place in the world to truly relax!' Why not yoga instructors and their classes? They should all come!'' 
 While the lack of people is good for misanthropes like myself, it's obviously tough on innkeepers.
 Thanks to Paul Gauguin's tempestuous relationship with the island, Hiva Oa may be the best known of the Marquesas. Or maybe now it is Nuka Hiva, thanks to having been host of the fourth season of ''Survivor.'' It is the biggest of the islands, formed by two volcanoes resting on top of each another, and in 1842 was the first island to be spied from a whaler by Herman Melville, who wrote it was ''a country that no description could fit the beauty.'' 
 Several jagged volcanic peaks mark the diamond-shaped Ua Pou, its tiny offshore islets home to millions of seabirds. It is also home to the chain's most active artist colony, mostly wood carvers and bone necklace makers. Ua Huku is crescent-shaped, home to more goats and wild horses than people (just 575). Fatu Hiva is the southernmost in the chain. Thor Heyerdahl lived here for about a year (1937-38) and wrote a book about his experience; today the local women still make umuhei -- aromatic bouquets, which they wear in their hair as aphrodisiacs -- and scented necklaces made from sandalwood. 
 Hiva Oa was once home to 130,000; today fewer than 1,900 people are scattered through the deep valleys and in a half-dozen small villages scattered around its perimeter. Houses are of painted wood and the landscape is as primitive as it was 1,200 years ago. A long, crescent-shaped beach fronts the biggest town of Atuona, which hasn't changed much since Gauguin built his House of Pleasure in its center. 
 On a hot, dry morning I follow the beach past Atuona and walk four miles to Taaoa, where a sizable tohua (temple) has been restored. Eight-foot-tall marae and tiki made from basalt still hide in the lush forest, mostly hidden. At one time 12,000 people lived in this valley, thus the elaborate temple and sacrificial grounds. This day the sounds are of crowing cocks and a road crew's jackhammer. Human sacrifice has been replaced by worship in a mix of Roman Catholic, Protestant, Mormon and Jehovah's Witness churches.
 If one single thing is responsible for French Polynesia's enduring reputation as paradise, it is the paintings of Gauguin, who moved to Hiva Oa in 1901 after wearing out his welcome on several other Polynesian islands. Filled with grace and mystery, they were mostly of an imagined place, a paradise that did not exist, featuring languorous women smiling into the distance, horses grazing in vanilla groves and baskets overflowing with breadfruit and bananas. A short walk from either the beach or the stone temple into the heart of Atuona delivers me to the doorstep of one of history's most infamous paradise seekers. 
 The two-story, A-frame house is constructed from woven bamboo. Carved around its wooden door frame are erotic figures and the words ''Be Mysterious'' and ''Be in Love.'' The name of the house is carved above its entrance: Maison de Jouir. House of Pleasure, Sexual Pleasure. 
 A dozen wide steps lead up to the second level, the one big room where Paul Gauguin (locally known as Koke) lived and painted. A large window looks out over an open well; Gauguin kept a bamboo rod with a fishing line nearby, to raise and lower cups of cold water from the well to add to his absinthe. Gone are the pornographic photos he kept on the walls, and his collection of walking sticks with carved phallic heads. It was here he gave grand fetes, fed by cases of wine and bonbons bought from passing cargo boats. 
 Gauguin is buried on a hillside above the house, in a small field that looks over the ocean. It is a scene depicted in some of his last paintings. To his headstone is chained a copy of one of his carved statues, called Oviri, or Savage. He was not popular here when he died; in fact he was readying to serve a three-month sentence for libeling a local policeman. 
 Hiva Oa was Gauguin's last gasp and things did not go well for him here. Never one to win friends easily, during the years he lived here he openly mocked the Catholic missionaries in a remote French colony governed by the church. He died in his House of Pleasure with a bad heart, failing eyes, morphine-addicted, leprous and syphilitic and soon to become one of the world's greatest and best-known artists. To his ultimate chagrin, the fame part came mostly posthumously.
 Two days later, thanks to the modern convenience of small aircraft, I found myself hiking remote trails on Nuka Hiva. Each morning I set out from the center of the main town of Taiohae, having asked directions from various locals the night before. I found it difficult to find a consensus when it came to simple questions like, ''How far is it?'' For example, the morning I decided to follow a trail to the far side of the island and a small community at Taipivai, I was told it would take all day to reach the white sand beaches at Controller Bay. It takes about four hours. 
 Outfitters and the government on Nuka Hiva have committed to cutting a trail system across the island in recent years, in part due to the economic kick in the pants the ''Survivor'' show brought to the island. The trails exist thanks to decades of wild pig, horse and hunter's traffic; the idea -- fomented by a local tour company called Marquises Rando -- is to expand them into more accessible walkways without using much modern technology. Why introduce cement and steel when acacia or coconut tree trunks tied together work just as well as bridges, and volcanic rocks are perfect for bordering footpaths? The idea is to open up the mountains to visitors, creating options from six-hour round-trip walks to two-day treks with camps in between. 
 The diversity of walks is incredible. One morning I hire a small boat to carry me to a trailhead that leads to the Ahuii waterfall, which plunges 1,100 feet from high in the dense jungle. It's a two-hour walk that involves a couple of thigh-high river crossings and ends with a swim in the eel-laden pool beneath the falls, and passes a handful of crumbling, thousand-year-old stone platforms along the way. On the opposite side of the island, just up from the beach is the Hikokua tohua where a dozen tikis watch over a grass-covered field once used for games and human sacrifices. Near the beach the biggest modern-day landmark is a sizable beige church and a restaurant big enough to feed the one hundred-plus passengers who arrive by cruise boat every few weeks for a lobster feast. 
 My last hike on Nuka Hiva is up and over a steep, 600-foot-tall pass from the village of Taipivai to a sand beach at Anaho, past stands of wild vanilla and fields of wild horses. The white beach is studded with smooth black boulders, a rare reef slowing the crashing of waves making it perfect for a swim. A solitary man lives in a fishing shack and waves me over to sample some dried fish and coconut milk. A half-dozen big dogs lie in the shade of palms, several wooden fishing boats and a plastic kayak sit overturned.
 As we talk, hiding from the midday sun, I ask for his definition of paradise. Without pause he says simply: ''Wherever I am. And on most days, I am right here!'' 
 GETTING THERE
 The most direct way from New York to the Marquesas is to fly nonstop to Papeete, Tahiti, on Air Tahiti Nui (June to October only; flights in other months have a layover in Los Angeles), about $1,700 (www.airtahitinui-usa.com; 877-824-4846). Air Tahiti Nui also has more frequent flights from Los Angeles. From Papeete to the outer islands of the Marquesas, Air Tahiti flies several times a week to both Hiva Oa and Nuku Hiva, round trip about 63,000 French Polynesian francs, or about $795 at 79.2 francs to the dollar (www.airtahiti.pf; 689-86-42-42).
 An alternative is to see the Marquesas by cruise ship. Regent Seven Seas Cruises sails the Paul Gauguin out of Tahiti and visits the outer islands of French Polynesia several times during the year (www.rssc.com).
 WHERE TO STAY
 There are a few options on either Nuku Hiva or Hiva Oa, starting with home stays, simple rooms with board in family homes. These are difficult to arrange in advance but easy to find once you have arrived at airport or dock. Each island has a Pearl Resort Lodge. The Nuku Hiva Keikahanui Pearl Lodge has 20 bungalows (premium and deluxe) and sits at the end of the main road in Taiohae (rates begin at 25,000 French Polynesian francs plus tax; 689-50-84-52 www.pearlresorts.com/keikahanui).
 The same is true on Hiva Oa. Several families rent out rooms in the main town of Hanakee; from the infinity pool at the Hiva Oa Hanakee Pearl Lodge you have a 200-degree view of 3,900-foot Mount Temetiu. There are 14 bungalows with similar views (www.pearlresorts.com/hiva; the rates and phone number are the same as those for Nuku Hiva). 
 MUST SEE
 On Nuku Hiva, the hotel can arrange horseback rides and motorboat transfer to various trails dead-ending in spectacular waterfalls. The sandy beach at Anaho requires a short (40-minute) hike, but is worth it. Nearby are the sacrifice and worship sites at Hikokua and Kamuihai. On Hiva Oa, it's obligatory to visit the Paul Gauguin Museum and the painter's grave; the French singer Jacques Brel is buried in the same cemetery. An hour's drive to Puamau winds through jungle hills and by seaside overlooks.

CORRECTION-DATE: May 4, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on April 13 about the Marquesas in the South Pacific misidentified one of the countries that make up the so-called Polynesian Triangle and the Polynesian island that is the farthest from Tahiti. In addition to Hawaii and Easter Island, the triangle includes New Zealand, not Tahiti. And Easter Island, not the Marquesas, is the farthest from Tahiti. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ABOVE: The infinity pool at the Hiva Oa Hanakee Pearl Lodge seems to spill into Hanakee Bay. LEFT: The grave of Paul Gauguin is on the island. BELOW: The islands' women wear aromatic bouquets in their hair. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FIONA STEWART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. TR12)
 ABOVE: A bay on Nuku Hiva in the Marquesas in French Polynesia. LEFT: Hiking on Nuku Hiva. The interiors of the islands, in the South Pacific, are largely unpopulated. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FIONA STEWART FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. TR5) MAP Map of the Marquesas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); BEACHES (77%); FISHES (76%); CRUISES (73%); HIKING (72%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%) FRENCH POLYNESIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



334 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: A Fresh Look at the Apostle of Free Markets

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
Joblessness is growing. Millions of homes are sliding into foreclosure. The financial system continues to choke on the toxic leftovers of the mortgage crisis. The downward spiral of the economy is challenging a notion that has underpinned American economic policy for a quarter-century -- the idea that prosperity springs from markets left free of government interference. 
 The modern-day godfather of that credo was Milton Friedman, who attributed the worst economic unraveling in American history to regulators, declaring in a 1976 essay that ''the Great Depression was produced by government mismanagement.'' 
 Five years later, Ronald Reagan entered the White House, elevating Mr. Friedman's laissez-faire ideals into a veritable set of commandments. Taxes were cut, regulations slashed and public industries sold into private hands, all in the name of clearing government from the path to riches. As the economy expanded and inflation abated, Mr. Friedman played the role of chief evangelist in the mission to let loose the animal instincts of the market. 
 But with market forces now seemingly gone feral, disenchantment with regulation has given way to demands for fresh oversight, placing Mr. Friedman's intellectual legacy under fresh scrutiny. 
 Just as the Depression remade government's role in economic life, bringing jobs programs and an expanded welfare system, the current downturn has altered the balance. As Wall Street, Main Street and Pennsylvania Avenue seethe with recriminations, a bipartisan chorus has decided that unfettered markets are in need of fettering. Bailouts, stimulus spending and regulations dominate the conversation. 
 In short, the nation steeped in the thinking of a man who blamed government for the Depression now beseeches government to lift it to safety. If Mr. Friedman, who died in 2006, were still among us, he would surely be unhappy with this turn.
 ''What Milton Friedman said was that government should not interfere,'' said Allen Sinai, chief global economist for Decision Economics Inc., a consulting group. ''It didn't work. We now are looking at one of the greatest real estate busts of all time. The free market is not geared to take care of the casualties, because there's no profit motive. There's no market incentive to deal with the unemployed or those who have lost their homes.''
 To Mr. Friedman, such sentiments, when turned into policy, deprived the economy of the vibrancy of market forces. 
 Born in Brooklyn in 1912 to immigrant parents who worked briefly in sweatshops, Mr. Friedman retained a sense that America was a land of opportunity with ample rewards for the hard-working.
 His intellectual bent was forged as a graduate student at the University of Chicago, a base for those who saw themselves as guardians of classical economics in a world then under the spell of woolly-headed revisionists.
 The chief object of their scorn was John Maynard Keynes, and his message that government had to juice the economy with spending during times of duress. That notion dominated policy in the years after the Depression. Mr. Friedman would spend much of his career assailing it: He argued that government should simply manage the supply of money -- to keep it growing with the economy -- then step aside and let the market do its magic.
 So firm was his regard for market forces, so deep his disdain for government, that Mr. Friedman once said: ''If you put the federal government in charge of the Sahara Desert, in five years there would be a shortage of sand.''
 This antagonism toward bureaucracy seemed to spring from Mr. Friedman's conception of his country as a bastion of rugged individualism. During an interview on PBS in 2000, he noted that Adam Smith, the father of classical economics, published his canonical work, ''The Wealth of Nations,'' in 1776, ''the same year as the American Revolution.''
 He spoke in the interview of his concern at the end of World War II that socialism was gaining adherents because countries had been forced to organize collectively to produce armaments.
 ''You came out of the war with the widespread belief that the war had demonstrated that central planning would work,'' Mr. Friedman said. ''The left, in particular, ... interpreted Russia as a successful experiment in central planning.''
 Mr. Friedman's brand of libertarianism rested on the assumption that economic and political freedom were one and the same. It meshed with and fed the cold war thinking of his time, as the United States offered up capitalism as liberty itself in contrast to the authoritarian Soviet Union.
 Among professional economists, Mr. Friedman's analytical mastery was near-universally admired. 
 His first breakthrough came in the 1950s with his idea that people's savings and spending were not a function of psychological factors, but based on rational estimations of wealth.
 His greatest contribution came the following decade, when Mr. Friedman dismantled the consensus view that inflation was a tolerable byproduct of high employment. He demonstrated that high inflation would eventually cost jobs, as businesses were discouraged to invest by the higher wages they had to pay.
 ''This triumph, more than anything else, confirmed Milton Friedman's status as a great economist's economist, whatever one may think of his other roles,'' Paul Krugman, an economist (and a New York Times columnist) wrote last year in The New York Review of Books.
 Mr. Friedman captured the era with a new formulation known as monetarism: that the government should gradually and predictably inject cash into the financial system, and then let the market figure out where it should go.
 ''Any honest Democrat will admit that we are now all Friedmanites,'' Lawrence H. Summers, the Harvard economist and former Clinton administration Treasury secretary, wrote in an appreciation published in this newspaper when Mr. Friedman died. ''He has had more influence on economic policy as it is practiced around the world today than any other modern figure.''
 But the reviews for Mr. Friedman's work grow mixed when the subject moves to his role as chief proselytizer in the drive to reduce the role of government in public life.
 He laid out a blueprint in his 1962 book, ''Capitalism and Freedom,'' calling for the end of the military draft, the abolition of the licensing of doctors and the creation of ''education vouchers'' that parents could use to send children to private schools, injecting competition into public education.
 Two years later, Mr. Friedman put those principles to work as an economic adviser to the presidential campaign of Senator Barry Goldwater, a Republican from Arizona. The campaign called for the abolition of government oversight of the energy, telephone and airline industries and the dismantling of the Social Security system and national parks.
 Mr. Goldwater took a drubbing at the hands of Lyndon Johnson. Mr. Friedman would remain in the policy wilderness until the rise of President Reagan. Then, his notions about rolling back government took on the force of dogma. 
 This was so not only in the United States, but also throughout much of the world. As former Iron Curtain countries embraced free markets, they did so with Mr. Friedman's books in hand. The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank leaned heavily on his ideas in prescribing policies for countries from Asia to Latin America.
 ''Among the cognoscenti, he became the figure that represented the war against the overwhelming welfare state,'' said Hernando de Soto, a prominent Peruvian economist. ''The idea that people are responsible for progress far more than government. One should reserve most of the action for the private sector. From Brazil to Mexico, that idea is still in place.''
 But Mr. De Soto faulted Mr. Friedman for failing to temper his admonitions with an understanding of poverty and income inequality.
 ''The problem with Milton Friedman and his fellow libertarians is they never took into consideration the importance of class,'' Mr. De Soto said. ''They ignored the way elites were able to distort the policies they prescribed for their own benefit.''
 In much of Latin America, economic growth never reached the poor, laying ground for the socialist backlash now led by Venezuela's president, Hugo Chavez. 
 In the United States, the reconsideration of the Friedman doctrine came via the global financial crisis that has resulted from the collapse of American real estate. Many economists blame regulators for ignoring warning signs that banks and investors were growing reckless. One Friedman acolyte has taken the brunt of such criticisms -- Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve.
 But as America reaches for regulation to tame the markets, the keepers of the Friedman flame remain resolute that government is no solution.
 ''Friedman taught some fundamental long-run truths and he was adept and skilled and almost brilliant at getting them into the public domain,'' said Allan H. Meltzer, an economist at Carnegie Mellon. ''Now we've come into a crisis that has dampened enthusiasm for those policies, and we're headed back into a period of more regulations that will do the same bad things as in the past.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LIBERTARIAN: The economist Milton Friedman, who died in 2006, believed government should keep its hands off the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); RELIGION (69%)

COMPANY: DECISION ECONOMICS INC (64%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



335 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: Roger Ebert, The Critic Behind The Thumb

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
WHAT is film criticism? This may sound like a lofty philosophical question, but I suspect to most people it has a down-to-earth, empirical answer. Film criticism is two guys (and usually it is guys) arguing: shifting in their seats, rolling their eyes, pointing fingers and interrupting, and every now and then agreeing. Or that's the way it looks on television at least.
 One of the guys who made it look that way, who made the crazy idea that movie critics could thrive on TV seem like a no-brainer, recently announced his departure from the airwaves. On April 1 Roger Ebert published a letter to readers of The Chicago Sun-Times that was essentially a farewell to the long-running, widely syndicated weekly program that has made him not simply the best-known movie reviewer in America, but the virtual embodiment of this curious profession. 
 But the real news in Mr. Ebert's letter was his return to regular written criticism. A recurrence of cancer of the salivary gland in the summer of 2006 might have left him unable to speak -- a problem recent surgery failed to solve -- but he has hardly lost his voice. 
 For his loyal readers Mr. Ebert's resumption of reviewing (April 1 happened to be the 41st anniversary of his debut in The Sun-Times) is a chance to pick up an interrupted conversation. For those who labor beside or behind him in the vineyards of criticism it is an incitement to quit grousing and pick up the pace. 
 Not that any of us could hope to match his productivity. Nor could we entertain the comforting fantasy that the daunting quantity of the man's work -- four decades of something like six reviews a week, as well as festival reports, learned essays on classic films and the occasional profile -- must entail a compromise in quality. As A. J. Liebling said of himself, nobody who writes faster can write better, and nobody better is faster. The evidence is easy enough to find: in the Web archive, in his indispensable annual movie guides and in a dozen other books.
 It is this print corpus that will sustain Mr. Ebert's reputation as one of the few authentic giants in a field in which self-importance frequently overshadows accomplishment. His writing may lack the polemical dazzle and theoretical muscle of Pauline Kael and Andrew Sarris, whose names must dutifully be invoked in any consideration of American film criticism. In their heyday those two were warriors, system-builders and intellectual adventurers on a grand scale. But the plain-spoken Midwestern clarity of Mr. Ebert's prose and his genial, conversational presence on the page may, in the end, make him a more useful and reliable companion for the dedicated moviegoer. 
 His criticism shows a nearly unequaled grasp of film history and technique, and formidable intellectual range, but he rarely seems to be showing off. He's just trying to tell you what he thinks, and to provoke some thought on your part about how movies work and what they can do. 
 He is rarely a scold, and more frequently (perhaps too frequently) an enthusiast, and nearly always enlightening, in particular when he has brought calm good sense and moral conviction to overwrought debates about hot-button movies like Oliver Stone's ''JFK'' and Spike Lee's ''Do the Right Thing.'' Other critics (Ms. Kael and Mr. Sarris most famously) have spawned schools, or at least collected bands of acolytes and imitators. Mr. Ebert -- do you mind if I just call him Roger from now on? -- has no disciples, only friends.
 Here I might as well disclose, if it isn't obvious already, that I consider myself one of them. I don't say this to brag, or to put myself in highfalutin company, though when I visited Roger and his wife, Chaz, at their house in Chicago a few months ago I did notice framed photographs of my host with the likes of Bill Clinton, Clint Eastwood and Werner Herzog (not all at once, mind you). But my hunch is that some of Roger's most steadfast friends are people he has never met, people whose living rooms he has graced, for more than 30 years, with his articulate, sometimes combative judgments of coming attractions.
 His writing may be what makes him a great critic, but it is his long career playing a great film critic on television that has brought him fame and fortune. And it is worth pausing to appreciate -- and perhaps also to defend -- his work in that much-maligned medium, which began in 1975, when Roger and Gene Siskel, the chief movie critic at The Chicago Tribune, started a weekly program called ''Opening Soon at a Theater Near You'' on the local public television station. Though they may not have intended as much, they turned what had been lonely, literary pursuit into a collaborative, antagonistic venture and a spectator sport. 
 Shortly thereafter the program, now called ''Sneak Previews,'' went national on PBS, and in 1982 it began its long life, under various names, in commercial syndication, during which ''Siskel and Ebert'' stamped into the public mind, perhaps for the first time, a picture of what film criticism looked like. When Mr. Siskel died in 1999, his place was taken by a series of guest hosts (including President Clinton, on his way out of office) until Richard Roeper, a columnist at The Sun-Times and a sharper dresser than either of the original team, was chosen as Roger's permanent co-host. 
 When Roger's surgery knocked him off the show nearly two years ago, a new round of guest critics, including me, was brought in. About my experiences, which ended when Michael Phillips of The Tribune was made Mr. Roeper's permanent foil, I will say only that impersonating yourself on television is both more fun and more difficult, with or without the aid of thumbs, than it looks. 
 As the show and its fans contemplate a post-Ebert future, we should recall that TV-based movie reviewing, now such a staple of popular culture, was once a novelty. And also, for some, a menace. In ''Awake in the Dark,'' an anthology of ''The Best of Roger Ebert'' published by the University of Chicago Press two years ago, you will find a 1990 essay by Roger's friend Richard Corliss of Time and (at the time) Film Comment lamenting that the noble, still-young tradition of Mr. Sarris and Ms. Kael, and of James Agee and Manny Farber too, was in danger of being permanently dumbed-down and quantified. Passionate argument and reasoned judgment, he warned, were being driven to the margins by scales of one to four stars, by opposed thumbs and sound bites. 
 The title of Mr. Corliss's essay was ''All Thumbs, or, Is There a Future for Film Criticism?'' This kind of rhetorical question is meant to be answered in the negative, and if the future looked grim back in 1990 -- when Entertainment Weekly's letter grades and the proliferation of Siskel and Ebert knockoffs seemed to threaten the integrity of the critical enterprise -- what must it look like now that the Internet is gobbling up all discourse? If a star- or thumb-based rating system was the enemy of nuance and complex thought, what are we to make of the splattered fruit at rottentomatoes.com or the numerical averages at metacritic.com? 
 And if the print media were inhospitable then to the survival and flourishing of criticism, many of them seem now to have become actively, lethally hostile. Sean P. Means, who writes for The Salt Lake Tribune, has compiled a list of 27 critics who have, over the past year or so, been downsized, laid off, bought out or otherwise subjected to a corporate logic of streamlining and syndication. Local dailies and weeklies, increasingly enfeebled links in national chains, no longer see a need to keep employees on the payroll whose job is to see movies before everyone else does and report back knowledgeably on what they've seen.
 Such attrition is hardly limited to movie reviewers, and it has more to do with the economics of newspapers than with the health of criticism as a cultural undertaking. If you spend time prowling the blogs, you may discover that the problem is not a shortage of criticism but a glut: an endless, sometimes bracing, sometimes vexing barrage of deep polemic, passionate analysis and fierce contention reflecting nearly every possible permutation of taste and sensibility.
 It seems to me that ''Sneak Previews'' and its descendants, far from advancing the vulgarization of film criticism, extended its reach and strengthened its essentially democratic character. That is not to say that chatting about a movie in front of a camera (actually three cameras), and bouncing from a scripted mini-review to improvised cross-talk, can ever achieve the depth or nuance of a polished piece of writing. (Roger has often admitted as much. When I was at his house, he scribbled a bit of wisdom on the small spiral notebook that is his main conversational vehicle these days: the gist was that when writing, you should avoid cliche, but on television you should embrace it.)
 Does film criticism have a future? What is film criticism, anyway? It is, for some of us, a job, sometimes a vocation and arguably a profession. 
 One recent afternoon I was sitting at my computer studying old clips of Gene and Roger. After a while my daughter sat down next to me. We watched in silence for a while, and then she said: ''These guys are always fighting. Even when they both like a movie, they have to fight about why it's good.'' That may not be an exhaustive definition of criticism as a discipline or a mode of thought, but it strikes me as a pretty good summary. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Pauline Kael and Andrew Sarris, above, were warriors, who had acolytes and disciples. Roger Ebert (near left, in glasses, with Gene Siskel), writes with plain-spoken clarity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTHA HOLMES/TIME LIFE PICTURES -- GETTY IMAGES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. AR22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (92%); FILM (90%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (76%); FESTIVALS (73%); HEAD & NECK CANCER (52%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

COMPANY: CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



336 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BILHUBER, EDMUND (NED)

 BODY:
 BILHUBER--Edmund (Ned), of Madison, NJ, Founder of The Milton School. Edmund Bilhuber, 84, died peacefully on April 10th at his home in Madison, New Jersey. 
In 1969, Mr. Bilhuber founded The Milton School, now in Livingston, NJ, a nonprofit, non-sectarian secondary school to help children with learning disabilities, and served as Chairman. He helped raise funds for the A-T Children's Project, for research to find a cure for A-T Disease. Ned grew up in Douglaston, LI, New York. A member of the class of 1945 at Colgate University, he was president of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity. He graduated in 1947 after serving two years as a combat medic in a rifle company with the 104 Infantry Division in Europe. He was awarded the Bronze Star for valor. He then attended Harvard Business School and New York Institute of Finance. After retiring as co-owner of Economic Benefits Corp. in Springfield, NJ, Mr. Bilhuber then founded and was President of The Solutions Group, Consultants to Management. Surviving him are his wife Janet, son Paul Bilhuber of Millburn, NJ, daughter Pamela Blair of Carlisle, MA, brothers Ernest Bilhuber of Annapolis, MD and Henry Bilhuber of Rosemont, PA, grandchildren Gregory Blair and Allison Blair of Carlisle, MA and eight stepchildren. A private memorial service is being planned for the future. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to AT Children's Project, 668 South Military Trail, Deerfield Beach, FL 33442 (1-800-5HELP-A-T). Services by Wm. A. Bradley & Son Funeral Home, 345 Main Street, Chatham, NJ. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CHILDREN (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); DISABLED PERSONS (57%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF FINANCE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: COLGATE UNIVERSITY (57%); PHI KAPPA PSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



337 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths BILHUBER, EDMUND (NED)

 BODY:
 BILHUBER--Edmund (Ned), of Madison, NJ, Founder of The Milton School. Edmund Bilhuber, 84, died peacefully on April 10th at his home in Madison, New Jersey. 
In 1969, Mr. Bilhuber founded The Milton School, now in Livingston, NJ, a nonprofit, non-sectarian secondary school to help children with learning disabilities, and served as Chairman. He helped raise funds for the A-T Children's Project, for research to find a cure for A-T Disease. Ned grew up in Douglaston, LI, New York. A member of the class of 1945 at Colgate University, he was president of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity. He graduated in 1947 after serving two years as a combat medic in a rifle company with the 104 Infantry Division in Europe. He was awarded the Bronze Star for valor. He then attended Harvard Business School and New York Institute of Finance. After retiring as co-owner of Economic Benefits Corp. in Springfield, NJ, Mr. Bilhuber then founded and was President of The Solutions Group, Consultants to Management. Surviving him are his wife Janet, son Paul Bilhuber of Millburn, NJ, daughter Pamela Blair of Carlisle, MA, brothers Ernest Bilhuber of Annapolis, MD and Henry Bilhuber of Rosemont, PA, grandchildren Gregory Blair and Allison Blair of Carlisle, MA and eight stepchildren. A private memorial service is being planned for the future. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to AT Children's Project, 668 South Military Trail, Deerfield Beach, FL 33442 (1-800-5HELP-A-T). Services by Wm. A. Bradley & Son Funeral Home, 345 Main Street, Chatham, NJ. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CHILDREN (90%); FUNDRAISING (78%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); DISABLED PERSONS (57%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF FINANCE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: COLGATE UNIVERSITY (57%); PHI KAPPA PSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MARYLAND USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



338 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1542 words

HEADLINE: For the West, Many Tough Calls on China

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Jim Yardley contributed reporting from Beijing, Alison Smale from Berlin, Katrin Bennhold from Paris and Katie Thomas from New York.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
As the Dalai Lama begins a contentious two-week visit to the United States and the Olympic torch continues its tortuous journey across six continents toward Beijing, the 2008 Games, already tarnished, have become a political as well as an athletic spectacle, with vying theories of human rights and how best to promote them.
 Groups devoted to causes as diverse as press freedom, Falun Gong, Tibet and autonomy for Uighur Muslims in China's far west have used the Games as leverage to highlight issues that had been relegated to advocacy chat rooms during most of China's long economic boom.
 Aggressive street demonstrations in London, Paris and the United States, and mounting calls for President Bush and other world leaders to skip the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games in August as a show of protest against China's internal policies, have produced a nationalist backlash in China. There, both the leadership and ordinary people resent what many see as a plot to disrupt the Games and damage China's image as a rising power, which the Olympics once seemed likely to burnish. 
 Politics has not intruded on the Games to this extent since Soviet bloc countries boycotted the 1984 Olympics in Los Angeles in retaliation for a United States-led boycott of the Moscow Games in 1980, after the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. 
 The post-Los Angeles consensus that the world's foremost sporting event should remain exclusively a celebration of athletic excellence appears to have frayed. How political the Games will become, and whether international pressure on China will improve or worsen its policies on Tibet, Darfur and other delicate issues, has become a major worry for diplomats, athletes and commercial sponsors of the Olympics.
 Eberhard Sandschneider, a China expert at the German Council on Foreign Relations in Berlin, said that the protests around the Games had created an uncomfortable moral dilemma for Western democracies even as Chinese leaders dug in their heels.
 ''The country is economically so attractive and by now so powerful that any measures we take will be met with painful countermeasures,'' he said. ''The Olympics are important to the Chinese, but not as important as Tibet. Sovereignty and stability will always outweigh public relations.''
 The French foreign minister, the human rights advocate Bernard Kouchner, finds himself torn -- unable and unwilling to criticize the protesters, but understanding that loud street protests may make Chinese change more difficult. ''We can't reduce foreign policy to human rights,'' he said, telling the newspaper Le Figaro that France wanted to ''facilitate'' renewed dialogue between the Dalai Lama and Beijing. But the protests ''make a solution more complicated,'' he said.
 The most obvious pressure is on Western political leaders to engage in a symbolic boycott of the opening ceremony on Aug. 8. Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain and Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, have said they will not accept invitations to attend the opening of the Games. Even the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, a Korean, made it clear on Thursday that his schedule would not permit him to attend the opening ceremony.
 President Bush, who plans to attend the Games, has said that he considers the Olympics nonpolitical but has not specified whether he intends to participate in the opening ceremony. Many members of Congress have urged him to skip it, and all three presidential contenders have suggested or urged that he reconsider attending. 
 President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, who first suggested boycotting the opening ceremony to promote a renewed dialogue between China and the Dalai Lama, has himself not finally decided, trying to use his decision as leverage on Beijing. After denying stiff conditions for his attendance set by Rama Yade, his human rights minister, including the end of all violence in Tibet, Mr. Sarkozy said he would decide whether to go only after seeing if the dialogue was renewed.
 Speaking after the Paris protests, Mr. Sarkozy said: ''It was sad to see the flame and the athletes booed, and I can understand that the Chinese have a problem.'' But ''for the Olympics to go ahead in a peaceful fashion, dialogue needs to resume,'' he said.
 The European news media and public opinion appear to support a tough stand. In Germany, the cover of this week's Der Spiegel magazine is the five Olympic rings retooled in barbed wire, with a picture of Chinese leaders underneath. The article focuses on the heavy-handed treatment of dissent, opening with the wife and baby daughter of a jailed dissident, Hu Jia.
 A cartoon in the French newspaper Le Monde showed a citizen ''training for the Olympics'' by facing his armchair away from the television set, and the leftist newspaper Liberation is selling a T-shirt for protesters.
 Leading advocacy groups appear unlikely to let the pressure die down before the Games. Supporters of greater autonomy for Tibetans have seen their cause catapulted into the headlines around the world, with an outpouring of support for the exiled Dalai Lama and widespread calls, including from Mr. Bush and most European leaders, for Beijing to engage him in a meaningful dialogue. 
 Tsering Jampa, executive director for Europe of the International Campaign for Tibet, said the Olympic Games were the best hope Tibetans and human rights campaigners ever had to extract concessions from Beijing.
 ''This is China's coming-out party,'' she said. ''European governments should use this opportunity to really push the issues of human rights and Tibet. If heads of states are saying that they may not go to the opening ceremony, that helps.''
 Martha Bixby, executive director of Team Darfur, a coalition of athletes seeking to highlight Beijing's support for Sudan, which Washington has accused of genocide in Darfur, said critics must prod changes in Chinese policy.
 Activist groups must ensure ''that it's not just superficial change to make things look better, that it's actually something that's going to make a difference,'' she said.
 But the reaction in Beijing does not suggest much inclination to capitulate to demands from activists. Officials there continue to label the Dalai Lama a ''splitist'' bent on sabotaging the Olympics, and they have shown no signs of softening their approach to managing Tibet or renewing a dialogue with the exiled spiritual leader. 
 On the contrary, Chinese are blaming foreigners for the tensions. Mr. Sarkozy's decision to leave the door open to a partial boycott of the Games prompted a populist appeal in China to boycott French goods, circulated on the Internet. Chinese users also circulated a photograph of a protester, in a cap with Tibetan colors, trying to grab the torch from a Chinese woman in a wheelchair, who was praised in Beijing for protecting the flame.
 China's fierce pride also covers a deeper defensiveness, a sense that China's rise has made it the target for the hypocritical anger of a wounded West, especially the United States and Europe, that resents such a successful new rival for global trade and influence.
 The reaction suggests that the governing Communist Party will probably respond if protests and boycott threats continue to escalate. ''If any country takes actions that are seen as harming the dignity of the Chinese people, it will have to act,'' predicted Shi Yinhong, professor of international relations at People's University in Beijing.
 Mr. Shi said any boycott would not influence China's overall foreign policy. But he predicted Beijing may take a harder line in trade talks with European partners, especially France. ''People are very unhappy with the French president,'' he added. 
 By contrast, China would be able to save some face if European leaders simply declined to attend the opening ceremony without linking their absence to Tibet -- the tack chosen by Mr. Brown. Then, Mr. Shi predicted, ''China will remain quiet and say, 'Our invitation remains open.' '' 
 While the Olympics have often been used for political purposes -- famously by Hitler in 1936, when Jesse Owens made such a mark, and even in 1968 in Mexico, when American athletes used a black-power salute to highlight discrimination at home -- this controversy is also underscoring a sharp disconnect in perception between China and the West. Even as the Chinese security team protecting the torch has drawn pungent criticism in Europe, its members are portrayed as heroes in the Chinese news media for guarding the Olympic flame and, by extension, protecting the apolitical Olympic spirit.
 The procession of the flame, now being limited and rethought in places including Indonesia, has been a rallying spot for other complaints about Chinese interests and practices.
 A good example is the Kenyan Nobel Peace laureate and environmentalist Wangari Maathai, who pulled out of this weekend's leg of the relay in Tanzania in protest. ''I am troubled that these Olympics, rather than being a unifying movement, have become most divisive,'' she said. Still, she called on China to help defuse tensions in Darfur, Tibet and Myanmar. 
 ''In all of these issues,'' she said, ''China can make a difference, and that is what the world is urging them to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Indian and Tibetan children prayed for peace at Rajghat, the memorial to Gandhi in New Delhi. Their demonstration was organized by Bachpan Bachao Andolan, a children's advocacy group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANPREET ROMANA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BOYCOTTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC TORCH PROTESTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); RELIGION (71%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); BERNARD KOUCHNER (50%); GORDON BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); TIBET (94%); FRANCE (90%); INDIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



339 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2098 words

HEADLINE: War Plans

BYLINE: By NIALL FERGUSON. 
Niall Ferguson is a professor at Harvard University and Harvard Business School, a fellow of Jesus College, Oxford, and a senior fellow of the Hoover Institution at Stanford.

 BODY:
TERROR AND CONSENT 
 The Wars for the Twenty-First Century. 
 By Philip Bobbitt. 
 672 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $35. 
 The age of ''Atlantic man'' is conventionally thought to be over. Some, like Parag Khanna, foresee the rise of a ''second world'' to challenge American hegemony. Others, notably Fareed Zakaria, are harbingers of a ''post-American world.'' The rapid economic rise of China (and India) suggests to many that the geopolitical center of gravity no longer lies somewhere between Washington and London. The embarrassments of the Anglo-American ''special relationship'' in Iraq have encouraged others (myself among them) to predict a decline of American empire. 
 Philip Bobbitt, however, is homo atlanticus redux. A dapper Southerner, renowned almost as much for his sparkling literary allusions as for his acute thinking, he divides his time among Austin, Tex.; New York, where he teaches law at Columbia; and London, where he has lectured in war studies. His new book, ''Terror and Consent,'' is in many ways a manifesto for a new Atlanticism, not just a reassertion but a reinvention of the dominant role of the trans-Atlantic alliance. It will be read with pleasure by men of a certain age, class and education from Manhattan's Upper East Side to London's West End. 
 But ''Terror and Consent'' is much more than that readership might suggest. This is quite simply the most profound book to have been written on the subject of American foreign policy since the attacks of 9/11 -- indeed, since the end of the cold war. I have no doubt it will be garlanded with prizes. It deserves to be. It is more important that it should be read, marked and inwardly digested by all three of the remaining candidates to succeed George W. Bush as president of the United States.
 Bobbitt's originality lies in his almost unique ability to synthesize three quite different traditions of scholarship. The first is history. The second is law, particularly constitutional law. The third is military strategy. This synthesis owes as much to the corridors of power as to the sequestered groves of academe. Bobbitt was an associate counsel to President Carter, legal counsel to the Senate's Iran-Contra committee and a senior director on the National Security Council under President Clinton.
 In his last book, ''The Shield of Achilles'' (2002), Bobbitt advanced a bold argument about the history of international relations since the time of the Treaty of Westphalia (1648). His central argument was that, in the aftermath of the cold war, the traditional post-Westphalian ideal of the sovereign nation-state had become obsolescent. In the increasingly borderless world we associate with globalization, something new was emerging, which Bobbitt called (and continues to call) the ''market-state.'' This state's relationship to its citizens resembles that between a corporation and consumers. Its counterpart -- and enemy -- is the terrorist network. The central problem raised in ''The Shield of Achilles'' was how far the market-state could and should go to defeat such networks, particularly when they were in some measure sponsored by traditional nation-states.
 Read as a tract for the times, ''The Shield of Achilles'' seemed to exemplify the change in American attitudes to foreign policy that began after the collapse of the Soviet Union, accelerated during the Balkan wars of the 1990s and came to a head after 9/11. Some reviewers took it to be a neoconservative work, and Bobbitt's support for the invasion of Iraq in 2003 lent credence to that view. However, read as a work of history, it was no such thing. Rather, it was a reflection on the decline of national sovereignty in an age of globalization.
 ''Terror and Consent'' is less historical; indeed, it is more concerned with the future and how best we should anticipate its challenges. Did I say ''the future''? Bobbitt has learned from the scenario-builders of Royal Dutch Shell the essential point that there is really no such thing as the future -- only futures (plural). The task he has set himself here is to challenge nearly all our existing ideas about the so-called wars on terror (note, once again, the plural), in the belief that only a root-and-branch rethinking will equip us to deal with the problems posed by ''the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, mass terrorist atrocities and humanitarian crises that bring about or are brought about by terror.'' 
 Bobbitt's central premise is that today's Islamic terrorist network, which he calls Al Qaeda for short, is like a distorted mirror image of the post-Westphalian market-
 state: decentralized, privatized, outsourced and in some measure divorced from territorial sovereignty. The terrorists are at once parasitical on, and at the same time hostile toward, the globalized economy, the Internet and the technological revolution in military affairs. Just as the plagues in the 14th century were unintended consequences of increased trade and urbanization, so terrorism is a negative externality of our borderless world. 
 The difference, of course, is one of intent. The rats that transported the lethal fleas that transported the lethal enterobacteria Yersinia pestis did not mean to devastate the populations of Eurasia and Africa. The Black Death was a natural disaster. Al Qaeda is different. Its members seek to undermine the market-state by turning its own technological achievements against it in a protracted worldwide war, the ultimate goal of which is to create a Sharia-based ''terror-state'' in the form of a new caliphate. Osama bin Laden and his confederates want to acquire nuclear or biological weapons of mass destruction. Precisely because of the nature of the market-state, as well as the actions of rogue nation-states, the key components and knowledge are very close to being available to them -- witness the nuclear Wal-Mart run in Pakistan by A. Q. Khan. With such weapons, the terrorists will be able to unleash a super-9/11, with scarcely imaginable human and psychological costs. 
 In short, we are in a war. Those who say that you cannot fight an abstract noun have misunderstood that ''terror'' itself is being deployed as a weapon against us by a hostile and calculating nongovernmental organization. To refine his argument, Bobbitt introduces a distinction. Both the market-states and the nation-states of the West are democratic; they are ''states of consent,'' in which the rule of law exists to uphold individual liberty and rights. Our adversaries aim to replace our consent-based order with a ''state of terror.''
 So how should you fight terror? Like the British soldier-philosopher Rupert Smith, Bobbitt argues that the Bush administration blundered in Iraq by waging the wrong kind of war. As a victory over a suspected rogue nation-state, Operation Iraqi Freedom was a triumph. But the ''war amongst the people'' that then had to be waged to convert Iraq into an ally in the war on terror was a fiasco. Bush had wanted an old-style victory-with-parades. In these new wars there can be no such resolution (hence Bobbitt's earlier coinage, ''the long war,'' which a more sober Bush briefly adopted).
 To make matters worse, the Bush administration has seemed to glory in its contempt for the rule of law, even as it has posed as the exporter of freedom. A memberof the Democratic Party (and nephew of Lyndon Johnson), Bobbitt is damning about the deficiencies of the Patriot Act, the ''prison colony'' at Guantanamo Bay, the use of torture and the willful evasion of existing law that has accompanied it. Yet many of his fellow Democrats (not to mention many libertarians on the right) will be stopped short by what Bobbitt says next.
 Bush's instinct was not wrong. In this war, we do need pre-emptive detention of suspected terrorists; we do need a significant increase of surveillance, particularly of electronic communications; we do need, in some circumstances, to use coercive techniques (short of torture) to elicit information from terrorists. The administration's fatal mistake was its failure to understand that these things could be achieved by appropriate modifications of the law. By doing what indeed was needed, but doing it outside the law, the administration undermined the legitimacy of American policy at home as well as abroad. Bobbitt is emphatic: all branches of government must act in conformity with the Constitution and the law. 
 With lawyerly precision, Bobbitt explores the classic conundrum of the ''ticking bomb'': a detainee very likely has knowledge of a concealed explosive device that, if detonated, will kill thousands. In such a case, because the ends really do justify the means, the right thing may indeed be to torture him. But doing so, Bobbitt argues, can never be legal. The torturer would have to stand trial for his action, though with the strong presumption that he would be acquitted if he had succeeded in averting a disaster. Under less extreme circumstances, Bobbitt suggests, it should be possible for government agents to use coercive methods short of torture (sleep deprivation, truth drugs), but only with the prior approval of a jury.
 Nor is this all that we must do if we are to preserve security without sacrificing legality. Bobbitt argues for a radical overhaul of our intelligence system, arguing that traditional antinomies (United States citizen/foreigner, gathering/analysis, private/public) are now an obstacle to effective action. Yes, we really do need something like the abortive Total Information Awareness program, pooling every available piece of data and mining it for clues about the next 9/11. We also need to take large-scale precautions to ensure that constitutional and legal order do not break down in the event of a terrorist attack or natural disaster. 
 Above all, we need a new foreign policy doctrine. Old doctrines like deterrence and containment are obsolete and must give way to new strategies of ''preclusion'' (a word that distinguishes it from the term ''pre-emption'' in the National Security Strategy of 2002, though the sense seems to be the same). Unilateralism must certainly be abandoned. The United States and its allies must recognize their common fate as the natural defenders of the society of states of consent, while the United States and the European Union should form a new G2, committed to a post-Westphalian notion of sovereignty, yet assuring that their overseas interventions are governed by a new instrument of international law. 
 In a superbly intelligent chapter, Bobbitt concedes that his vision will not be easy to realize. There is what he calls a ''triage of terror,'' because pre-emptive action against one threat may exacerbate another (for example, an attack on a state sponsor of terror may encourage other states to seek weapons of mass destruction as insurance, undermining the already frail system of nonproliferation). There is still the danger, too, that a far worse war than the war on terror could occur if the newly emergent market-states of the East come into conflict with those in the West. 
 Only one point seems to elude Bobbitt, and that is what seems to me to be the great defect of any pre-emptive action by a democratic regime: the electoral rewards for success are slight because the public finds it hard to be grateful for a nonevent. Retaliation, by contrast, is a surefire vote-winner. That is a major difficulty, I think, since the United States can scarcely be an effective ''claviger'' (key bearer) and ''steward'' of the states of consent if its executive cannot secure enduring domestic consent for its ''preclusive'' actions.
 To summarize: Bobbitt believes that there is a real war against terror; that civil liberties as previously understood may need to be curtailed to win it; that we must nevertheless fight it without violating our commitment to the rule of law; and that the United States cannot win it alone. This is certainly not a combination of positions calculated to endear Bobbitt either to the left or the right in the United States today. 
 Yet it is striking that, despite being a Democrat, Philip Bobbitt so often echoes the arguments made by John McCain on foreign policy. He sees the terrorist threat as deadly serious. He is willing to fight it. But he wants to fight it within the law, and with our traditional allies. 
 Perhaps -- who knows? -- this brilliant book may also be an application for the post of national security adviser. In times of war, stranger bedfellows have been known than a Democratic Texas lawyer and a Republican Arizona soldier.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Detainees in a Guantanamo holding area, January 2002. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETTY OFFICER 1ST CLASS SHANE T. MCCOY/U.S. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE, VIA REUTERS )(pg. 10) DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); COLD WAR (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (79%); LITERATURE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); LAWYERS (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (59%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (76%); JIMMY CARTER (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

TITLE: Terror and Consent (Book)>; Terror and Consent (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



340 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Bad Bet

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CALDWELL. 
Christopher Caldwell, a contributing writer, last wrote for the magazine about the Republican Party and economics.

 BODY:
In March, the Massachusetts House of Representatives rejected a measure that looked unstoppable when it was proposed by Gov. Deval Patrick last September: the authorization of ''destination casinos'' across the commonwealth. The plan was for Massachusetts to sell three 10-year licenses for at least $200 million apiece and then tax the casinos' takings at 27 percent, raking in $400 million a year. That, went the reckoning, would cover a $1.3 billion budget shortfall. Patrick was backed by The Boston Globe, big casino corporations and some trade unions. His opponent, the House speaker, Salvatore DiMasi, warned of ''human devastation'' and suggested that Massachusetts could aim higher. ''We are the Athens of America,'' DiMasi said at a St. Patrick's Day breakfast. ''Do we really want this? Do we need this casino culture?'' 
 There are now more than 500 casinos in the U.S., most of them set up over the last two decades. They account for more than half of the almost $100 billion that Americans wager every year. Cash-strapped states and cities can tap this money through taxes and fees. Kansas recently legalized gambling to better finance education (with the money of people across the state line in Kansas City, Mo.). Detroit uses its three casinos for urban renewal, Indian betting resorts in Connecticut have replaced jobs lost to military downsizing and Western tribes use gambling for development aid. Like tax cuts in the mind of a supply-sider, casinos are the answer no matter what the question. They create money out of thin air.
 Anyone who believes this is likely to see the battle in Massachusetts as a contest between sophisticated libertarians (Patrick) and tut-tutting prudes (DiMasi). But that is a mistake. Liberty isn't the issue. Patrick's conviction that you can balance the budget with blackjack and slot machines depends as much on the moral disapproval of gambling as DiMasi's skepticism does. Consider: If a state wants to get involved in a business, why does it have to pick a vice like gambling? Why can't it run, say, a chain of ice-cream parlors? The answer is that collecting huge fees or taxes requires huge profits. Huge profits require monopolies (or oligopolies). Yet no mainstream politician today defends monopoly on economic grounds. Someone who proposed shuttering every Ben & Jerry's in Massachusetts in order to make way for a state ice-cream scheme would be dismissed as unhinged. The only grounds for setting up a gambling monopoly are moral ones. Patrick's vision of billions in betting revenues relies on the folk wisdom that gambling is too dangerous and corrupting to be left to the free market. 
 Measures to spread gambling generally involve dressing up regulation as deregulation. A referendum on the ballot in Maryland this fall, championed by Martin O'Malley, the Democratic governor, will ask voters to amend the state Constitution to permit 15,000 slot machines. But, in fact, thanks to a loophole in the ''charitable gambling'' laws meant to facilitate raffles and bingo, there already are thousands of gambling machines in barrooms across Maryland. Oddly, the state senate is moving ahead on a bill to ban these machines -- even as the state prepares the referendum to ''legalize'' gambling. 
 Casinos are marketed to voters the same way they are marketed to patrons -- by accentuating moments of exhilaration and playing down the way the business is designed to take in more money than it pays out. The image of the gambler that casinos want to convey is of someone wild, free, savvy, like a rogue in a cologne ad or a John Ford movie. He knows when to hold 'em, knows when to fold 'em. This image is meant not only to flatter the gambler but also to legitimize the casino. Mister Free Spirit wouldn't play a rigged game.
 There is a catch, though. The most important segment of gamblers is not free. And those gamblers are important because they are not free. Compulsive and problem gamblers make up only 2.4 percent of gamblers, according to the National Gambling Impact Study Commission, but they account for a third of receipts, or more. A 1995 Minnesota study found that 1 percent of patrons made half the wagers. Where you have saturation gambling, as in Las Vegas, about two-thirds of residents at least try it -- and 2.4 percent of that two-thirds is a ton of problem gamblers. It translates into rises in suicide, embezzlement and bankruptcy that have real social costs. 
 Nonpathological gambling has its costs, too. Introduce casinos in Massachusetts, and you will indeed recapture some of the hundreds of millions of dollars that Bay Staters drop in the resorts of Connecticut. But you will also capture a lot of money that people would have spent in local restaurants and movie theaters. The infrastructure required for gambling -- from road building to hiring new police -- is costly as well. Once you make those adjustments, the economic upside of gambling evaporates. The economist Earl Grinols estimates the ratio of gambling costs to gambling benefits at higher than three to one. Voters sense this. The rule of thumb, according to Grinols, is that pro-gambling interests lose referendum battles whenever they do not outspend their opponents by at least 75 to 1.
 Gambling appears a less glamorous habit when the country is digging its way out of mortgage and credit-card debt. In mid-March, the Colorado Division of Gaming announced that revenues at local gambling resorts were down 10 percent. The next day, Moody's Investors Service reported that casino revenues in January dropped 17 percent in Illinois, 10 percent in Atlantic City and 8 percent in Indiana. Maybe Massachusetts knows something these places don't. But you don't have to live in the Athens of America to see that our economy is one in which those who know when to fold 'em are foldin' 'em. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: HOUSE RULES: Gambling revenue in the United States (in billions) (Source: American Gaming Association)
(CHART BY CHARLES M. BLOW)
PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN PARR
 MAGNUM PHOTOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ICE CREAM (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); CITIES (66%); CARTELS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (55%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

COMPANY: BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (51%)

PERSON: DEVAL PATRICK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



341 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: In Searching For New Job, Gonzales Sees No Takers

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Alberto R. Gonzales, like many others recently unemployed, has discovered how difficult it can be to find a new job. Mr. Gonzales, the former attorney general, who was forced to resign last year, has been unable to interest law firms in adding his name to their roster, Washington lawyers and his associates said in recent interviews. 
 He has, through friends, put out inquiries, they said, and has not found any takers. What makes Mr. Gonzales's case extraordinary is that former attorneys general, the government's chief lawyer, are typically highly sought.
 A longtime loyalist to George W. Bush dating to their years together in Texas, Mr. Gonzales was once widely viewed as a strong candidate to be the first Hispanic-American nominated one day to the Supreme Court. A graduate of Harvard Law School, he carried an impressive personal story as the child of poor Mexican immigrants.
 Despite those credentials, he left office last August with a frayed reputation over his role in the dismissal of several federal prosecutors and the truthfulness of his testimony about a secret eavesdropping program. He has had no full-time job since his resignation, and his principal income has come from giving a handful of talks at colleges and before private business groups. 
 ''Maybe the passage of time will provide some opportunity for him,'' said one Washington lawyer who was aware of an inquiry to his firm from a Gonzales associate. ''I wouldn't say 'rebuffed,' '' said the lawyer, who asked his name not be used because the situation being described was uncomfortable for Mr. Gonzales. ''I would say 'not taken up.' '' 
 The greatest impediment to Mr. Gonzales's being offered the kind of high-salary job being snagged these days by lesser Justice Department officials, many lawyers agree, is his performance during his last few months in office. In that period, he was openly criticized by lawmakers for being untruthful in his sworn testimony. His conduct is being investigated by the Office of the Inspector General of the Justice Department, which could recommend actions from exonerating him to recommending criminal charges. Friends set up a fund to help pay his legal bills.
 Asked about reports that law firms have not taken up feelers from Mr. Gonzales, Robert H. Bork Jr., a corporate communications specialist and his spokesman, said Mr. Gonzales was talking to many people about the next steps in his career. ''He is considering his opportunities in law and business,'' Mr. Bork said, ''but after many years in public service he is considering his options carefully.''
 He said Mr. Gonzales ''looks forward to the conclusion of the department's inquiries and getting on with his life.''
 While he has not taken any full-time job, friends said he was probably receiving as much income from speaking engagements as he did as attorney general with its annual salary of more than $191,000. Places like Washington University in St. Louis, Ohio State University and the University of Florida have paid him about $30,000 plus expenses for appearances, and the business groups pay a bit more, said sources at the schools and elsewhere who are familiar with the arrangements. Pomona College debated inviting him and decided he was not worth the money, the college newspaper reported.
 His first speech at the University of Florida last November was interrupted by protesters dressed as detainees.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alberto R. Gonzales 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (92%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (67%)

PERSON: ALBERTO GONZALES (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



342 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; MUNICIPAL FINANCE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Cash-Short Cities Want New Slice of Taxes

BYLINE: By GREGORY B. HLADKY

 BODY:
AS the economy sinks, Connecticut's big-city mayors are growing increasingly desperate for new revenue sources to cope with soaring costs, the housing crisis and an overburdened property tax system.
 But a major increase in state aid doesn't seem to be in the cards in a year when state revenues are falling and cautious lawmakers are facing re-election.
 Enter an idea Connecticut has never tried before: giving cities a direct share of some state tax revenues. 
 The matter came up recently when the mayors of New Haven, Bridgeport, Stamford and New London went to Hartford on March 24 to ask legislators to give municipalities the option of raising the state's 6 percent tax on goods and services by one cent in their cities, with the extra cent going to their coffers. This is similar to systems used in at least 38 other states, including New York and New Jersey. 
 Hartford's mayor, Eddie A. Perez, who was not at the meeting, is also joining the other mayors in calling for a higher sales tax in his city. The mayors argued that their local sales tax plan would provide their cities with badly needed new revenue without forcing lawmakers to support an overall state tax increase.
 But the mayors' plan drew immediate opposition from key lawmakers in both parties and Gov. M. Jodi Rell, a Republican, who insists the state shouldn't be raising taxes in an economic downturn.
 Democrats instead came up with a complex alternative that includes sharing half of state hotel tax revenues with the cities where the money is generated, using funds from disposal of unclaimed properties, and a new tax on delivery services like Federal Express and the United Parcel Service. The plan could provide more than $102 million in new revenues to municipalities.
 Despite strenuous Republican opposition, Democrats used their majority muscle to push the measure through the legislature's Finance, Revenue and Bonding Committee on a 36-15 party-line vote.
 But almost as soon as the committee took its vote, the measure faced opposition from both Governor Rell and the House speaker, James A. Amann.
 ''The proposal for a new tax on business is especially ill-timed,'' said the governor's spokesman, Christopher Cooper, ''given the economic pressures many of Connecticut's small and mid-sized businesses are currently experiencing with the downturn in the national economy.'' 
 Mr. Amann, a Democrat from Milford, said: ''This is not the time to raise taxes. This isn't going to be helpful to business.'' 
 The speaker also said he had been ''a little surprised'' that the Democratic leaders of the finance committee who proposed the new tax hadn't consulted with him first.
 With both the governor and Mr. Amann against it, the new tax on delivery services would appear to stand little chance. But Representative Cameron Staples of New Haven, co-chairman of the finance committee, said discussions of that proposal or some alternative form of new revenue for cities and towns would continue through the budget negotiations ''right up to the end of the session.''
 According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, 43 states (including New York and New Jersey) already offer counties, cities and some special districts the option to levy local taxes on sales, income or payrolls, tourism, tobacco or alcohol.
 New Jersey also offers communities within specified ''urban enterprise zones'' the opportunity to cut the state's 7 percent sales tax in half to encourage commerce within their boundaries. 
 ''The experience of other states is not necessarily applicable to Connecticut,'' said State Senator William H. Nickerson, a Greenwich Republican. He warned that allowing a hodgepodge of local sales taxes in a small state like Connecticut would push consumers and developers to take their business down the road to whichever municipality didn't have an extra tax.
 The proposed tax on delivery services would raise an estimated $60 million. The tax would even cover the in-Connecticut portion of shipments that originate outside the state.
 But Bob Hruskocy, one owner of the Hartford-based Adcom Worldwide Inc., said higher fuel prices are already eating into profits for delivery and courier services.
 ''If this goes into effect, it would hurt our business even more,'' he said.
 Mayor Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford warned that local taxpayers can't continue to suffer under what he calls ''a broken property tax system.'' If state officials don't like the tax revenue sharing proposals, Mr. Malloy said, ''then they have an obligation to come up with something else.''
 Mayor John DeStefano Jr. of New Haven, now in his seventh term, said homeowners have had it with higher taxes. The environment for home ownership is ''the worst since the Great Depression,'' he said. Both mayors are Democrats.
 Another Democrat, the new mayor of Bridgeport, Bill Finch, has called for 90 city layoffs and a significant local tax increase.
 ''I'm literally swimming in red ink,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 20, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about some mayors asking for more revenue from the state misstated the position of Hartford's mayor, Eddie A. Perez, on a higher sales tax in his city. He does not support it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DRAWING A LINE: Bob Hruskocy says high fuel prices already hurt delivery services, which, like hotels, might have to share tax revenue with cities. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); SALES TAX (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (76%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); CORPORATE TAX (64%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (53%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (53%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (53%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (73%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



343 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: China's Loyal Youth

BYLINE: By MATTHEW FORNEY. 
Matthew Forney, a former Beijing bureau chief for Time, is writing a book about raising his family in China.

DATELINE: Beijing 

 BODY:
 MANY sympathetic Westerners view Chinese society along the lines of what they saw in the waning days of the Soviet Union: a repressive government backed by old hard-liners losing its grip to a new generation of well-educated, liberal-leaning sophisticates. As pleasant as this outlook may be, it's naive. Educated young Chinese, far from being embarrassed or upset by their government's human-rights record, rank among the most patriotic, establishment-supporting people you'll meet. 
 As is clear to anyone who lives here, most young ethnic Chinese strongly support their government's suppression of the recent Tibetan uprising. One Chinese friend who has a degree from a European university described the conflict to me as ''a clash between the commercial world and an old aboriginal society.'' She even praised her government for treating Tibetans better than New World settlers treated Native Americans. 
 It's a rare person in China who considers the desires of the Tibetans themselves. ''Young Chinese have no sympathy for Tibet,'' a Beijing human-rights lawyer named Teng Biao told me. Mr. Teng -- a Han Chinese who has offered to defend Tibetan monks caught up in police dragnets -- feels very alone these days. Most people in their 20s, he says, ''believe the Dalai Lama is trying to split China.''
 Educated young people are usually the best positioned in society to bridge cultures, so it's important to examine the thinking of those in China. The most striking thing is that, almost without exception, they feel rightfully proud of their country's accomplishments in the three decades since economic reforms began. And their pride and patriotism often find expression in an unquestioning support of their government, especially regarding Tibet.
 The most obvious explanation for this is the education system, which can accurately be described as indoctrination. Textbooks dwell on China's humiliations at the hands of foreign powers in the 19th century as if they took place yesterday, yet skim over the Cultural Revolution of the 1960s and '70s as if it were ancient history. Students learn the neat calculation that Chairman Mao's tyranny was ''30 percent wrong,'' then the subject is declared closed. The uprising in Tibet in the late 1950s, and the invasion that quashed it, are discussed just long enough to lay blame on the ''Dalai clique,'' a pejorative reference to the circle of advisers around Tibet's spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama.
 Then there's life experience -- or the lack of it -- that might otherwise help young Chinese to gain a perspective outside the government's viewpoint. Young urban Chinese study hard and that's pretty much it. Volunteer work, sports, church groups, debate teams, musical skills and other extracurricular activities don't factor into college admission, so few participate. And the government's control of society means there aren't many non-state-run groups to join anyway. Even the most basic American introduction to real life -- the summer job -- rarely exists for urban students in China. 
 Recent Chinese college graduates are an optimistic group. And why not? The economy has grown at a double-digit rate for as long as they can remember. Those who speak English are guaranteed good jobs. Their families own homes. They'll soon own one themselves, and probably a car too. A cellphone, an iPod, holidays -- no problem. Small wonder the Pew Research Center in Washington described the Chinese in 2005 as ''world leaders in optimism.''
 As for political repression, few young Chinese experience it. Most are too young to remember the Tiananmen massacre of 1989 and probably nobody has told them stories. China doesn't feel like a police state, and the people young Chinese read about who do suffer injustices tend to be poor -- those who lost homes to government-linked property developers without fair compensation or whose crops failed when state-supported factories polluted their fields. 
 Educated young Chinese are therefore the biggest beneficiaries of policies that have brought China more peace and prosperity than at any time in the past thousand years. They can't imagine why Tibetans would turn up their noses at rising incomes and the promise of a more prosperous future. The loss of a homeland just doesn't compute as a valid concern. 
 Of course, the nationalism of young Chinese may soften over time. As college graduates enter the work force and experience their country's corruption and inefficiency, they often grow more critical. It is received wisdom in China that people in their 40s are the most willing to challenge their government, and the Tibet crisis bears out that observation. Of the 29 ethnic-Chinese intellectuals who last month signed a widely publicized petition urging the government to show restraint in the crackdown, not one was under 30. 
 Barring major changes in China's education system or economy, Westerners are not going to find allies among the vast majority of Chinese on key issues like Tibet, Darfur and the environment for some time. If the debate over Tibet turns this summer's contests in Beijing into the Human Rights Games, as seems inevitable, Western ticket-holders expecting to find Chinese angry at their government will instead find Chinese angry at them.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY RONALD J. CALA II) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); HISTORY (69%); TEXTBOOKS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); RELIGION (60%); NATIVE AMERICANS (58%); VOLUNTEERS (50%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (91%) CHINA (97%); TIBET (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



344 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; TOURISM; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: A City's Plea to Keep Cruise Ships Coming

BYLINE: By GEORGIA KRAL

DATELINE: NEW LONDON 

 BODY:
 SOLANGE CHENEY is the owner of O! Brasil in downtown New London. Her shop is full of imported handmade goods, but the area doesn't normally see much foot traffic or strolling shoppers. Last year, though, seven cruise ships dropped anchor in New London harbor, and the streets of New London were filled.
 ''The town came alive,'' Ms. Cheney said. ''It was wonderful.'' 
 The first cruise ship came to New London in 2002, and since then merchants in the area have counted on that steady stream of customers. Last year more than 22,000 passengers and service members visited the city and surrounding attractions and historical sites. An estimated $1.3 million was spent in the region, according to New London's city manager, Martin Berliner. Eight more cruise ships are set to dock in the Whaling City this summer and fall. 
 But all that could end if a proposed change in United States customs law goes into effect.
 A proposed interpretation by the Customs and Border Protection bureau of the Passenger Vessel Services Act of 1886 would require foreign-flagged cruise ships to spend at least 48 hours in a foreign port. The act, which was intended to protect the American shipping industry, required foreign-flagged cruise ships sailing out of American ports to stop at a foreign port before returning to the United States, but it previously did not say how long that foreign port stop had to be.
 The only American-flagged ship operates in Hawaii, and the change in the law is intended to help its owners, because foreign-flagged ships there were making brief stops in Mexico, which they will now have to extend. But the proposed change would also affect ships making stops in New London and other New England ports, because all the cruise ships doing business here are foreign-flagged. 
 If the change goes through, the ships would be required to spend more time at Canadian ports, meaning they might forego their stops in New London.
 Gov. M. Jodi Rell and Representative Joe Courtney argue that the proposal, if passed, would have a devastating effect on the local and state economy in Connecticut. Governor Rell sent a personal letter in February expressing her concerns to Michael Chertoff, the homeland security secretary.
 ''This is an idea that needs to get tossed overboard,'' she said in a statement. 
 While the proposal may be useful in the Hawaiian market, it is troublesome for the New England market, said George A. Cassidy, executive director of the Connecticut Cruise Ship Task Force, a group that helped bring the cruise industry to New London and is now fighting to keep it there. 
 ''If the ships have to spend 48 hours in a Canadian port for every stop in a U.S. port, it would eliminate stops in Portland, Bar Harbor, New London,'' he said.
 New London's economy has benefited greatly. Local businesses had more customers not just from the ships, but also from surrounding communities when crowds traveled to New London to see the ships dock. 
 When the Explorer of the Seas came in September it created quite a stir, said Sara Munro, co-owner of Studio 33, a New London gallery and framing store. 
 ''The cruise ships create excitement, and people who live here rediscover their town,'' said Penny Parsekian, chief executive of New London Main Street, a downtown revitalization group.
 Customs and Border Protection entered the proposal into the Federal Register and has since received more than 1,000 comments on it. 
 ''It's overwhelming, the tremendous opposition,'' said Glen Vereb, a chief in the Office of International Trade at Customs and Border Patrol. 
 Mr. Vereb said the proposal must now be discussed at the Department of Homeland Security. 
 Laura Keehner, the department's press secretary, said she anticipates they will be moving forward in the next few months. 
 Holland America's Maasdam is set to dock in New London on May 8. In February, the Cruise Ship Task Force received a grant for $52,000 from the state Department of Economic and Community Development. 
 ''I'm an optimist,'' Mr. Cassidy said. ''I don't think it's really going to happen.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STOPOVER: New London is popular with cruise passengers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C. M. GLOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (91%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); GOVERNORS (72%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (83%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (58%); MICHAEL CHERTOFF (52%); JOE COURTNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (93%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



345 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Toll Road Offers New Jersey a Fiscal Test Drive

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: HAMMOND, Ind. 

 BODY:
The 157-mile-long toll road that slices through northern Indiana and connects Ohio to Illinois is as unremarkable as they come. On the western end, commuters speed past idled steel mills to get to and from Chicago, while in the east a stream of tractor-trailers plows past an equally undistinguished rural landscape. 
 But when a private Australian-Spanish consortium took control of the Indiana East-West Toll Road in 2006 after leasing the adjoining Chicago Skyway the previous year, the move touched off a fierce debate in Indianapolis that is reverberating in Trenton, Harrisburg and other statehouses across the country, where the struggle to finance soaring transportation costs goes on.
 ''I go to these governors' meetings and 49 of them are wringing their hands,'' Gov. Mitch Daniels of Indiana said in an interview. ''It's not very complicated. Most of them can see it and are astonished at how great a deal Indiana got.'' 
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine has been pushing to privatize New Jersey's toll roads, much as Governor Daniels did in Indiana when he leased the road for 75 years and received a $3.8 billion lump sum, which he earmarked for transportation projects. But events and public opinion have conspired against Mr. Corzine. 
 Not long after the Indiana deal, he began raising the possibility of selling or leasing the state's toll roads, but opposition had already started building, not only among voters, who were surprisingly sentimental about dealing away the New Jersey Turnpike and the Garden State Parkway, but among state legislators as well. 
 Not long afterward, Mr. Corzine was involved in an automobile crash that almost cost him his life and took much of the steam out of many initiatives he had been pursuing. 
 By the time Mr. Corzine unveiled his plan in January, which also included cutting spending and limiting the amount of new bonds, opponents in New Jersey eagerly pointed to Chicago and Indiana to show what could go wrong with privatizing public assets. Wary of private operators, they contended that Indiana sold too low, and that tolls there would eventually rise too high. They also questioned whether Mr. Corzine would use the windfall wisely.
 Mr. Corzine tried to allay those fears by proposing that the turnpike and the parkway be leased to a public corporation under state oversight. But his opponents focused less on who would operate the road and more on the toll increases -- of as much as 800 percent by 2022 -- that were critical to his plan. The plan has gathered little support from state lawmakers despite Mr. Corzine's original goal of winning passage by the end of March. 
 Others critics were alarmed that some of the $38 billion in bonds Mr. Corzine hoped to issue would be used for projects unrelated to transportation.
 ''Early on, there was excitement about the big checks that came in,'' Jonathan R. Peters, a finance professor at the City University of New York and an expert on toll roads, said of the arrangements in Indiana and Chicago. ''But now academics and departments of transportation are starting to see that you can give away too much.''
 In the aftermath of the agreements in Chicago and Indiana, lawmakers in California, Texas and other states have struggled to muster support for their own lease deals. In Pennsylvania, Gov. Edward G. Rendell's plan to lease the state's turnpike has been delayed by a counterproposal to collect tolls on Interstate 80. As these other states try to devise a plan acceptable to their residents, drivers who use the Chicago Skyway and Indiana East-West Toll Road seem to be adjusting to the new operators from Macquarie-Cintra, the Australian-Spanish consortium.
 But Mr. Peters and other specialists who study toll road deals cautioned that the lease in Indiana was structured so that tolls would remain relatively stable for the first decade, then could rise quickly for the remainder of the lease -- after many of the politicians who signed the original lease have left office. That may explain why drivers on the Skyway and Toll Road, while still suspicious of privatization, are largely pleased with conditions on the roads.
 They say they like the additional tollbooths and the introduction of electronic tolls. And while truckers and those using cash saw tolls rise this month in Indiana, drivers of passenger cars with E-ZPass or the local alternatives, known as iPass and iZoom, are still paying tolls that have not been raised in more than two decades.
 ''The positive thing is they put in iZoom and the roads are well maintained,'' said Roy Platz, 60, of Naperville, Ill., who for years has used the Skyway and Toll Road to get to his job at a steel company in East Chicago, Ind.
 ''I don't care who they sell it to,'' Mr. Platz said between bites of a double cheeseburger at a McDonald's near the Skyway. ''If the Spanish want to give us $4 billion, fine. But government being government, the money could be frittered away.''
 On the contrary, Governor Daniels, a former budget director under President Bush, said Indiana had been prudent with its money -- which has all been dedicated to infrastructure improvements. 
 In addition, Indiana earned $287 million in interest from the $3.8 billion the state received last year. Mr. Daniels has also distributed $150 million in highway funds to his state's 92 counties since the lease began.
 On top of that, he said that, to the best of his knowledge, Indiana is the only state with a fully financed 10-year transportation plan.
 ''This isn't dogma,'' he said, ''this is solving a problem.'' 
 Nonetheless, Mr. Daniels, who is running for a second term this year, has taken a lot of heat from opponents in Indiana, who have insisted that he back away from proposals to privatize other highways. Critics like Roger Skurski, a retired professor of economics at the University of Notre Dame, in South Bend, contend that if ''reasonable changes'' had been made in the way tolls were collected, the state could have made more money by not leasing the toll road.
 ''It didn't appear they were making the case that an outside company could do a better job,'' Mr. Skurski said. ''They were assuming it.''
 ''The selling point for the governor,'' he added, ''was that he could get the money up front.''
 But Mr. Daniels said the changes Mr. Skurski was referring to would never have been made because local politicians always balked at raising tolls.
 The new operators have been quick to make changes to boost efficiency. They bought coin and bill counting machines so that toll collectors no longer had to spend 45 minutes a day stuffing hundreds of dollars in nickels, dimes and quarters into rolls. Freed from rigid government contracts, the consortium has negotiated lower prices for new snowplows and roadway de-icing liquid. In addition, there is a new incentive program in place that rewards employees with an extra month's pay for good customer relations, attendance and initiative. And televisions have been removed from the tollbooths to force collectors to focus on their jobs.
 ''People were upset about the TVs, but patrons need your full attention,'' said Linda Wilson, the supervisor of the WestPoint toll plaza here.
 For those who regularly use the Skyway and Toll Road, the improvements have helped soften their stance on privatization -- as long as tolls do not rise too fast.
 ''I thought it was crazy to sell the road to someone outside the U.S.,'' said Chad Deanecelli, 28, a cook at a rest stop in Portage, Ind., who drives 40 miles to Chicago twice a week to visit his grandmother. ''It's pretty expensive, about a$12 round trip. But if the money is used for transportation, it's good.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on April 13 with an article about lessons that the privatization of the Indiana East-West Toll Road might hold for New Jersey -- whose governor, Jon S. Corzine, wants to lease his state's toll roads -- misidentified the toll plaza shown. It was the eastern entrance to the Chicago Skyway, not the western end of the Indiana toll road.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MAKING CHANGE: The western end of the Indiana East-West Toll Road, which has been leased by the state to a private consortium. Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey has suggested a similar arrangement for the turnpike and the Garden State Parkway, but has encountered broad opposition.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 29)
Bernie Dunn, a trucker from New York, said he would consider not taking the Indiana Toll Road after a toll increase on April 1.
 Edith Stephens, left, and Matosha Carter work at WestPoint plaza on the Toll Road. Changes for efficiency have been made.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 32) MAP Map details area of Indiana Toll Road. (pg. 32) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); BOND ISSUES (67%); BONDS (67%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (89%); MITCH DANIELS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



346 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1758 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: April 13, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 CHINA'S PRESIDENT DEFENDS 
 Crackdown in Tibet
 President Hu Jintao of China, in his first public comments about recent unrest in Tibet, echoed the official line in laying blame on the Dalai Lama and defending his country's crackdown. ''It is a problem either to safeguard national unification or to split the motherland,'' he said. PAGE 10
 ADVISING ZIMBABWE
 After a marathon session to address Zimbabwe's political impasse, South African leaders told the government of the autocratic Robert Mugabe that it must permit representatives of the opposition to be present when vote tabulations are verified. 
 PAGE 14
 HAITI CUTS RICE PRICES
 President Rene Preval of Haiti, seeking to stop violent protests over food costs, announced an emergency plan to lower the price of rice. The cut will be subsidized by the private sector and international donors, he said. PAGE 14 
 NATIONAL
 A BATTLE IN THE WEST
 Over Wolf Protections
 A coalition of environmental groups says it will to go federal court on April 28 to challenge the decision to lift protections on wolves. Until then, the court of public opinion is in session, with arguments being presented on both sides for how the new system of state management is working. PAGE 26
 AMONG THE UNEMPLOYED
 He once ran arguably the most prestigious law firm in the country -- if you can consider the Justice Department a law firm. But since leaving rather involuntarily last year, Alberto R. Gonzales has been unable to find acceptable new employment, Washington lawyers and his associates say. PAGE 18
 ENDOWMENTS WITH STRINGS
 A $2 million Princeton received for Hellenic studies nearly three decades ago is now worth $33 million. Which explains why the university now offers 13 Greek courses and owns a collection of 800 rare coins from medieval Greece. As the nation's wealthiest colleges report on their finances to Congress, new attention is being paid to the restrictions imposed by donors. PAGE 18 
 NEW YORK REPORT
 AN INSIDER WORKS
 To Bolster Public Housing
 As chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, Tino Hernandez has overseen reduced spending, higher rents and increased fees tenants pay for some services. But he has still been praised by housing advocates and elected officials. PAGE 29
 A FISCAL TEST DRIVE
 The privatization of a toll road that slices through northern Indiana could be instructive for New Jersey, where Gov. Jon S. Corzine has considered privatizing New Jersey's toll roads. Indiana got a $3.8 billion lump sum payment for a 75-year lease, but opponents of the approach say it sold too low. PAGE 29 
 HOLD THE GEFILTE FISH
 Kosher foods have become a steady growth area in sales and in the product line, Peter Applebome writes in Our Towns. And, he adds, why not? ''If Americans increasingly want variety in food, why not more matzo ball soup and that Concord grape matzo (if not quite the gefilte fish) along with the Thai peanut sauce and Cajun wings.'' PAGE 29
 SPORTS
 PICKING UP THE GAME
 At His Mother's Knee
 Back in the 1980s, the Allen Temple Baptist Church women's fast-pitch softball team had a flashy middle infielder, Gigi Rollins, known as much for her flair as for her game. She's retired now, but she did leave baseball a legacy. Plays for the Phillies. Has a little bit of flair himself. PAGE 2
 THEY CALL HIM PROFESSOR
 Charley Casserly spent more than 30 years in football, coaching and scouting and eventually running two N.F.L. teams. But he started as a teacher, and now he's back at it, at George Mason University. PAGE 6
 OBITUARIES
 BARRY H. GOTTEHRER, 73
 As a young journalist, he contributed to an award-winning newspaper series, ''City in Crisis,'' that helped elect John V. Lindsay mayor of New York in 1965. He then joined the Lindsay administration to help defuse subsequent crises in the city. PAGE 26
 JOHN E. HERLITZ, 65
 An automobile designer, he made his reputation with the 1970 Plymouth Barracuda, which brought a touch of class to the ''pony car'' segment, a genre of sporty compact cars started with the Ford Mustang, with long hoods and short rear decks. PAGE 26
 ARTS & LEISURE
 New York Dancers
 After a Critic's Heart
 Some are part of the city's rich dance history; some are juniors making their ways through the ranks and repertories of New York companies; some are regular visitors from abroad. Alastair Macaulay highlights a year's worth of the city's best dancers. PAGE 1 
 PORTISHEAD FADES BACK IN
 It was a taste of the rock 'n' roll life that made Portishead disappear for a decade. So it's no wonder the new objective of the band, which has rematerialized with a new album and a European tour, is to be ''the opposite of rock 'n' roll.'' PAGE 1 
 Faith Prince's Return 1 
 Rhett and Scarlet Sing 10 SUNDAY BUSINESS
 INVESTORS ARE FINDING
 A Long, Cashless Siege
 Brokers billed the auction-rate securities as no less safe than the money market or certificates of deposit, and some people put much of their life savings in. But many investors are finding that they weren't so safe after all, now that the cash-out window has slammed shut. PAGE 1
 PIZZAS FEEL THE HEAT
 Dairy and wheat prices have skyrocketed in the past year. One result is that it's a bad time to be in a business in which two of the main ingredients are cheese and dough. Sure enough, pizza makers are having a tough time competing with the burger people. PAGE 6
 MISSIONS OVER PROFITS
 A new style of ''hybrid'' technology organization is trying to define a path between the nonprofit world and traditional commercial ventures. These entities pursue social missions instead of profits, but they generate sustainable revenue and do not rely on philanthropy. PAGE 4
 BOOK REVIEW
 ESTABLISHING THE FAITH
 Of America's Founders
 Proponents on whichever side of church-state issues seem to claim as provenance the beliefs of the nation's founders, and vehement they can certainly be in their assertions. But in ''Founding Faith,'' Steven Waldman concludes that the faith was neither Christianity nor secularism. PAGE 1
 THE MAGAZINE
 CABLE PRINCE AT ODDS
 With TV's Age of Irony
 Chris Matthews is one of the most recognizable political personalities on the air. But his whip-tongued, name-dropping, self-promoting bombast is radically at odds with the wry, antipolitical style fashioned by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert and preferred by younger viewers. Could this be his last election in the spotlight? PAGE 42 
 The New Kabbalah 50 
 T STYLE MAGAZINE
 THE AMERICANIZATION
 Of Emily Blunt
 She won her Yankee bona fides for ''The Devil Wears Prada.'' Since then, she has been playing on both sides of the pond, most recently as Queen Victoria. Emily Blunt on wearing a corset, nude scenes with Tom Hanks and why all British actors want to conquer America. PAGE 76 
 TRAVEL
 IN THE NEW MUNICH,
 The Birth of Cool
 Quaint, grandfatherly Munich, long considered about as cool as polka music on an eight-track cassette, is Germany's hot spot of the moment. ''Because it's so conservative, you can do what you want,'' says one British-born resident. ''You don't have to be cool and hip in a certain way.'' PAGE 1 
 AN OXFORD PUB CRAWL
 The Bear. The Mitre. The White Hart. The Kings Arms. The Wheatsheaf. Turf Tavern. The Rose and Crown. The Eagle and Child. And let's not forget the Lamb and Flag, where Graham Greene liked to drink. Oxford's pubs date back to the 1200s, and many of them echo the Middle Ages. The best are still filled not only with the scent of yeast and hops, but also with banter and wit. PAGE 3 
 Shopping in Mexico 7 
 STYLES
 LONDON TURNS EYES
 To Former Colonies
 The presidential election has drawn attention around the world, and not surprisingly so, considering that the stakes might include war and peace. But perhaps no other foreign locale has been so fascinated as London. ''Most of London's smart set already consider themselves Americans,'' one writer explained. PAGE 17
 STRAIGHT APPEAL
 Jackie Warner, a fitness trainer featured in the Bravo reality series ''Work Out,'' is a lesbian who has developed a devoted following among straight women. An obsessed following, some suggest. E-mail tends to run along the lines of: ''I am married. I have never looked at another woman. I have a huge crush on Jackie.'' PAGE 1
 In Bed With 'Runway' 2
 The Sex Chair 6
 AUTOMOBILES
 YEARS OF RECALLS FAIL
 To Solve Switch Problem
 Six recalls covering 10 million Ford, Lincoln and Mercury vehicles have failed to correct problems with cruise-control switches blamed for almost 1,500 fires. So the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration urged owners whose vehicles had not been fixed to have the switches disconnected immediately. PAGE 1
 WEEK IN REVIEW
 AN UNEASY HONOR 
 For Rock's Trickster
 The Pulitzer board gave Bob Dylan a special citation the other day for his ''profound impact on popular music and American culture'' and ''lyrical compositions of extraordinary poetic power.'' Critics of the decision don't question those descriptions, but some do wonder whether the prize quite fits. PAGE 3
 EDITORIAL: 
 All the Time He Needs
 President Bush told his Iraq war commander, Gen. David Petraeus, that ''he'll have all the time he needs.'' We know what that means. It means that the general, like the Iraqi government, should feel no pressure to figure a way out of this disastrous war. It means, as we've always suspected, that Mr. Bush's only real strategy for Iraq has been to hand the mess off to his successor. Mr. Bush gave himself all the time he needs to walk away from one of the biggest strategic failures in American history. PAGE 13
 EDITORIAL:
 The Wait for Justice
 In 1662, the colonists of Hartford hanged Mary Sanford for witchcraft. Centuries later, Sanford's descendants have petitioned the State Legislature to exonerate their distant grandmother and 10 others executed for witchcraft. The fight has taught them something, perhaps more than they wanted to know, about the mob mentality. PAGE 13
 OP-ED: 
 Maureen Dowd
 The political world is consumed with psychoanalyzing Bill Clinton. Again. Is he standing by his woman? Or stomping on his woman? Is he grappling with mortality and immortality, or does he just want to run against Obama himself? PAGE 15
 OP-ED: 
 Nicholas D. Kristof
 Climate change may lead to far worse things than damaged beach houses. For one, it could bring more witch-killings. PAGE 14
 OP-ED: 
 Frank Rich
 No war can be fought indefinitely if the public has irrevocably turned against it. PAGE 14

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (88%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); RICE MARKETS (74%); FOOD PRICES (74%); RIOTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); CLASSICS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (65%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (65%); COINS & COINAGE (63%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (63%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (60%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (90%); DALAI LAMA (73%); ALBERTO GONZALES (55%); JON CORZINE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (94%); ZIMBABWE (94%); TIBET (93%); HAITI (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GREECE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



347 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET MAKER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: But What of the Small Investor?

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
FOR the first time since the bursting of the tech bubble and the ensuing collapse of giants like Enron and WorldCom, both Washington and Wall Street are talking about regulation again. 
 But last month's proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. has focused mostly on big-picture dangers -- the kind that brought down Bear Stearns and threatened to put the entire financial system at risk.
 Lost amid all the talk of big changes is a focus on the individual investor, says Mary L. Schapiro, chief executive of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Better known as Finra, Ms. Schapiro's group is the industry's independent regulatory organization. The group oversees banks and brokerage firms in their dealings with individual investors and enforces rules governing its 5,000 members. 
 Ms. Schapiro, 52, has worked for just about every agency having anything to do with regulation over the last 20 years. She was a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission from 1988 to 1994. Later, she headed the Commodity Futures Trading Commission under President Bill Clinton and served on the President's Working Group on Financial Markets. She joined the National Association of Securities Dealers as head of regulation in 1996 and became head of Finra last year. 
 While she applauds the Treasury proposal's goal of getting a better fix on threats to the overall system, Ms. Schapiro says: ''One of the things that has been lost is the retail investor.''
 Although Mr. Paulson did cite consumer protection as an important element in his blueprint, he emphasized market discipline, rather than regulation, as the best way to guarantee the stability of the system. And most of his changes would affect big institutions, not individual borrowers or consumers.
 Ms. Schapiro says that some obvious fixes could be made, especially in making sure consumers don't fall between the cracks in the current system.
 For one thing, changes are needed to help people who buy annuities for retirement, because they might end up with a product regulated by the S.E.C., Finra, state insurance regulators ''or some combination thereof,'' she says.
 ''We shouldn't leave it to the investor to figure it out.'' she adds. ''We've left them in this never-never land of dramatically different protections, and that's one of the real shortcomings of the regulatory system.''
 Another example of a crazy-quilt approach is the mortgage market -- the very sector where an absence of regulation and an excess of greed instigated the current crisis. To address this, Ms. Schapiro says, mortgage brokers should be added to the groups that are more closely regulated, like stockbrokers and sellers of retirement products like mutual funds, life insurance policies and annuities. 
 ''The amount of regulation required to offer someone a $500,000 mortgage,'' she says, ''pales in comparison to what's needed to sell a $100 mutual fund.''
 To address the situation, whether the product is a mutual fund or a mortgage, four important safeguards should be in place, she says. First, ''the person who sells the product should be tested, qualified and licensed,'' she says. ''Second, sales materials and advertising should not be misleading. Third, products can only be sold to a suitable investor in terms of objectives and risk tolerance. Fourth, disclosures should be complete and cover everything from risk to cost.''
 While Ms. Schapiro's points may sound obvious, none of these safeguards were in effect in the years leading up to the mortgage mess. Disclosure, in particular, was lacking, with many subprime borrowers having only the faintest understanding of the monthly payments they owed or the eventual interest rate their loans would carry. Mortgage brokers are regulated only at the state level, she says, and rules differ. ''I don't think anybody would claim it's a robust regulatory regime,'' she notes dryly. 
 The Treasury proposal calls for a new federal agency to create standards for mortgage loans, with states given the power to enforce those standards. ''It's worthy of exploration,'' she says. ''But will there be resources at the state level to enforce this approach?''
 ''It's not that we should be ignoring the bigger issues, and, yes, we have to deal with systemic risk,'' she adds. ''But if we tinker with the regulatory regime, let's do it in such a way that protects individual investors. They're no less important than financial institutions.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mary Schapiro says investors are caught in a ''never-never land.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD SHEINWALD/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); INSURANCE (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); FUTURES (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (74%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); LIFE INSURANCE (65%); INSURANCE POLICIES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (91%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (90%); HENRY PAULSON (57%); BILL CLINTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



348 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1900 words

HEADLINE: SECRET IRAQI DEAL SHOWS PROBLEMS IN ARMS ORDERS

BYLINE: By SOLOMON MOORE

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
An $833 million Iraqi arms deal secretly negotiated with Serbia has underscored Iraq's continuing problems equipping its armed forces, a process that has long been plagued by corruption and inefficiency. 
 The deal was struck in September without competitive bidding and it sidestepped anticorruption safeguards, including the approval of senior uniformed Iraqi Army officers and an Iraqi contract approval committee. Instead, it was negotiated by a delegation of 22 high-ranking Iraqi officials, without the knowledge of American commanders or many senior Iraqi leaders. 
 The deal drew enough criticism that Iraqi officials later limited the purchase to $236 million. And much of that equipment, American commanders said, turned out to be either shoddy or inappropriate for the military's mission. 
 An anatomy of the purchase highlights how the Iraqi Army's administrative abilities -- already hampered by sectarian rifts and corruption -- are woefully underdeveloped, hindering it in procuring weapons and other essentials in a systematic way. It also shows how an American procurement process set up to help foreign countries navigate the complexity of buying weapons was too slow and unwieldy for wartime needs like Iraq's, prompting the Iraqis to strike out on their own. 
 Such weaknesses mean that five years after the American invasion, the 170,000-strong Iraqi military remains under-equipped, spottily supplied and largely reliant on the United States for such basics as communications equipment, weapons and ammunition, raising fresh questions about the Iraqi military's ability to stand on its own. 
 Iraq's defense minister, Abdul Qadir, defended the arms deal, saying he had followed proper contracting protocols and had informed Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki every step of the way.
 Nonetheless, American commanders and some Iraqi officials criticized the Serbian arms purchase. Closer monitoring of weapons deals has been a delicate subject since a series of tainted arms purchases totaling $1.3 billion in Iraqi government funds in 2004 and 2005. Lacking electronic banking systems at the time, Iraqi officials paid for second-rate or nonexistent weapons and equipment in cash, using middlemen to ferry duffle bags stuffed with bricks of $100 bills.
 That episode brought down the previous defense minister, Hazam Shalan, now a fugitive, and tarnished the reputation of the interim prime minister, Iyad Allawi. American and Iraqi officials said that the loss of so much money and time caused critical delays in the development of the Iraqi Army.
 Those with knowledge of the Serbian arms deal said they knew of no specific crimes, but warned that with so little transparency and such poor oversight, problems were likely to emerge, as they did with the 2004 deal.
 The Serbian deal called for the purchase of a large number of helicopters, planes, armored personnel carriers, mortar systems, machine guns, body armor, military uniforms and other equipment. It was largely negotiated by Mr. Qadir and the planning minister, Ali Glahil Baban. In response to the criticism, Mr. Qadir said he ''froze'' purchases of the personnel carriers and some aircraft, reducing the final contract price to $236 million. The deal was signed in March, American military officials said.
 ''We just want to have a mix of procedures for contracts so we can expedite our acquisition,'' Mr. Qadir said, adding that ''American timelines for delivery were too far away.''
 Despite the criticism, some American advisers said the deal was an essential part of the Iraqi military's learning curve and a test of the American military's capacity to balance guidance and restraint. 
 ''We can be very overbearing as a nation, and part of this task is a feel for this task,'' said Lt. Gen. James M. Dubik, the commander of the Multinational Security Transition Command and the head of America's security advisory mission in Iraq. ''How do I impose myself enough to keep things going but back off enough to let development occur? There is an art to this.''
 Diverging Accounts
 American military officials and the Iraqi authorities alike point to the Pentagon's Foreign Military Sales program as the reason the Serbian arms deal was pursued in the first place. After that, however, their versions of events diverge sharply.
 Under the sales program, used by more than 100 allied nations, Pentagon officials serve as intermediaries for government-to-government defense procurements, handling administrative issues, logistics, delivery, maintenance and training. Clients sometimes get the benefit of American economies of scale, American expertise regarding weapons systems and quality control and built-in transparency and corruption safeguards. Defense contractors also benefit to some extent, because the program often channels clients to American companies that produce arms and other equipment.
 American officials hoped the program would help Iraq spend more of its own money on defense. Last year, for the first time, Iraqi military expenditures of $7.5 billion surpassed the $5.5 billion in American financing for Iraq's military. But the program is intended for peacetime, and with protocols spanning hundreds of pages, it is built more for transparency and standardization than for speed.
 Beginning in late 2006, the Iraqi government deposited $2.6 billion in an account for Foreign Military Sales procurements. But by September 2007, less than $200 million worth of badly needed equipment had been delivered, and many of those items were stockpiled because of poor distribution and accountability systems. And that, the officials pointed out, was during one of the most violent periods on record. 
 ''The problem with F.M.S. is that it didn't deliver on time,'' a senior Iraqi official said, ''and this was used by some in government to say, 'Look, this is deliberate. The U.S. is trying to keep us unarmed so that we'll always be in need of the Americans.' '' 
 General Dubik, in an interview in his office in the Green Zone, acknowledged, ''There was an issue of credibility in our system.''
 But there were problems on the Iraqi side as well, American military officers said. A bureaucracy used to functioning under a command economy during the reign of Saddam Hussein had little use for formal procurement protocols and was unaccustomed to such basic practices as writing detailed specifications.
 ''I mean literally, the Iraqis had some letters of request that said, 'We want to buy 1,000 trucks,' '' said Joe Benkert, an assistant defense secretary for global affairs who manages the Foreign Military Sales program.
 Some critics, all of them high-ranking Iraqi and American military officials, made the more serious charge that senior Iraqi officials intentionally obstructed American-sponsored procurements because they feared the sales program would prevent them from siphoning off a share of the money. But they offered no independent corroboration. 
 ''The defense minister is playing games,'' said an official with Iraq's Defense Ministry who spoke out because of his concern about corruption, but also spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals. ''He is stopping F.M.S.,'' the official said. ''Contracts just sat on his desk waiting for approval for six or seven months sometimes.'' 
 American procurement experts were so mystified by some of the delays that they set up a new office to track procurements and found that many of the delays led straight back to Mr. Qadir's desk. Mr. Qadir denied delaying contracts or making money from them.
 After months of delays and an overhaul of the Pentagon procurement bureaucracy, the program increased the value of its delivered equipment to $1 billion by this February. But in the absence of a comprehensive distribution and inventory system in Iraq, much of that equipment remains locked in Iraqi storehouses, American officials said.
 Mr. Qadir, who made headlines during a January visit to the United States, when he said Iraq could not take full military responsibility for itself until 2018, blamed the slowness of the Foreign Military Sales program for his decision to deal directly with Serbia. ''Foreign Military Sales is a system built to provide weapons systems to a national force in a peaceful time,'' he said.
 A Deal in the Dark
 In an interview in February in his office, Mr. Qadir, a Sunni Arab native of Ramadi, confirmed that the original Serbian deal ''exceeded $800 million.''
 ''The thing is, we did not limit ourselves to any fixed number or fixed price,'' he said.
 But critics say the deal circumvented fragile anticorruption safeguards. Indeed, at Mr. Qadir's urging Mr. Maliki abolished the national contracts committee, a mandatory review agency for all government purchases of more than $50 million.
 Mr. Maliki also overrode the nation's Supreme Economic Committee after it expressed concerns that the Serbian deal lacked guarantees of service from the Serbian government.
 The deal was also supported by Iraq's Office of the Commander in Chief, a shadowy group of Shiite advisers to Mr. Maliki that American officials accused last year of leading a purge of Sunni Iraqi Army commanders who had cracked down on Shiite militia leaders.
 The same group, which rejected suggestions that it bring in Western advisers, has marginalized senior uniformed officers charged with procurement decisions and kept American officials in the dark about Iraqi financing of arms deals, according to high-ranking American officials familiar with its workings. 
 ''It struck me as bizarre,'' said a Western official with knowledge of the security ministries, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he did not want to be seen as criticizing people he was advising. ''You can only explain it in two ways: a desire to avoid oversight and a desire to offer opportunities for graft and corruption.''
 A high-ranking Iraqi government official who spoke on condition of anonymity, for fear of reprisals against him and others in his office, said, ''We have no confidence in the Iraqi contracting process.'' 
 ''I heard about it out of the blue, that the minister of defense took a delegation to Serbia and came back and said that he had signed deals with the Serbian prime minister,'' the official said. ''Why Serbia? Why not Ukraine? Why not Russia? We just don't know.''
 American military officials did persuade Mr. Qadir to cancel the $200 million purchase of 30 to 40 French-made Puma helicopters, arguing that they were unsuited to Iraq's harsh climate. The minister also decided against buying armored personnel carriers and Gazelle helicopters.
 American and Iraqi military officers also questioned the wisdom of purchasing tens of millions of dollars of nonmilitary crowd control gear -- batons, stun guns and plexiglass shields -- usually used by police forces, and $76 million worth of mortar systems, which are too imprecise to use against guerrillas. The minister said he still intended to buy the riot control equipment, to handle crowds of Shiite pilgrims, and mortar systems, because the insurgents have them. 
 Critics of the deal also complained that the arms agreement thwarted the standardization of the Iraqi Army's hodgepodge of war materiel, which includes firearms from the United States, China, the Balkans, Pakistan and Russia; 150 types of land vehicles; and a United Nations panoply of aircraft.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, center, with Defense Minister Abdul Qadir in February. Mr. Qadir has drawn criticism for his role in engineering an $833 million deal to buy military equipment from Serbia, a deal that was later scaled back. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THAIER AL-SUDANI/REUTERS)
 Lt. Gen. James M. Dubik, center, with Iraqi officers in March. He is the head of America's security advisory mission in Iraq. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WATHIQ KHUZAIE/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARMS TRADE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (78%); APPROVALS (77%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); HELICOPTERS (50%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (50%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SERBIA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



349 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; CONSUMED; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: The Art of Politics

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
Obama art
 Whether or not Barack Obama would make a good president, it's clear that he makes an excellent muse. It's hard to think of a political candidate in recent memory who has, in real time, inspired so much creativity, exercised free of charge and for the campaign's benefit. Perhaps this suggests something about Obama -- or maybe it suggests something about his supporters.
 The examples are many. One of the most prominent is the limited-edition print created by the Los Angeles artist Shepard Fairey in January. Fairey is best known as the creator of the ''Obey Giant'' imagery that, beginning in 1989, spread on city streets around the world by way of posters, stickers and stencils. (Disclosure: I contributed an essay to Fairey's 2006 book, ''Obey: Supply & Demand,'' an extensive survey of that project and of his career so far.) Fairey made a brief statement when he unveiled the portrait, noting his ''great conviction that Barack Obama should be the next President.'' Poster sales, he added, would underwrite ''a large statewide poster campaign.'' 
 In addition to popping up on many streets, the image later made its way onto a T-shirt, created in collaboration with the San Francisco street-wear brand Upper Playground -- and apparently onto the radar of the Obama campaign. The candidate himself sent a thank-you note, and his campaign had Fairey create a new poster that became the inaugural offering in an ''Artists for Obama'' section of the barackobama.com online store. Fairey told Creativity Online that while he has been politically active, there's something new in the enthusiasm he now professes to feel. ''I just thought it was time to stick my neck out,'' he said. A variety of other artists apparently feel something similar. A California art duo known as the Date Farmers created an Obama screen print in an edition of 300; add the pro-Obama prints by Sam Flores, MAC and Munk One, and you're on your way to a hipster gallery show.
 Meanwhile, will.i.am of the Black Eyed Peas created a video that remixed an Obama speech into a song, with a variety of music-celebrity contributors joining in on the candidate's oft-cited slogan, ''Yes, we can.'' It's had more than 6.5 million YouTube views and inspired spinoffs, including a ''No, you can't'' video by the satirical Billionaires for Bush. As Advertising Age has noted, a variety of ad-world ''creatives'' (it's actually a job title in that industry) have also cooked up freelance online videos and the like, free. The grass-roots end of the creativity spectrum has included ObamaOfDreams.com, which offered T-shirts on which baseball team logos were tweaked to read ''Obama'' (until Major League Baseball intervened), and a D.I.Y. ''O'bama'' St. Patrick's Day dress recently featured on Craftzine.com. 
 Creative types have backed politicians before, and Obama does not have a monopoly on such expression even in the Democratic primary. (There's Jack Nicholson's somewhat strange pro-Clinton clip made up of spliced-together movie performances, for instance.) But the Obama endorsements seem not simply expressions of support, but of something more like fandom. Dan Ariely, a behavioral-economics professor at M.I.T. and author of the recent book ''Predictably Irrational,'' has gone so far as to compare it to romance, citing research about the early stages of dating as a comparison point: ''When we get partial information about others we tend to fill in the gaps optimistically; we assume that they are wonderful, just like us and that they share our exact values and preferences.'' He figures part of Obama's charm may be the way fans are filling in the blanks.
 This bring us to perhaps the most delightful piece of Obama-inspired creativity, the Web site barackobamaisyournewbicycle.com. This is nothing but a series of statements about the wonderful things Obama has done for ''you.'' He left a comment on your blog, picked you up at the airport, built you a robot, thinks you are cute and, sweetly: ''Barack Obama has a balloon for you.'' The site has been read as support -- and as a satire of crush-blind Obama supporters. Of course this ambiguity is what makes it so pleasing. Because perfect little things like this are invariably converted into profitable objects, a deal has been struck to release an illustrated book based on the site. The stated goal to get it into stores before the Democratic convention reflects a reality lurking behind the political optimism: all the creative expression in the world doesn't guarantee that we'll ever find out what sort of president Obama might be. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER ARKLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FILM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (63%); INTERNET VIDEO (63%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



350 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 8133 words

HEADLINE: Chris Matthews, Seriously. (O.K., Not That Seriously.)

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH. 
Mark Leibovich is a reporter in the Washington bureau of The Times. He last wrote for the magazine about Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.

 BODY:
Whenever Chris Matthews says something he likes, which happens a lot, he repeats it often and at volumes suggesting a speaker who feels insufficiently listened to at times. ''Tim Russert finally reeled the big marlin into the boat tonight,'' Matthews yelled -- nine times, on and off the air, after a Democratic debate that Russert moderated with Brian Williams in late February at Cleveland State University. Matthews believed that Russert (the fisherman) had finally succeeded in getting Hillary Clinton (the marlin) to admit that she was wrong to vote in favor of the Iraq war resolution in 2002. ''We've been trolling for that marlin for what, a year now?'' Matthews said to Russert.
 Comparing Hillary Rodham Clinton to a big flopping fish will do nothing to stop criticism -- from Clinton's presidential campaign, among others -- that Matthews and his network, MSNBC, have treated the former first lady unfairly. But this didn't keep Matthews from bludgeoning the marlin line to death in the postdebate ''spin room.'' ''Russert caught the marlin; he got the marlin,'' Matthews shouted to a school of downcast reporters who had been hanging on every canned word of Clinton's chief campaign strategist, Mark Penn. 
 The spin room is a modern political-media marvel whose full-on uselessness is perfectly conveyed by its name, but Matthews appeared in his element. He wore a dreamy smile, walking around, signing autographs. As he went, Matthews seemed compelled to give his ''take,'' which is how he describes his job each night at 5 and 7, Eastern time, on ''Hardball'' -- ''giving my take.''
 Someone from Matthews's staff mentioned that the office of Senator Larry Craig, the Idaho Republican who got in trouble for his ''wide stance'' in an airport men's room, had been looking for interns. ''Ha!'' Matthews exploded, a trademark outcry. ''Guess what, Mom and Dad, I just got an internship with that senator from Idaho, you know the one. 
 ''Ha!
 ''Did you get a load of Lou Rawls's wife?'' Matthews said as he left the spin room. Apparently the Rev. Jesse Jackson was introducing the widow of the R&B singer at the media center. ''She was an absolute knockout,'' Matthews declared. It's a common Matthews designation. The actress Kerry Washington was also a ''total knockout,'' according to Matthews, who by 1 a.m. had repaired to the bar of the Cleveland Ritz-Carlton. He was sipping a Diet Coke and holding court for a cluster of network and political types, as well as for a procession of random glad-handers that included, wouldn't you know it, Kerry Washington herself. Washington played Ray Charles's wife in the movie ''Ray'' and Kay Amin in the ''Last King of Scotland.'' She is a big Obama supporter and was in town for the debate; more to the point, she said she likes ''Hardball.'' Matthews grabbed her hand, and Phil Griffin, the head of MSNBC who was seated across the table, vowed to get her on the show.
 ''I know why he wants you on,'' Matthews said to Washington while looking at Griffin. At which point Matthews did something he rarely does. He paused. He seemed actually to be considering what he was about to say. He might even have been editing himself, which is anything but a natural act for him. He was grimacing. I imagined a little superego hamster racing against a speeding treadmill inside Matthews's skull, until the superego hamster was overrun and the pause ended.
 ''He wants you on because you're beautiful,'' Matthews said. ''And because you're black.'' He handed Washington a business card and told her to call anytime ''if you ever want to hang out with Chris Matthews.''
 Then, a young Irish-looking woman walked up shyly and asked if he was ''Mr. Matthews.'' ''Ah, an Irish girl has come to my aid,'' Matthews said, placing his hand gently on the woman's shoulder. She was in law school and said her name was Margaret Sweeney. ''I went out with a Sweeney once, a nurse,'' Matthews said, taking her hand. This Sweeney attends law school at Cleveland State, ''where Russert went,'' Matthews told her, before starting again on the marlin thing.
 The postdebate tableau at the Ritz was another media-political bazaar, minus the riffraff of the spin room. This is about as glitzy as you'll get on a snowy night in Cleveland at 1 a.m. The Ohio congresswoman, Stephanie Tubbs Jones, came over from the next table to visit with Matthews, along with the former Ohio congressman, Dennis Eckart, and a guy who told Matthews he ran for attorney general in Ohio and a bunch of suited money people and the actor Timothy Hutton and some fancy Hollywood director. ''This is all sort of like a big play world,'' Griffin, the MSNBC chief, said, surveying the room. ''You have all these politicians and media people and Hollywood celebrities in here. It sort of embarrasses me. It feels a little incestuous.''
 (A disclaimer that advances this notion of incestuousness: I have been a guest on ''Hardball'' on occasion, but probably not more than a half-dozen times over the years. The New York Times also has a partnership with NBC in which the news organizations coordinate some aspects of their political coverage, posting politics-related stories and videos on each other's Web sites. And Matthews and I have the same book agent, for what that's worth.)
 ''People are a little impressed with themselves,'' Griffin went on to say, continuing his commentary about the scene. ''It's a bit of an echo chamber.'' Matthews is central to that echo chamber -- at the Ritz, as in the 2008 presidential campaign. He is, in a sense, the carnival barker at the center of it, spewing tiny pellets of chewed nuts across the table while comparing Obama to Mozart and Clinton to Salieri. At one point, Matthews suddenly became hypnotized by a TV over the bar set to a rebroadcast of ''Hardball.'' ''Hey, there I am -- it's me,'' he said, staring at himself on the screen. ''It's me.'' 
 There is a level of ubiquity about Chris Matthews today that can be exhausting, occasionally edifying and, for better or worse, central to what has become a very loud national conversation about politics. His soothing-like-a-blender voice feels unnervingly constant in a presidential campaign that has drawn big interest, ratings and voter turnout. He gets in trouble sometimes and has to apologize -- as he did after suggesting that Hillary Clinton owed her election to the Senate to the fact that her husband ''messed around.'' He is also something of a YouTube sensation: see Chris getting challenged to a duel by the former Georgia governor, Zell Miller; describing the ''thrill going up my leg'' after an Obama speech; dancing with (and accidentally groping) Ellen DeGeneres on her show; shouting down the conservative commentator Michelle Malkin; ogling CNBC's Erin Burnett. And he has provided a running bounty of material for Media Matters for America, a liberal media watchdog, which has devoted an entire section of its Web site (''The Matthews Monitor'') to cataloging Matthews's alleged offenses, especially against Hillary Clinton and women generally.
 In addition to doing ''Hardball,'' Matthews is the host of a Sunday morning show on NBC, ''The Chris Matthews Show,'' has been a staple of the network's coverage of presidential debates and has helped moderate two of them. He is also a frequent guest on NBC and MSNBC news shows and an ongoing spoof target on ''Saturday Night Live.'' It can be difficult not to hear Darrell Hammond's long-running impression of Matthews when Matthews himself is speaking. Matthews, for his part, says he loves the Hammond impression and sometimes catches himself ''doing Hammond doing Matthews.'' If parody is an emblem of pop-culture status -- signifying a measure of permanence -- Matthews belongs on any Mount Rushmore of political screaming heads.
 Matthews is as pure a political being as there is on TV. He is the whip-tongued, name-dropping, self-promoting wise guy you often find in campaigns, and in the bigger offices on Capitol Hill or K Street. (''Rain Man,'' NBC's Brian Williams jokingly called Matthews, referring to his breadth of political knowledge.) He wrote speeches for Jimmy Carter, worked as a top advisor to Tip O'Neill, ran unsuccessfully for Congress himself in his native Philadelphia at 28. In an age of cynicism about politics, Matthews can be romantic about the craft, defensive about its practitioners and personally affronted when someone derides Washington or ''the game.'' He can also be unsparing in his criticism of those who run afoul of his ''take.'' ''I am not a cheerleader for politics per se,'' Matthews says. ''I am a cheerleader for the possibilities of politics.''
 This election season, MSNBC has placed great emphasis on politics, devoting 28 percent of its airtime to the subject last year (compared with 15 percent for Fox News and 12 percent for CNN, according to the Project for Excellence in Journalism). The thrilling 2008 presidential campaign has been a boon, and in the first quarter MSNBC's prime-time audience rose 63 percent over the previous year (compared with 12 percent for the Fox News Channel and 70 percent for CNN, though MSNBC still draws many fewer viewers overall). As Matthews is clearly a signature figure on the network, and one of the most recognizable political personalities on the air, this has been something of a heyday for him.
 Yet for as basic as he has become to the political and media furniture, Matthews is anything but secure. He is of the moment, but, at 62, also something of a throwback -- to an era of politics set in the ethnic Democratic wards of the '60s and the O'Neill-Reagan battles of the '80s. And he is a product of an aging era of cable news, the late-'90s, when ''Hardball'' started and Matthews made his name as a battering critic of Bill Clinton during the Monica saga.
 Cable political coverage has changed, however, and so has the sensibility that viewers -- particularly young ones -- expect from it. Matthews's bombast is radically at odds with the wry, antipolitical style fashioned by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert or the cutting and finely tuned cynicism of Matthews's MSNBC co-worker Keith Olbermann. These hosts betray none of the reverence for politics or the rituals of Washington that Matthews does. On the contrary, they appeal to the eye-rolling tendencies of a cooler, highly educated urban cohort of the electorate that mostly dismisses an exuberant political animal like Matthews as annoyingly antiquated, like the ranting uncle at the Thanksgiving table whom the kids have learned to tune out.
 Nothing illustrated Matthews's discordance with the new cable ethos better than an eviscerating interview he suffered through last fall at the hands of Stewart himself. Matthews went on the ''The Daily Show'' to promote his book ''Life's a Campaign: What Politics Has Taught Me About Friendship, Rivalry, Reputation and Success.'' The book essentially advertises itself as a guidebook for readers wishing to apply the lessons of winning politicians to succeeding in life. ''People don't mind being used; they mind being discarded'' is the title of one chapter. ''A self-hurt book'' and ''a recipe for sadness'' Stewart called it, and the interview was all squirms from there. ''This strikes me as artifice,'' Stewart said. ''If you live by this book, your life will be strategy, and if your life is strategy, you will be unhappy.''
 Matthews accused Stewart of ''trashing my book.''
 ''I'm not trashing your book,'' Stewart protested. ''I'm trashing your philosophy of life.''
 Matthews told me that the interview was a painful experience. Not only did Stewart humiliate him, but the interview exposed an essential truth that people by and large don't want to hear advice from politicians, a breed that, in many ways, has defined Matthews's value system. ''I think Stewart was right in that he caught the drift of antipolitics,'' Matthews said.
 So has Olbermann, the host of MSNBC's ''Countdown.'' While Matthews is clearly a stalwart on the MSNBC menu, he is hardly a flavor of the month, or the year. Olbermann is. ''Countdown,'' on at 8, is getting good ratings, usually second in its slot to ''The O'Reilly Factor'' on Fox News. Olbermann draws considerably more viewers than Matthews -- about one million a night, compared with 660,000 for the 7 p.m. broadcast of ''Hardball'' (which typically runs third in its time slots after Fox News and CNN but is up in the ratings this year). There is a view within the TV industry that MSNBC is positioning itself as the younger, edgier, left-tilting cable network, and no one there embodies this ideal better than Olbermann. NBC executives have been promoting him heavily, and three network officials asked me why I was writing about Matthews and not Olbermann.
 Part of this can be viewed purely through a bottom-line lens. Matthews's contract expires next year, and NBC officials clearly would like to renew it for considerably less than the $5 million a year he is making now. Whether it's a formal talking point or not, NBC officials seem bent on conveying the message that they could get the same ratings, or better ones, for considerably less money.
 But the broader issue involves whether Matthews is a man trapped in a tired caricature. And it touches on the future of his archetype in general -- in other words, whither the cable blowhard? The ''What happens to Chris'' question -- a hot topic at NBC these days -- infuses the Matthews story with a kind of ''lion in winter'' urgency, if not poignancy. It also goes to the core of how Matthews sees himself, how cable news is changing and how Americans perceive of and consume their politics.
 The morning after the Cleveland debate, Matthews was walking through the airport to catch his flight home to Washington. People kept squinting at him, double-taking, stepping in and out of his monologue.
 ''I like the fact that people don't think of me as famous, but that they know me,'' Matthews said. ''They come up to me and say, 'Chris, what do you think?' There's no aura. It's a different kind of celebrity. People assume they have a right to talk to me. They want to know my take.''
 A woman picked Matthews out of the security line and declared herself a fan. ''Don't tell me, you're a liberal NPR-listener type,'' Matthews said, reducing said fan to a psychographic niche (though warmly).
 She described herself as ''just an old lady going to Florida.''
 ''Who are you voting for?'' Matthews asked.
 ''Hillary,'' she said, adding in a whisper, ''but I don't want her to win.''
 ''Hey, what's your name,'' another person in line asked him.
 ''I'm Chris Matthews.''
 ''Oh, yes, we watch your show every night.''
 ''Thanks,'' Matthews said, wondering aloud to me whether it would be possible for someone to watch his show every night and not know his name. 
 The security agent working the metal detector told Matthews that he had seen him at this airport before, and Matthews volunteered that he was in Cleveland a few years ago to speak at the Case Western Reserve University graduation. ''But they didn't give me an honorary degree,'' Matthews said. ''Can you believe that? I spoke at the graduation and didn't get an honorary degree?'' He gets a lot of honorary degrees, by the way -- 19 if you're counting, and guess who is counting?
 As we approached the airport gate, Matthews mentioned that he and his wife, Kathleen, have been contemplating a trip to Damascus. It's something they have wanted to do for a long time. But he worries that he might make an inviting target for a kidnapper. ''I can imagine getting some big-name media figure would be a big propaganda catch for them,'' Matthews said. ''You can imagine what the neocons would say if I were kidnapped. They'd be like, 'See, Matthews, terrorism isn't so funny now, is it?' ''
 There is a level of solipsism about Matthews that is oddly endearing in its self-conscious extreme, even by the standards of television vanity.
 ''Did you see me on the 'Today' show?'' Matthews asked when I called him one afternoon in early March. ''I quoted F. Scott Fitzgerald. I think I'm the only guy around who quotes F. Scott Fitzgerald on the 'Today' show.''
 A few days later, Matthews greeted me with a report that he was up at 6 a.m. that day did ''Today''; did ''Morning Joe,'' MSNBC'S morning political program; taped the Sunday ''Chris Matthews Show''; then talked to a bunch of people in Pennsylvania, his home state, about the primary. He's big into the Pennsylvania primary, talks a lot to ''Eddie Rendell'' and urged me repeatedly to call the Pennsylvania governor's office and ''talk to Eddie Rendell about me.''
 ''By the way, have you figured me out yet?'' Matthews said at the end of another phone conversation the following day. ''You gotta understand, it's all complicated. It's not like Tim.''
 Tim -- as in Russert, the inquisitive jackhammer host of ''Meet the Press'' -- is a particular obsession of Matthews's. Matthews craves Russert's approval like that of an older brother. He is often solicitous. On the morning of the Cleveland debate, Matthews was standing in the lobby of the Ritz when Russert walked through, straight from a workout, wearing a sweat-drenched Buffalo Bills sweatshirt, long shorts and black rubber-soled shoes with tube socks. ''Here he is; here he is, the man,'' Matthews said to Russert, who smiled and chatted for a few minutes before returning to his room. (An MSNBC spokesman, Jeremy Gaines, tried, after the fact, to declare Russert's outfit ''off the record.'')
 Matthews has berated Russert to several people at NBC and has told friends and associates that Russert is like John F. Kennedy while he is more like Richard Nixon. Kennedy was the golden boy while Nixon was the scrapper for whom nothing came easily. It's an imperfect comparison, certainly (Matthews is Irish Catholic, for starters, and Russert is not charismatic by any classic Kennedyesque definition), but it does offer a glimpse into how Matthews perceives himself, especially in relation to Russert. It's also worth noting that Nixon was obsessed with Kennedy, and Kennedy could be dismissive and disparaging of Nixon.
 A number of people I spoke with at NBC said that Russert can be disdainful of Matthews, whose act he often sees as clownish. They also told me that Russert believes Matthews is something of a loose cannon who brings him undue headaches in his capacity as NBC's Washington bureau chief. This friction was immortalized in notes revealed during the trial of Scooter Libby. Mary Matalin, an adviser to Vice President Dick Cheney, was quoted as having suggested that Libby call Russert to complain about Matthews's rants against the White House's Iraq policy. ''Call Tim -- he hates Chris,'' Matalin supposedly told Libby. Russert denies that he felt this way then or now. ''I've always had a very good relationship with Chris,'' he told me. ''We do different things.'' Matalin, for her part, insists that she doesn't remember ever saying that Russert ''hates Chris.''
 Regardless, Matthews has an attuned sense of pecking order -- at MSNBC, at NBC, in Washington and in life. This is no great rarity among the fragile egos of TV or, for that matter, in the status-fixated world of politics. But Matthews is especially frontal about it. In an interview with Playboy a few years ago, he volunteered that he had made the list of the Top 50 journalists in D.C. in The Washingtonian magazine. ''I'm like 36th, and Tim Russert is No. 1,'' Matthews told Playboy. ''I would argue for a higher position for myself.''
 He wanted to feel part of the ''first team,'' he added. ''You can be on the second team at 25 or 36. But at some point you say: No, this is my opportunity, my life. I want to be on the first team.''
 Matthews, the second-oldest of five boys, often talks about birth order and sibling rivalry. One day when I was with him, Matthews kept calling his son Thomas for his 22nd birthday. ''You always have to pay special attention to the middle one,'' Matthews said. ''They need to know you're thinking of them.''
 Matthews and his brothers deploy the standard line about how their crowded family dinner table made for nightly battles over food and the right to be heard. It is also clear that MSNBC's political dinner table is getting crowded. NBC views MSNBC as a major source of potential growth and is encouraging its big name talents -- Russert, Brian Williams and, from time to time, Tom Brokaw -- to appear as guests on the cable channel. It makes for crammed sets, limited airtime and a lot of personalities to keep happy on important campaign nights.
 Friends say Matthews is wary of another up-and-comer, David Gregory, who last month was given a show at 6 o'clock, between airings of ''Hardball.'' It is a common view around NBC that Gregory is trying out as a possible replacement for Matthews. Before the flight from Cleveland to Washington took off, an NBC staff member noted that Matthews, Russert and Andrea Mitchell were all on board, and if the plane were to crash, it would devastate the network's talent pool. Matthews quipped that Gregory was outside the plane arranging for just that. (''I hadn't heard that,'' Gregory told me. ''I'm quite sure he was joking.'')
 Matthews is also aware that little brother Keith Olbermann has become the signature talent of MSNBC. Matthews seems less than thrilled with ''co-anchoring'' MSNBC's election coverage with him, as he has done on many nights during this campaign. When Olbermann is on the same set, Matthews appears different -- restrained, even shrinking at times. According to people at NBC, Matthews has not been shy in voicing his resentment of Olbermann. Nor, according to network sources, has Olbermann bothered to hide his low regard for Matthews, although when I spoke to him, Olbermann denied any personal animosity toward Matthews and told me that he appreciates his ''John Madden-like enthusiasm for politics.''
 But Olbermann does acknowledge that their on-air marriage has been rocky. Stylistically, Olbermann is scripted and disciplined while Matthews is free-form. While Olbermann is a natural anchor, Matthews struggles with its basic mechanics -- staying on time, not talking into breaks. ''There is a sense at times that we are always joining Chris Matthews already in progress,'' Olbermann told me. Matthews has been on 10 years, he went on to say, ''and he has no idea when it stops and starts. My responsibility sometimes is to grab the wheel when he doesn't hold it.'' Matthews has also called their joint appearances ''Hardball,'' which annoys Olbermann and which he has not been shy about correcting on the air. ''No, this is not 'Hardball,' I will say, and in those instances, a correction is appropriate.''
 Sometimes during commercial breaks, Matthews will boast to Olbermann of having restrained himself during the prior segment. ''And I reward him with a grape,'' Olbermann says.
 Chris Matthews loved politics from a young age -- starting at around 5, his brothers say. He spent a lot of time with his grandfather Charles Patrick Shields, a Democratic committeeman from the working class North Philadelphia neighborhood of Nicetown. Shields's ''office'' was a neighborhood newsstand. ''He was a good man of the parish,'' Chris's younger brother Jim told me. Chris revered him. ''I think Tip O'Neill reminded Chris a little of Grandpa,'' Jim added, meaning they both fit the urban-ethnic prototype of the backslapping operator from the neighborhood.
 Matthews's father, Herb, was a court reporter and worked all the time. Chris spent his early childhood in a row house, before the family moved to Somerton, a leafy neighborhood at Philadelphia's northeast tip. The boys went to Catholic schools and took family trips to a summer house on the Jersey shore. The family generally voted Republican. Chris loved John F. Kennedy in 1960, but wound up falling harder for Nixon by the end and cried when he lost. ''We weren't a huggy family -- we had our fracases -- but we basically got along,'' Jim Matthews, now the Republican chairman of the board of commissioners in Montgomery County, Pa., told me. 
 Matthews attended Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass. He studied hard and engaged in long, loud political debates in the cafeteria. His political allegiance evolved from Barry Goldwater to Eugene McCarthy (''just like Hillary,'' he says). He also nurtured a passionate affair with television. He loved Johnny Carson, particularly his persona as a wide-eyed Nebraskan, awed that movie stars were actually talking to him. ''Carson was great company,'' Matthews says. ''He was big company. Best company in the world.'' He identifies with this. ''Now, I am people's company,'' he told me. ''Do you know that women come up to me all the time and say, 'My husband watched you until the end, until he died'?'' (Also, Matthews added, Carson ''had babes on the show.'')
 After graduating from college in 1967, Matthews went on to the University of North Carolina to pursue a doctorate in economics, but he left in 1968 to join the Peace Corps. The following year, he was posted in Swaziland, in southeast Africa, where he taught business skills to villagers and rode around on a little Suzuki motorcycle. ''He often wore a necktie,'' recalls Fred O'Regan, a fellow volunteer.
 ''I remember we were out hitchhiking once,'' O'Regan told me. Matthews started arguing about Nixon and Vietnam. ''It was just like watching his show today. Chris would ask a question, then he would answer it himself and then the person was invited to comment on Chris's answer to his own question.''
 Matthews returned after two years and in 1974 ran for Congress in northeast Philadelphia. He lost in the Democratic primary, but it started what became an exhaustive job search that landed him on Capitol Hill and then in the White House as a speech writer for President Carter. He parlayed the White House job into a series of positions on Capitol Hill that would culminate at the side of Speaker Tip O'Neill during the 1980s. Matthews was essentially his media and message guru, such as they were in those days. He would help the lumbering, untelegenic speaker do battle with Ronald Reagan. ''Chris was an important bridge for my father between the old and the new media world,'' said Rosemary O'Neill, the daughter of the late speaker. ''You always knew Chris was there. He was a big personality, even then. He was never hiding behind the ficus trees.'' 
 Matthews's 1988 book, ''Hardball,'' distilled lessons from his life in politics and became a best seller. It also could be read as a how-to guide to social and career climbing in Washington. ''It's not who you know; it's who you get to know'' is the title of the first chapter and has been something of a mantra for Matthews throughout his ascent.
 After O'Neill retired in 1987, Matthews was offered a columnist's job at The San Francisco Examiner. He earned $200 a week for his twice-weekly column and envisioned himself a big-city scribe like Jimmy Breslin, who could walk into a bar and have people give him grief about his column. But San Francisco wasn't one of those newspaper cities. ''It looks like an Eastern city,'' he says. ''But it's pretty hard for people to read newspapers when they're riding a bike.''
 Still, the column -- at The Examiner and then at The San Francisco Chronicle -- gave him an affiliation that helped get him on TV. He appeared on ''CBS This Morning'' and ''Good Morning America'' and begged himself onto the political shout fests like ''The McLaughlin Group.'' Fox News's Roger Ailes gave Matthews his first show, ''In-Depth,'' on an obscure network called America's Talking. ''Hardball'' had its debut in 1997, on CNBC, and was catapulted by the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal. Matthews built an instant following, and loathing. In his book about the media's conduct during the Monica saga, Bill Kovach, the founding chairman of the Committee of Concerned Journalists, anointed Matthews as part of a ''new class of chatterers who emerged in this scandal . . . a group of loosely credentialed, self-interested performers whose primary job is remaining on TV.''
 Matthews is clearly an acquired taste, and some of his most devoted followers are Washington media figures and politicians. ''The things people complain about I actually like,'' says Roger Simon, the chief political columnist for the Politico news Web site and an occasional guest on ''Hardball.'' ''His interruptions are invariably a reaction to something you just said, which indicates that he is, in fact, listening.'' Simon calls Matthews ''a major political force'' whose shows are closely monitored by campaigns and journalists. ''I know when I go on the show, I get comments, I get e-mails,'' Simon told me. ''He drives conversations.''
 If Matthews has an overriding professional insecurity, it is being confined to the pigeonhole of cable blowhard. The insecurity is well founded, since this is how many people view him. ''The shorthand for Chris in the gossip columns is always 'blabbermouth' or 'cable yakker' or something,'' said Nancy Nathan, the executive producer of ''The Chris Matthews Show.'' ''It's not fair or accurate. But it's obviously out there.''
 Matthews takes great pride in ''The Chris Matthews Show,'' as if its select Sunday morning time slot, just before ''Meet the Press,'' confers him a spot on the coveted first team. ''We envision viewers watching up on the West Side of New York,'' Nathan told me. ''They've been to Zabar's. They have their bagel, juice, coffee. These are smart people who want smart analysis. We like to think we're a complement to 'Meet the Press.' ''
 When I asked Matthews about the bloviator stigma, he dismissed it as jealousy or at the very least ignorance among those who don't know him or who don't regularly watch his Sunday show or who have not read his books or who are not aware that he is a student of history and film or that he is on the board of trustees of the Churchill Center or that he has received -- did he mention? -- 19 honorary degrees. (Breaking honorary-degree news: Matthews told me in late March that he expects to be up to at least 22 later this spring.)
 He also mentioned -- more than once -- that he has heard that the historian David McCullough watches ''Hardball'' every night and that ''Arthur Schlesinger watched 'Hardball' '' and that sometimes ''Joan Didion watched 'Hardball' with her husband, John Gregory Dunne, before he died.''
 Matthews envisions his role in this presidential campaign to that of Eric Sevareid and Walter Cronkite in 1968. ''Your job is to illuminate, illuminate the game,'' Matthews says. He faces a nightly challenge to ''bring to life'' the unfurling of history. Matthews says he wants to be synonymous with this campaign, like Howard Cosell was with Muhammad Ali.
 ''Imagine bullfighting without Hemingway,'' he says. ''I can't.''
 Is Matthews comparing himself to Hemingway?
 ''No way,'' he says. ''Don't you, don't you [expletive] do that.''
 Matthews fashions himself a blend of big-think historian and little-guy populist. Steve Capus, the president of NBC News, who is also from Philadelphia, says that Matthews has internalized the ''inferiority complex'' of his native city. Matthews says that although he's now 6-foot-3, he was little as a child and has always viewed himself as ''a short guy.'' 
 ''I don't think people look at me as the establishment, do you?'' Matthews asked me. ''Am I part of the winner's circle in American life? I don't think so.''
 But he attends many of the same events they do. He is diligent about showing up at the city's tribal rites -- hotel dinners, book parties, tributes. He is dutiful about traveling to family weddings, funerals, graduations and first communions. ''I place a high premium on showing up,'' Matthews says. ''It's the Woody Allen thing. And one of the things Tip said about certain people -- and he meant this as a put-down -- was, 'You never see him around anymore.' ''
 It's important to be around. When our plane from Cleveland landed in Washington, Matthews learned that William F. Buckley Jr. had just died. Matthews appeared stricken, though he barely knew Buckley. He said he would attend the funeral.
 Washington has no dearth of events honoring Matthews himself. Serial bashes seem to follow every Matthews milestone. Within a few weeks last fall, Matthews was feted at the Georgetown home of the socialite and Democratic fund-raiser Elizabeth Bagley to mark the publication of ''Life's a Campaign.'' He was toasted at a bigger 10th anniversary party for ''Hardball,'' which doubled as a book party for ''Life's a Campaign,'' at Decatur House in Washington.
 ''I don't go where the politicians go,'' Matthews told me, though he is grateful when they show up, and he keeps track (''Teddy was at the Decatur House,'' he said, meaning Kennedy). As I began researching this article, Jeremy Gaines, an MSNBC spokesman, gave me the names of about a dozen people that Matthews recommended I speak to, all famous -- everyone from Nancy Pelosi to Marvin Hamlisch. But gatekeepers for more than one of these people expressed confusion as to why Matthews would refer me to them. ''Please keep us out of this,'' pleaded a spokesperson for one prominent politician whom Matthews had recommended via Gaines.
 For someone so steeped in the ego-manglings of politics and television, Matthews can be spectacularly thin-skinned. He sulks at mild put-downs and lashes out at critics (though rarely holds grudges). At one point, I teased him gently about his tendency to repeat things -- it was the item about how Arthur Schlesinger, Joan Didion and David McCullough all watched ''Hardball.'' It seemed to deflate him. He sunk in his chair. ''It's tough, it's a rough cut,'' Matthews said of criticism. ''I'm not completely Nietzchean about this. That what doesn't kill me makes me stronger? I've always wondered about that. I'm not sure that's true at all.''
 When I asked his wife, Kathleen, how he takes criticism, she told me: ''He hears it; he absorbs it. Then he comes home and wrestles with it.''
 The 2008 campaign has provided Matthews with much to wrestle with. He has been attacked, repeatedly, for his perceived pro-Obama/anti-Clinton perspective -- a bias he disputes. He notes that he and the former first lady like to ''kid around'' when they see each other and that he did a memorably tough interview with an Obama surrogate, State Senator Kirk Watson of Texas, who failed -- despite Matthews's grilling -- to identify a single legislative accomplishment by Obama. ''That was an iconic moment,'' Matthews said of the Watson interview.
 Still, it's hard to watch Matthews and conclude that he has been anything less than enthralled by Obama and, at the very least, is sick of Clinton. The antipathy dates back some time. Just before the start of Clinton's first campaign for the Senate in 2000, Matthews said: ''Hillary Clinton bugs a lot of guys, I mean, really bugs people -- like maybe me on occasion. . . . She drives some of us absolutely nuts.'' During this campaign he has repeatedly referred to her sense of entitlement and arrogance. Meanwhile, David Shuster, a correspondent for MSNBC who appears frequently on ''Hardball,'' was suspended for two weeks earlier this year for asking whether the Clinton campaign had ''pimped out'' Chelsea Clinton by enlisting her to court celebrities and superdelegates. 
 By contrast, Matthews has called Obama ''bigger than Kennedy'' and compared the success of his campaign to ''the New Testament.'' His reviews of Obama's speeches have been comically effusive at times, as when he described ''this thrill going up my leg'' after an Obama victory speech. (''Steady,'' Olbermann cautioned him on the air.)
 ''I love Chris, but he definitely drank the Obama Kool-Aid,'' Ed Rendell, the Pennsylvania governor and a Clinton supporter, told me.
 In a recent interview on ''Morning Joe'' with Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who had just endorsed Obama, Matthews described the ''stunning picture'' of a Latino governor (Richardson) standing with an African-American candidate and how inspiring it was for so many voters. ''That is where we should be putting our focus, not on the feelings of the Clintons, about what people owe them and their sense of entitlement,'' Matthews said.
 Richardson tried to say something, but Matthews just kept going. ''We've got to stop talking about this as if this were a sitcom,'' Matthews continued. ''We had eight years of the sitcom. . . . It's a sitcom, and it's gotta end.'' He lamented that 4,000 people are dead in Iraq ''because of decisions made by politicians like the Clintons.''
 Mika Brzezinski, a co-host of ''Morning Joe,'' then asked Matthews whether he was endorsing Obama. 
 ''Why would you say that?'' Matthews said, looking dumbfounded. 
 It can be amusing if slightly painful to watch Matthews's facial expressions and body language on the set of ''Hardball'' when others are talking; he will, at times, bounce in his seat like a Ritalin-deprived second-grader who is dying to give an answer but has been admonished too many times for interrupting. He appears to go through the same pained exercise in his own home. Indeed, as I learned at Sunday brunch there, the degree to which the cadences of the Matthews dining room mimic ''Hardball'' is striking.
 Kathleen Matthews had invited me over. ''The queen would love to receive you,'' Chris said on the phone by way of extending the invitation. Matthews's effusiveness toward women certainly extends to his wife of nearly 28 years, a longtime local news anchor in Washington who now works in communications and public affairs for Marriott International. ''Everyone who meets Kathy thinks she's a monumental figure,'' Matthews promised. 
 The Matthewses have three children -- two sons and a daughter -- and Chris is quick to boast about all of them, often in terms that convey an acute case of status consciousness. ''Caroline is at Penn, Thomas is an actor at N.Y.U. and Michael went to Brown,'' Matthews told me on multiple occasions. Kathleen ''graduated from Stanford,'' he mentioned one day, adding that ''she had a 3.7 there.'' That was 33 years ago.
 Chris gave directions to his white-frame Victorian house in Chevy Chase, Md., built in 1885. ''Right across from Tommy Boggs's house,'' he said, referring to the Washington lobbyist, son of the former House majority leader. The Matthews house is sun-lit, art-filled and cozy, with three Mercedes of various sizes and degrees of wear in the driveway. I arrived at 11 a.m., just as Matthews was leaving.
 ''I promised a bunch of Koreans I'd get my picture taken with them, so that's where I'm going,'' he explained. ''I'll be right back.''
 The morning had been a small fiasco at the Matthews home. Chris and Kathleen had overslept, and instead of waking at 10 a.m., as they typically do on Sundays -- in time for ''The Chris Matthews Show'' -- they woke at 10:30 (and Russert!), and then Chris had to run off to this photo thing he had forgotten about.
 So Kathleen made lattes in the kitchen while Caroline -- home on a break from Penn -- sat at an island-table spread with Sunday newspapers. She is finishing her freshman year and active in the Obama campaign. Kathleen, meanwhile, contributed $2,200 to the Clinton campaign.
 Chris returned after 20 minutes, and Kathleen served seafood pasta in the dining room. When he realized the pasta was whole wheat, Chris helped himself to seconds. 
 After we finished eating, I placed a tape recorder on the table, which would later yield many sequences of indecipherable cross talk, along with long, loud monologues from guess who. ''We all talk about the Clintons,'' Matthews said at the conclusion of a diatribe about the national obsession with Bill and Hillary. ''I have never been at a party where it doesn't become a topic. Who are we gonna talk about? Bob Dole? John Kerry? Al Gore?''
 Kathleen added, ''Also, we've had so much time with them. We've watched them in this fishbowl.''
 Chris: ''I find it very hard to do.''
 Kathleen: ''With the Obamas, we can't even speculate.''
 Chris: ''I watched the D.L.C. convention in 1991.''
 Kathleen: ''And even McCain.''
 Chris: ''I sort of get him. We went out with the McCains for dinner one night.''
 Kathleen: ''Chi-chi Vietnamese.''
 Chris: ''Here's the thing about the Clintons.''
 The conversation moved to what Matthews calls ''the sexist thing,'' or what Media Matters calls Matthews's ''history of degrading comments about women, in which he focuses on the physical appearances of his female guests and of other women discussed on his program.'' This would include Matthews loudly admiring the conservative radio host Laura Ingraham (''You're great looking, obviously -- one of God's gifts to men in this country''), Elizabeth Edwards (''You've got a great face''), Jane Fonda (''You also dazzle us with your beauty and all the good things''), CNBC's Margaret Brennan (''You're gorgeous'') and Erin Burnett (''You're beautiful. . . . You're a knockout''), among others. The Burnett episode was especially remarked upon. In the video Matthews instructed Burnett to ''get a little closer to the camera.'' As Burnett became confused, Matthews persisted: ''Come on in closer. No, come in -- come in further -- come in closer. Really close.'' It was, at the minimum, uncomfortable to watch.
 Matthews says the notion that he is sexist has been pushed unfairly by blogs, women's groups and, to some degree, the Clinton campaign. His remark that Clinton benefitted because her husband ''messed around'' triggered much outrage from the Clinton team. Matthews eventually apologized in a rambling on-air explanation, but he hardly sounds contrite now. ''I was tonally inaccurate but factually true,'' he told me. I had asked him earlier if he was forced into the apology. ''Oh, yeah, of course I was forced into that,'' he said, laughing. ''No, no, no . . . Phil [Griffin] asked me to do that.''
 Matthews vigorously denies the broader charge that he demeans women on the air. ''I don't think there's any evidence of that at all,'' he said at brunch. ''I've gone back and looked. Give me the evidence. No one can give it to me. I went through all my stuff. I can't find it.'' I mentioned Erin Burnett, and the name landed like a brick on the dining-room table.
 ''Ask Kathy, she might have a view,'' Matthews said.
 Kathy began to give her view, but Chris interrupted. ''She was doing peek-a-boo style,'' he said of Burnett. ''She was doing in and out of the camera, and I said, 'Can you get any closer to the camera?' And she said, 'What are you kidding about -- is there something wrong with the way I look?' And I said, 'No, you're a knockout.' ''
 Anyway, as Kathleen was saying: ''I think it's pure Chris appreciating a good-looking woman. And from her standpoint it was embarrassing because she wasn't sure what to do with it.''
 Her husband jumped in and added that before the Burnett interview, he had ''made a decision to do a whimsical Friday-night show.''
 ''I guess the bottom line is, What does it show?'' Kathleen said. ''Is it disrespect for women? Objectifying women?''
 ''It's a show,'' Chris replied.
 ''Or does it show appreciation for a pretty woman?'' Kathleen said. ''I think that's the question.'' It was unclear exactly where Kathleen stood on this question. ''I think his greatest worry,'' Kathleen said, ''is that I might watch it on TV and scream at him.'' It wasn't clear in this case whether she did or not.
 ''It's a show,'' Chris said again, interrupting. ''It's a show. That's my basic response.''
 He bemoaned political correctness. ''We'll, we're just going to have to survive this era,'' Matthews said, sighing.
 He looked down at the tape recorder. ''We're taping all this, aren't we? I'm giving you a lot of stuff here.''
 It had now been more than three hours at the Matthews home without a commercial. Chris drove me to a subway stop. ''Don't talk to anyone who hasn't known me 30 years,'' he instructed, not for the first time. That, he said, will show readers that Chris Matthews hasn't changed, that he has always been the way he is. The implication, also, is that it would be hard to change him now.
 I visited Matthews at NBC's Washington bureau on the night of the Mississippi primary. He would be broadcasting a special edition of ''Hardball'' after the returns came in. Since Mississippi was a smaller primary, none of the NBC first-team would be cluttering the set, and it would be Matthews's show, with help from his regulars -- Eugene Robinson of The Washington Post, Chuck Todd of NBC and Howard Fineman of Newsweek.
 Matthews was scheduled to do a taped interview with Obama. When I arrived, he was sitting in his office with a bunch of ''Hardball'' staff members arrayed around his desk. Matthews can be temperamental and sometimes explosive, but his employees evince ease in his presence. They were thinking of questions for Matthews to ask Obama. Prof. Orlando Patterson of Harvard had written a column in that day's New York Times suggesting that Hillary Clinton's 3 a.m. phone-call ad was not meant to evoke fear of terrorism but rather crime. ''Is this an ad about 9/11 or an ad about 911?'' Matthews said. ''Ha!'' He loved this line. We would hear it again.
 ''Hey, you haven't looked around in here, have you?'' he asked, gesturing toward me. He was already up and leading a quickie tour. ''Did you know that Holy Cross gave me a chair?'' Matthews said. ''I was excited. I thought it was going to be something like, the Distinguished Chris Matthews Chair of So and So at Holy Cross.'' But no, he said. He received an actual chair from the college, emblazoned with the school logo. The chair is now in the middle of the office. And, for what it's worth, it's lovely, made of solid wood. ''But I was disappointed, I have to admit,'' Matthews said.
 He taped the Obama interview, which went smoothly if uneventfully. ''Hardball'' began. During a cut-in, Dan Abrams, the host of the previous hour, mentioned that the Clinton campaign was going after delegates who were already committed to Obama. Matthews pounced: ''They do that for the reason North Koreans dig tunnels underneath the D.M.Z. at the 30th parallel. They get people jittery on the other side. That's why they do it. They can't get through those tunnels. They can have the tunnels to scare people, but they ain't going through the tunnels.''
 It was vintage Matthews, as was the scene while his interview with Obama played, without volume, on a monitor. Staring at the screen, Matthews squinted, cocked his head and leaned forward. ''Have you noticed,'' he said to no one in particular, ''that my head looks about four times as big as Obama's?''
 Later, I talked to Matthews about his TV franchise. He's clearly proud of it, but he also seems restless. Friends who have known him a long time say he worries that ''the suits'' at NBC want him out. He has been openly contemplating ''the second act'' in a career that has already featured several.
 ''I have a lot of options,'' Matthews told me. ''I'm a free man starting next June.'' There has been long-running speculation that Matthews could be a candidate to replace Bob Schieffer, whenever he retires, as the host of CBS's Sunday morning show ''Face the Nation.'' 
 The more intriguing notion is that Matthews could challenge Senator Arlen Specter, who is up for re-election in Pennsylvania in 2010. This has been rumored before, but Matthews has been particularly obsessed with Pennsylvania of late, devoting hours on and off the air to the state's upcoming Democratic primary, staying in close contact with the state's party apparatus. ''I talked to Eddie Rendell today,'' Matthew told me on the phone a few weeks ago, urging me again to call the Pennsylvania governor. 
 My phone call with Matthews also yielded the following: His recent appearance on ''Ellen'' is getting ''all kinds of pick-up.'' He had dinner the previous night with Nancy Reagan in Beverly Hills. The film rights for his book on Kennedy and Nixon were optioned. He is speaking at Harvard in May.
 I asked him about the Senate rumors. He thinks Specter has hung on way too long, he said, but running would require Matthews to give up a career he loves. Still, ''I get a great feeling when I go home,'' he told me. ''Is Thomas Wolfe right? Can you go home again?
 ''Really, you should talk to Eddie Rendell.'' 
 TALES OF THE TAPE Links to videos of some of Chris Matthews's most-talked-about on-air moments. nytimes.com/magazine

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1986: Matthews with Tip O'Neill. 1980 With President Jimmy Carter on Air Force One. Matthews is seated, lower right, next to Hendrik Hertzberg and in front of Jody Powell
1989: With the first President Bush
1992: With the candidate Bill Clinton and William Randolph Hearst III, publisher of The San Francisco Examiner
Matthews and John Reiss, the executive producer of ''Hardball,'' at a production meeting. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OLAF BLECKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRIS MATTHEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CELEBRITIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); IRAQ WAR (70%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); TIM RUSSERT (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); JESSE JACKSON (52%); LARRY CRAIG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



351 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; QUESTIONS FOR GROVER G. NORQUIST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Tax Exemptor

BYLINE: Interview by DEBORAH SOLOMON

 BODY:
As an influential conservative who heads Americans for Tax Reform and has been called the prime architect behind President Bush's major tax cuts, you probably have filed your income taxes already. I have not. I will be there before April 15.
 Have you ever contemplated not paying your taxes? I'm not for no taxes. That would be an anarchist. I am for lower taxes. 
 How many tax cuts has the Bush administration pushed through so far? There have been 15 tax cuts in the Bush years, two big ones, the rest less big. 
 Now that we're facing an economic slowdown, not to mention a $9 trillion national debt, is it fair to ask whether the Bush tax cuts have damaged the country? Oh, no, no, the spending has done the damage. 
 The spending in Iraq? That's what the White House says. But it's not true. The war spending is a fraction of the spend-too-much problem. When you want an extra dollar for the war, you have to give Congress $2 for other stuff. 
 Are you serving as an economic adviser to the McCain campaign? I was working with all of the Republican candidates. He won, and he's the tax cutter, so I am with him. He reciprocates by sending at least one person to each of our Center-Right meetings. 
 It's odd that you are supporting McCain. Didn't you call him a Bolshevik after he voted against President Bush's tax cuts? I think that was an overstatement. 
 These days he's promising to make the Bush tax cuts permanent. How do you explain his about-face? He was very unhappy about losing the presidential nomination in 2000. He was very mad at Bush. He was mad at me, too. He was gnawing on my ankles for a while. 
 You're saying he opposed the tax cuts out of spite? Out of understandable pique. 
 You've just published your first book, ''Leave Us Alone: Getting the Government's Hands Off Our Money, Our Guns, Our Lives.'' That's what we want the government to do -- to get out of our wallets, our places of worship, our 401(k)'s and our decision to wear a helmet when we ride a Harley. 
 Leave us alone? Isn't that an adolescent philosophy? The state treats us like 12-year-olds. They tell you how much water can be in your toilet bowl, how big your car can be. 
 You can't possibly think that American cars are too small. Everyone would have bigger and safer cars if they didn't have those CAFE standards, corporate average fuel economy. 
 Many prominent conservatives feel the movement needs to be more environmentally conscious and are recommending big-government solutions like a carbon tax. But nobody listens, because it's nonsense. 
 Don't you see how regulation could help? If you let people own their land, they take care of it. That's why privately owned land is always taken care of, and the parks look like cesspools. Nobody takes care of what everybody owns. 
 I read that your mom was the town tax assessor in Weston, Mass., when you were growing up. That is true. Her job was making sure that houses were accurately assessed. 
 Do you see your work as a kind of rebellion against the pro-tax activities of your mother? Oh, no, not at all. She is generally with me on the need for overall lower taxes. I thought up the no-tax-increase pledge when I was 14 years old.
 What is the point of that? I feel like my children will be paying for the budget follies of this generation for the rest of their lives. Oh, good, then my kids will be off the hook.
 But you don't have children, do you? No, not yet. I've been married three years and we're working on that. I am looking forward to several additional tax deductions of whatever gender. 
 INTERVIEW CONDUCTED, CONDENSED AND EDITED BY DEBORAH SOLOMON

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (83%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX REFORM (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); US 401K PLANS (66%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICANS FOR TAX REFORM (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



352 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Now on the Defensive, Calls 'Bitter' Words Ill-Chosen

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JEFF ZELENY; Julie Bosman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama fought back Saturday against accusations from his rivals that he had displayed a profound misunderstanding of small-town values, in a flare-up that left him on the defensive before a series of primaries that could test his ability to win over white voters in economically distressed communities.
 For a second day, Mr. Obama sought to explain his remarks at a recent San Francisco fund-raiser that small-town Pennsylvania voters, bitter over their economic circumstances, ''cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them'' as a way to explain their frustrations. 
 Acknowledging Saturday that ''I didn't say it as well as I should have,'' he explained his remarks by focusing on his characterization of those voters' economic woes. He meant, he said, that voters in places that had been losing jobs for years expressed their anxiety at the polls by focusing on cultural and social issues like gun laws and immigration. 
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton activated her entire campaign apparatus to portray Mr. Obama's remarks as reflective of an elitist view of faith and community. His comments, she said, were ''not reflective of the values and beliefs of Americans.''
 Mrs. Clinton suggested that Mr. Obama saw religious commitment, hunting and concern about immigration as emotional responses to economic strain rather than as deeply embedded values.
 ''I grew up in a church-going family, a family that believed in the importance of living out and expressing our faith,'' she said at a rally in Indianapolis. ''The people of faith I know don't 'cling to' religion because they're bitter. People embrace faith not because they are materially poor, but because they are spiritually rich.''
 Later in the day, in Valparaiso, Ind., she reminisced about her father teaching her how to shoot when she was a young girl.
 Although she has been a strong supporter of gun control in the past, urging Congress to ''buck the gun lobby'' as first lady, Mrs. Clinton said, ''Americans who believe in the Second Amendment believe it's a constitutional right; Americans who believe in God believe it's a matter of personal faith.''
 Mr. Obama, of Illinois, had already been under pressure to show that he was capable of connecting with voters in industrial states who have been hit hard by years of economic upheaval and now feel especially vulnerable in the new downturn. 
 As a result, his remarks in San Francisco provided an opportunity not just for Mrs. Clinton, but for Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee. Republicans are seeking to win over Reagan Democrats, whose economic condition would seem to make them likely Democratic voters but whose social values align with a more conservative agenda.
 It was not clear whether Mr. Obama's remarks were resonating with voters. But they came at a critical time, as he heads toward a debate on Wednesday with Mrs. Clinton and the primary on April 22 in Pennsylvania. Mrs. Clinton, of New York, is hoping a strong victory there will keep aloft her prospects of winning the Democratic nomination. The two candidates are also both appearing Sunday night in Harrisburg, Pa., at a forum on values and faith.
 While Mr. Obama cast his remarks as an expression of populist sympathy for a displaced working class, Mrs. Clinton and her surrogates suggested that they went to the heart of his political vulnerability: while his message of hope has energized young and affluent voters, he has yet to dispel concern about whether a young, African-American candidate can persuade white, working class Democrats that he represents their interests.
 The comments presented the Clinton campaign with the kind of opportunity it had been hoping for, in which Mr. Obama would show a vulnerability that could be exploited. 
 Seizing on his remarks with zeal, Mrs. Clinton mentioned them throughout the day on Saturday. And the campaign deployed several public officials in Pennsylvania, Indiana and North Carolina to keep up the drumbeat.
 The campaigns organized dueling conference calls for reporters on Saturday, both featuring Pennsylvania mayors who supported their side. 
 Mr. Obama made the remarks at a closed-door fund-raiser in San Francisco last Sunday -- before a very different crowd from those he has been courting in Pennsylvania and Indiana -- after he was asked why he was not doing better in Pennsylvania. Polls there show him narrowing the gap with Mrs. Clinton but still lagging behind.
 ''You go into these small towns in Pennsylvania and, like a lot of small towns in the Midwest, the jobs have been gone now for 25 years and nothing's replaced them,'' Mr. Obama responded, according to a transcript of the fund-raiser published on Friday on The Huffington Post Web site.
 ''And they fell through the Clinton administration, and the Bush administration, and each successive administration has said that somehow these communities are gonna regenerate and they have not,'' Mr. Obama went on. ''And it's not surprising then they get bitter, they cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them or anti-immigrant sentiment or antitrade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations.'' 
 By Saturday morning, Mr. Obama was trying to contain the political damage after a series of late-night and early-morning strategy calls in which advisers decided he had to acknowledge that he made a mistake.
 His aides made a flurry of calls to superdelegates to explain his remarks and to reassure them about his electability. And Mr. Obama told audiences Saturday that what he had said about people's economic circumstances was true, if inartfully expressed, but that he was not trying to play down the importance of religion or gun rights. 
 ''Lately there has been a little typical sort of political flare-up because I said something that everybody knows is true,'' Mr. Obama said, ''which is that there are a whole bunch of folks in small towns in Pennsylvania, in towns right here in Indiana, in my hometown in Illinois, who are bitter.''
 ''So I said, well, you know when you're bitter, you turn to what you can count on,'' he added. ''So people, they vote about guns, or they take comfort from their faith and their family and their community.'' 
 Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, campaigning with Mrs. Clinton, told reporters that Mr. Obama's remarks should serve as a warning to superdelegates that he would be a weak general election candidate.
 Mr. Bayh and other Clinton supporters suggested that Republicans would use these remarks to help define Mr. Obama as a cultural elitist who was hostile to rural voters, much the way Republicans portrayed Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the Democratic nominee in 2004.
 ''They're going to say that we're weak on national security,'' Mr. Bayh said, ''that we're a bunch of high taxers and spenders, and out here in the middle of the country we don't understand people's values. The question is, have we given them some hook they can hang their hat on to make that argument?''
 In fact, Republicans have moved to capitalize on Mr. Obama's comments. The Republican National Congressional Committee, for example, has been calling on Democratic members of Congress to denounce the remarks.
 Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, who is Mrs. Clinton's most prominent supporter in that state, said Mr. Obama should not have implied that rural voters were clinging to their guns as a way of dealing with their frustrations.
 ''People in rural Pennsylvania don't turn to guns and religion as an escape,'' Mr. Rendell said. ''Hunting and sportsmanship are long-established traditions here, and people of faith founded the commonwealth and continue to live here. What the senator has done is essentially misread what is actually happening in Pennsylvania.''
 But J. Richard Gray, the mayor of Lancaster and an Obama supporter, said this was not what Mr. Obama meant. Mr. Obama was trying to say, Mr. Gray argued, that Republicans take emotional issues like guns and religion and try to use them to divide people.
 ''I don't think he's demeaning religion or guns,'' Mr. Gray said. ''He's saying the use of those issues as wedge issues plays on the bitterness that people have and diverts attention from the real economic issues, like the disparity between the wage earner and the rich.''
 Mr. Gray also said Mr. Obama was right that voters were bitter, although he said he would have used the word angry. He pointed to a recent poll that found 81 percent of voters believed the country was on the wrong track. He said Mrs. Clinton sounded like ''a Pollyanna'' in saying that workers were optimistic. 
 ''I don't know who she's been talking to,'' Mr. Gray said.
 Ed Mitchell, a Democratic consultant in Wilkes-Barre who supports Mr. Obama, said that while he did not agree with the comments, he still favored him. ''I think he's right that voters are frustrated, but I don't think they seek refuge in anything so much as they want leadership and change,'' Mr. Mitchell said. ''That's why I support him. I think he offers that best.''
 David Saunders, a Democratic strategist and rural advocate, advised John Edwards's presidential campaign but is now neutral. He said he believed that Mr. Obama's comments would offend rural voters. 
 ''It could mean he's rendered himself unelectable,'' Mr. Saunders said. ''This is a perfect example of why Democrats lose elections.''
 Julie Bosman contributed reporting. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama speaking in Muncie, Ind. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A1)
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, with Senator Evan Bayh, at a factory in Indiana on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN KASTER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); FIREARMS (75%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (75%); LOBBYING (74%); IMMIGRATION (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (90%); EVAN BAYH (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



353 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: All the Time He Needs

 BODY:
President Bush said last week that he told his Iraq war commander, Gen. David Petraeus, that ''he'll have all the time he needs.'' We know what that means. It means that the general, like the Iraqi government, should feel no pressure to figure a way out of this disastrous war. It means that even after 20,000 troops come home there will be nearly 140,000 American troops still fighting there -- with no plan for further withdrawals and no plan for leading them to victory.
 It means, as we've always suspected, that Mr. Bush's only real strategy for Iraq has been to hand the mess off to his successor. Mr. Bush gave himself all the time he needs to walk away from one of the biggest strategic failures in American history. 
 General Petraeus and Ryan Crocker, the American ambassador to Baghdad, did not try to hide any of that in their Stay-the-Course 2008 Tour. There were the obligatory claims of military and political progress, but with a lot less specificity than during Stay-the-Course 2007. Mr. Crocker did not even bother to bring charts assessing Iraqi performance on political benchmarks. General Petraeus's charts showed that American troop numbers would come down to around 140,000 this summer -- but showed nothing beyond that. 
 When members of Congress pressed him to explain what would have to change on the ground for him to agree to further withdrawals, the general did not have an answer. He certainly is not getting any pressure from the White House to come up with one. As they say in the military, Mr. Bush is a short-timer, so why should he worry? 
 Whoever wins the presidency will not have the same luxury. He or she will have to start quickly planning for an orderly withdrawal. Even Senator John McCain will have to realize that America's forces cannot sustain this pace for much longer. Earlier this month, The Times reported that repeated battlefield tours have so debilitated American troops that Army leaders fear for their mental health. Last week, Gen. Richard A. Cody, the Army vice chief of staff, warned Congress that the demand for troops in Iraq and Afghanistan ''exceeds the sustainable supply.'' 
 Mr. Bush cut Army combat tours in Iraq from 15 months to 12, but the Pentagon said that will not relieve the strains on troops and their families or allow the United States to send the reinforcements it desperately needs to Afghanistan. 
 The faltering American economy also cannot afford this never-ending war. Mr. Bush's description of his latest emergency spending request as a ''reasonable $108 billion'' proves just how out of touch he is with fiscal reality. His attempt to justify the overall $600 billion cost so far by comparing his war to the cold war and the need to stop ''Soviet expansion'' shows that he is even more out of touch with strategic reality. 
 We believe that the fight against Al Qaeda is the central battle for this generation, but Mr. Bush's claim that Iraq is the main front is wrong. That is Afghanistan, and the United States is in real danger of losing because Mr. Bush's failed adventure in Iraq is eating up the Pentagon's resources and attention. 
 It is clear that Mr. Bush has no intention of coming up with an exit strategy, but even now there are things he could be doing to give his successor a better shot at containing the chaos after American troops leave. 
 Press for Real Political Reforms The surge was supposed to give Iraqi politicians breathing room to make necessary political reforms. They still have not agreed on a law to equitably divide the country's oil wealth, or rules for this fall's provincial elections. 
 The performances in Washington last week merely confirmed what the Iraqis knew: the president is just playing out his string. Mr. Bush might have more luck telling Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki the truth: if the Democrats win in November, the days of enabling will certainly be over, and that is likely to happen even if the Republicans hold the White House. If they know the Americans will not be there to guarantee their survival, Iraq's leaders might be more open to compromise. 
 Make the Iraqis Pick Up the Check Even some of the war's most enthusiastic G.O.P. backers on Capitol Hill are joining the Democrats to demand that the Iraqis start paying for military training and the fuel bill for American soldiers. We suspect that has a lot to do with voters' fury over high gasoline prices, the mortgage crisis and the lagging economy.
 The Iraqi government is estimated to keep $27 billion in reserves in its central bank, $30 billion more in American banks and tens of billions of dollars elsewhere. If they have to pick up more of the check, Iraqi leaders may be more eager to focus on political reform and improved military training. 
 Really Talk to the Neighbors Mr. Bush announced that he is dispatching senior American diplomats to the region to urge Arab states to do more to help Iraq, starting with reopening their embassies in Baghdad. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will also attend a conference of neighboring states and another aid-pledging meeting. 
 The problem goes far beyond embassies and aid. Foreign fighters are not the war's main driver but they are a lethal problem. And once American troops withdraw, the temptation to meddle -- by Iran and Syria but also by Turkey and Saudi Arabia -- will be immense.
 All these countries need to understand that chaos in Iraq is a threat to everyone, and there is no guarantee that it will not spill over Iraq's borders. More bullying and bluster from the president is not likely to get that message across. Nor are canned speeches at conferences. Mr. Bush needs to send his top officials for serious one-on-one discussions with all of Iraq's neighbors, including Iran and Syria. 
 Refugees There are now an estimated 2.4 million Iraqi refugees -- mostly in Syria and Jordan -- and 2.7 million more Iraqis displaced within their own country. The United States bears direct responsibility, and it needs to do a lot more to help these people survive and find safe refuge, back in Iraq or in other countries. It also needs to -- humbly and urgently -- ask its allies in Europe, Asia and the region for help. 
 Beyond the intolerable human suffering, huge flows of refugees could spread Iraq's conflict far beyond its own borders. This is not a problem that can continue to be ignored. 
 An Honest Assessment of Iraq's Army This White House has been spinning on Iraq for so long that we suppose we should thank Mr. Maliki for his recent reality check: his decision to send Iraqi forces into Basra to oust militias loyal to the radical cleric Moktada al-Sadr. 
 It was not a pretty sight. One thousand Iraqi soldiers and police officers refused to fight or deserted their posts. The battle ended with no winner and only after the Iranians helped broker a cease-fire. President Bush and General Petraeus owe the country a rigorous and honest assessment of the American training program, starting with what went wrong in Basra. What needs to be changed now to increase the chances that the Iraqi Army will eventually be able to fight its own battles? How long, realistically, will it take for that to happen?
 Mr. Bush's capacity for denial is limitless. Perhaps he believes that the next president will continue this misadventure without any end in mind, let alone in sight. Even then he owes it to his successor to use his remaining nine months in office to try to address Iraq's myriad problems. That will not excuse Mr. Bush's serial failures. But it may increase the chances for the inevitable withdrawal to be as orderly as possible.
 Mr. Bush has all the time he needs, but Iraq's suffering civilians do not, and neither do its masses of refugees, the bloodied and strained United States armed forces, or the American public.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); HISTORY (73%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (71%); HISTORIC SITES (68%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



354 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Extraordinary Brand, Ordinary Headaches

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
Although Roxanne Quimby, co-founder of Burt's Bees, continues to find the life of an entrepreneur appealing, she is disenchanted with her responsibilities as a landlord. 
 After selling her 80 percent interest in Burt's Bees in 2003 Ms. Quimby formed a children's clothing company, Happy Green Bee. (Clorox bought Burt's Bees, including her remaining stake, last year.) She also bought apartment buildings and homes in Florida and Maine.
 She enjoys running the company but says she ''can't stand'' the apartment buildings because she ''can't deal with tenants.'' Ms. Quimby said she didn't use a management company because ''I'm so used to being hands-on.'' 
 ''But these people are calling me because their dishwasher isn't working,'' she said. ''It's like, 'What?' ''
 ''So I'm getting out of that,'' she said. One of her apartment buildings, in Portland, Me., is under contract now to sell, she said.
 Ms. Quimby was in New York last week for a panel discussion at New York University that included John Peterman, founder of J. Peterman, and Craig Newmark, founder of Craigslist. The three are featured in a new book, ''Accidental Branding: How Ordinary People Build Extraordinary Brands,'' by David Vinjamuri. JANE L. LEVERE HOME SWEET HOME Having an expense account that covers stays in plush hotels is a standard perquisite available to corporate executives. But Sharen J. Turney, the chief executive of Victoria's Secret, gets paid to sleep in her own bed when she is in New York.
 According to the latest proxy statement from Limited Brands, the parent of Victoria's Secret, Ms. Turney received almost $40,000 last year as ''an allowance equal to the amount that the company would have had to pay Ms. Turney to stay in a hotel during her business-related travel to New York.'' Ms. Turney, who lives in Ohio near company headquarters, also owns an apartment in New York, according to a spokeswoman for Limited. 
 And if Ms. Turney leaves Limited, the company may buy her property from her, as it did for two senior executives who departed last year. Limited paid $2.55 million for the home of its former chief operating officer, Leonard A. Schlesinger, and $2.2 million for the home of its former group president for apparel, Jay M. Margolis. PATRICK McGEEHAN 
 JAZZMAN Lincoln Center's spring gala last week turned into a sentimental journey for Robert A. Iger, chief executive of the Walt Disney Company and a Lincoln Center board member since 1995.
 Asked about his favorite activities at Lincoln Center, Mr. Iger said he was a huge jazz fan: ''My dad was a professional jazz trumpet player. So it kind of starts there and it stays there a long time.'' He added, ''I'm an opera fan, I love the symphony, ballet, but it starts with jazz.''
 Frank A. Bennack Jr., chairman of Lincoln Center's board, said Mr. Iger had begun his career as a television weatherman. Mr. Iger said that experience, in Ithaca, N.Y., taught him how to give people bad news. 
 The gala featured performances of Disney movie music by the composer Alan Menken and the singers Michael Bolton and Vanessa Williams. It raised $2.9 million; Disney donated an additional $3 million to Lincoln Center's capital campaign. JANE L. LEVERE 
 BORN TO SHOP Shareholders of Nordstrom should have no complaint about the example that members of the founding family are setting when it comes to shopping. 
 According to the company's latest proxy statement, the three Nordstroms who are senior executives bought merchandise worth more than $370,000 at the company's stores last year. Of course, they did so at a hefty discount: 40 percent off. 
 In disclosing the value of the discount some managers receive, the company revealed the retail price of the items each of them bought. For Blake W. Nordstrom, the president, that total was almost $115,000. For his younger brothers, Peter E. Nordstrom and Erik B. Nordstrom, who are executive vice presidents, it was about $153,000 and $104,000, respectively. PATRICK McGEEHAN 
 ANOTHER LAP When asked three years ago what she might do after her successful tenure as chief executive of the Economist Group, Helen Alexander joked that she might become an Olympic sprinter. Now Ms. Alexander, 51, is leaving her post for real -- not to become a sprinter, but to take a job in another fast-paced industry, as senior adviser for Bain Capital, a private equity firm. 
 Ms. Alexander, who spent 23 years at the Economist, will pass the baton to Andrew Rashbass, who is now publisher and managing director. 
 She leaves behind a flourishing media business. Operating profit at the company, which is based in London, has risen 75 percent over the last five years. JULIA WERDIGIER 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 20, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A brief report in the Suits column last Sunday about members of the Nordstrom family who are executives at the namesake store referred incompletely to discounts they received last year. Although the company's managers do indeed occasionally receive discounts of 40 percent at Nordstrom stores, they usually receive a discount of 33 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas Renyi of Bank of New York Mellon, left, Robert Iger of Disney, center, and Frank Bennack Jr. of Hearst last week at the spring gala for Lincoln Center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERB SWANSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Roxanne Quimby (PHOTOGRAPH BY BLANCHE WILLIAMSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%)

COMPANY: BURT'S BEES INC (90%); WALT DISNEY CO (80%); CRAIGSLIST INC (54%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (53%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (90%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (80%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (80%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (78%); THOMAS A RENYI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); MAINE, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008



355 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: In Spending by the Very Rich, No Such Thing as a Slowdown

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY and ERIC KONIGSBERG; Sharon Otterman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Who said anything about a recession? Sometime between the government bailout of Bear Stearns and the Bureau of Labor Statistics report that America lost 80,000 jobs in March, Lee Tachman spent roughly $50,000 last month on a four-day jaunt to Miami for himself and three close friends.
 The trip was an exercise in luxuriant male bonding. Mr. Tachman, who is 38, and his friends got around by private jet, helicopter, Hummer limousine, Ferraris and Lamborghinis; stayed in V.I.P. rooms at Casa Casuarina, the South Beach hotel that was formerly Gianni Versace's mansion; and played ''extreme adventure paintball'' with former agents of the federal Drug Enforcement Administration.
 Mr. Tachman, a manager for a company that executes trades for hedge funds and the owner of ''a handful'' of buildings in New York, said he has not felt the need to cut back. 
 ''I always feel like there's a sword of Damocles over my head, like it could all come crashing down at any time,'' he said. ''But there's always going to be people who are trading, and there's always going to be a demand for real estate in New York.''
 He is hardly alone in his eagerness to keep spending. Some businesses that cater to the superrich report that clients -- many of them traders and private equity investors whose work is tied to Wall Street -- are still splurging on multimillion-dollar Manhattan apartments, custom-built yachts, contemporary art and lavish parties.
 Buyers this year have already closed on 71 Manhattan apartments that each cost more than $10 million, compared with 17 apartments in that price range during all of 2007. Last week, a New York art dealer paid a record $1.6 million for an Edward Weston photograph at Sotheby's. And the GoldBar, a downtown lounge, reports that bankers continue to order $3,000 bottles of Remy Martin Louis XIII Cognac.
 ''When times get tough, the smart spend money,'' said David Monn, an event planner who is organizing a black-tie party on May 10 for dignitaries and recent purchasers of apartments at the Plaza Hotel; the average price there was $7 million. ''Short of our country going on food stamps, I don't think we're doing anything differently.''
 Some extreme spenders say they have not cut back on their impulse Bentley or apartment purchases because they have made so much money in the good times from the Internet, stock market and real estate. Some have been able to move their money into investments like private equity that are available only to those with extensive capital. Some rationalize cars and home renovations as ''investments.'' And some simply don't want to skimp on the weddings and anniversary parties that they see as milestone events.
 ''We're trying to spend on what we feel is important,'' said Victor Self, an executive with a fitness company who, with his partner, is planning to spend $100,000 on a commitment ceremony on St. Barts and a dessert party for 200 to 300 guests at Jeffrey, a clothing store in the meatpacking district. 
 Many economists warn that the nation's financial troubles may spread far more widely, and could ultimately touch even the wealthiest. The financial sector could lose as many as 20,000 jobs in New York City by the end of 2009, according to the city's Independent Budget Office. And at a March 18 policy meeting, Federal Reserve Board members raised the possibility of a ''prolonged and severe economic downturn,'' recently released minutes show. That threat has undoubtedly caused some affluent people to consider some degree of frugality. 
 But that still leaves plenty who are consuming away, and one of the things New Yorkers love to consume is real estate. In October, Marc Sperling, the 36-year-old president of an equity-trading company, bought a new condo on the Upper West Side in a building where four-bedroom apartments like his cost more than $4 million. When he moves into the completed building next year, he plans to hold on to his other two apartments in Murray Hill and Miami Beach -- each of which he values at about $2.5 million.
 Mr. Sperling views the nation's economic slump as a temporary problem, and is grateful that it has yet to affect him. ''I think if you have the means to ride it out, that's what you do,'' he said.
 His view of the subprime mortgage crisis seemed to reflect a sort of inverse class resentment. 
 ''I don't want to sound harsh, but the people who were buying million-dollar houses with a combined household income of $70,000 or $80,000 were the ones who were chasing easy money,'' he said.
 Days before the collapse of Bear Stearns, the bank's chairman, James E. Cayne, paid $25 million for a 14th-floor condo at the Plaza Hotel. 
 He, too, is invited to the May 10 party at the Plaza. It will feature a dozen female string musicians made up to look like statues and clothed in dresses of fresh flowers, like roses and gardenias. There will be caviar and Cognac bars, as well as a buffet designed to visually replicate 17th-century Dutch paintings from the recent Metropolitan Museum of Art exhibit, ''The Age of Rembrandt.'' 
 Even high-end rentals are going fast. In just the three weeks since it arrived on the market, a four-bedroom apartment at 15 Central Park West, advertised for $55,000 a month, has gone to contract. The broker, Roberta Golubock with Sotheby's International Realty, said she showed the apartment to eight financially qualified prospects.
 Some New Yorkers defend their spending as investments or gifts to themselves. In August, Karen Borkowsky and Robert Kennedy, a partner in a law firm, were married at the Rainbow Room. The reception, which the event planner, Shawn Rabideau, lavished with glass and calla lilies, cost $150,000 to $200,000. But when Ms. Kennedy considered that she had survived breast cancer and, at age 41, married a guy she had dated in high school, the wedding's cost seemed less exorbitant. Then, shortly after returning from their honeymoon, the couple started a $400,000 project to combine and restore two apartments into a three-bedroom, three-bath co-op on the Upper West Side. ''We are investing in the longevity of the apartment,'' she said.
 There are also some people who say they have not been hurt because they have poured so much money into opportunities not available to the Main Street investor. Paul Parmar, a 37-year-old investor in companies specializing in health care, defense, media, luxury items and private aviation, says he is living just as large as ever. 
 In recent months, Mr. Parmar, who lives in Colts Neck, N.J., said he bought 140 acres in Mineola, Tex., and is spending $20 million to begin building a refuge there for abused tigers. Since January, he said he added to his car collection with a $110,000 BMW 750 Li (for his girlfriend) and a Bentley Arnage for himself, for about $300,000. He is leasing a Maybach through Luxautica, an ''ultimate car club'' that has annual fees of about $125,000. 
 ''On a spending level,'' Mr. Parmar said, speaking about a possible recession, ''it doesn't affect me at all.'' That said, providers of luxury goods reported anecdotal evidence of a widening gap between the merely rich and the ultrarich. Clifford Greenhouse, who owns a household-staff employment company, said he suspects that the merely rich might be starting to lag behind their far richer counterparts, and are trimming their budgets. He cited reduced demand for chauffeurs -- a relatively small-ticket service -- yet ever-strong demand for private chefs, butlers and ''household managers.''
 Darren Sukenik, a real estate broker with Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that while business may be slower for clients with a mere million to spend on apartments, none of his clients with budgets of more than $2.5 million have stopped shopping. Seth Semilof, the publisher of Haute Living, a luxury magazine, said that luxury car dealerships that advertise with him are pushing Bentleys and Rolls-Royces at the expense of less-extravagant cars like the BMW 5 Series.
 ''If you look at the $20 million-plus market, it's still strong as ever,'' Mr. Semilof said. Some of the ultrarich are still willing to pay above sticker price for things they want badly enough. Mr. Semilof helped three buyers in the past two months acquire Rolls-Royce Phantom convertibles for as much as $200,000 above the asking price of $465,000. 
 And Eric Lepeingle, a yacht salesman for the Rodriguez Group, said that since January, three New Yorkers bought yachts worth $8 million to $35 million. Although the weak dollar does give some pause to buyers considering Italian-built yachts, Mr. Lepeingle said, they eventually give in. ''They want the product anyway,'' he said. 
 All sorts of products, actually. 
 ''They want their Jeroboam, or Methuselah, or Nebuchadnezzar,'' said Ronnie Madra, referring to the sizes of Champagne bottles served at 1OAK, a lounge on West 17th Street where he is a part-owner. A Nebuchadnezzar, weighing in at 15 liters, costs up to $35,000.
 There would be no Nebuchadnezzar for Mr. Tachman and his friends in Miami, but they soldiered on until the moment the wheels of their private jet returned to the tarmac in New York. 
 There were hand-rolled cigars, massages, guided rides in racing boats and fighter jets -- all arranged by In The Know Experiences, a travel and concierge service in Manhattan.
 ''It was just all out -- it was insane,'' said Mr. Tachman. ''I'm not afraid to spend money like that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paul Parmar, above, has added a BMW and a Bentley to his stable of cars in Colts Neck, N.J. At left, Karen Kennedy with her designer, Richard W. Gold. Ms. Kennedy is combining two apartments on the Upper West Side. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AARON HOUSTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); AUCTIONS (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



356 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Crisis Of Confidence

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The Survey Research Center of the University of Michigan has been tracking American economic perceptions since the 1950s. On Friday the center released its latest estimate of the consumer sentiment index -- and it was a stunner. Americans are more pessimistic about their situation than they have been for more than a quarter century.
 Meanwhile, a recent Pew report found that the percentage of Americans saying that they're better off than they were five years ago is at its lowest level in 44 years of polling. 
 What's striking about this bleak mood is that by the usual measures the economy isn't doing that badly -- at least not yet. In particular, the official unemployment rate of 5.1 percent, though rising, is still fairly low by historical standards. Yet economic attitudes are worse now than they were in 1992, when the average unemployment rate was 7.5 percent.
 Why are we feeling so down?
 Our bleakness partly reflects the fact that most Americans are doing considerably worse than the usual economic measures let on. The official unemployment rate may be relatively low -- but the percentage of prime-working-age Americans without jobs, which isn't the same thing, is historically high. Gross domestic product is up, but the inflation-adjusted income of the median family is probably lower than it was in 2000.
 Beyond that, perceptions of the current economy are strongly influenced by the public's sense of the larger pattern. 
 When Ronald Reagan famously asked, ''Are you better off than you were four years ago?,'' the correct answer was ''Yes.'' Median household income, adjusted for inflation, was higher in 1980 than it had been in 1976. But gas lines and double-digit inflation made people feel that things were falling apart.
 Conversely, unemployment was still historically high when Reagan proclaimed ''Morning in America.'' But people were ready to hear an upbeat message, because the economic storm seemed to have passed.
 More recently, economic confidence held up relatively well during the 2001 recession, maybe because people were willing to see it as no more than a temporary interruption of the great 1990s boom.
 A major reason we're feeling so down now is that for working Americans the boom never did come back. Job creation in the post-2001 recovery was pathetic by Clinton-era standards; wages barely kept up with inflation. Instead, corporate profits and the incomes of a tiny elite surged -- sucking up so much of the economy's growth that only crumbs were left for everyone else.
 Now the boom that wasn't has gone bust -- and Americans, understandably, have lost confidence in the prospects for a return to real prosperity.
 They have also, I'd suggest, lost confidence in the integrity of our economic institutions.
 Early this decade, when the great corporate scandals broke -- Enron, WorldCom, and so on -- I expected big-business corruption to become a major political issue. It didn't, partly because the march to war had the effect of changing the subject, partly, perhaps, because Americans weren't ready to take a broadly negative view of the system that brought them the previous decade's boom. 
 But my impression is that the subprime crisis -- with its revelation that titans of finance were dealing in funny money and its tales of failed executives receiving hundred-million-dollar going-away presents -- has resurrected the sense that something is rotten in the state of our economy. And this sense is adding to the general gloom.
 The question is, can the next administration end America's malaise?
 Some of the causes of poor economic performance since 2000 are probably beyond any administration's control. Raw materials were cheap in the 1990s, but in the years ahead the rise of China and other emerging economies will place increasing pressure on world supplies of oil, copper and so on, no matter what the next president does. 
 But reinvigorated regulation could help restore confidence to the financial system. A return to pro-labor policies could help raise real wages. Pro-competitive policies -- which are not the same thing as giving powerful businesses whatever they want -- could help America regain its leadership in information technology. In other words, there's a lot that could be done to perk up our sagging confidence.
 That won't happen, however, unless the next president is someone who understands what went wrong. And right now, that doesn't look at all certain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



357 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1693 words

HEADLINE: Union Killings Peril Trade Pact With Colombia

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Jenny Carolina Gonzalez contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia 

 BODY:
Lucy Gomez still shudders when speaking of the murder of her brother, Leonidas, a union leader and bank employee who was beaten and stabbed to death here last month. His murder was part of a recent increase in killings of union members in Colombia, with 17 already this year.
 ''I want those who did this to pay for their crime,'' said Ms. Gomez, 37, a seamstress, clutching a faded photograph of her brother, an employee of Citigroup's Colombian unit who was 42. ''But I feel in danger myself,'' she said. ''This is not a country where one can express such a wish without fear of being eliminated like my brother.''
 Ms. Gomez's fear and similar dread felt by union members and their families have long been features of labor organization during this country's four-decade civil war. More than 2,500 union members in Colombia have been killed since 1985, with fewer than 100 cases resulting in convictions, according to the National Labor School, a labor research group in Medellin. 
 Now those killings are emerging as a pressing issue in Washington as Democrats and Republicans battle over a trade deal with Colombia, the Bush administration's top ally in Latin America. 
 Colombia's government is already struggling to recover from the latest salvo in this fight, a vote by House Democrats on Thursday to snub President Bush and indefinitely delay voting on the deal.
 Since President Alvaro Uribe's conservative government took office in 2002, there has been a marked decline in union killings. That has accompanied a broader decline in overall murders and kidnappings as the civil war, between leftist rebels on one side and government forces and right-wing paramilitary groups on the other, has eased somewhat from its peak in the 1990s. 
 Still, 400 union members have been killed since 2002, and dozens of Mr. Uribe's supporters in Congress and his former intelligence chief are under investigation for ties to paramilitary death squads, which are classified as terrorists by the United States and responsible for some of the union killings. 
 Unions were often pulled into Colombia's war when faced with suspicions among paramilitaries that their ranks had been infiltrated with leftist guerrilla sympathizers. Or sometimes union members suffered simply because they opposed the paramilitaries' brutal assertion of control over large parts of Colombia. 
 In recent weeks a new wave of threats has emerged, from groups identifying themselves as a new generation of private armies, against human rights and labor organizers. Many of those organizers have opposed the trade deal, raising the specter of still more anti-union violence to come. 
 This year, 17 union members have been killed, a rate that suggests a substantial increase in anti-union violence compared with 10 such killings in the same period the year before. Several killings occurred in the days surrounding unusual protest marches against paramilitary forces here last month. 
 Complicating matters further, leftist guerrillas, who have sought to topple the government in Colombia's long war, have also made union officials targets for assassination. Union leaders who are in favor of the trade deal, largely from export-oriented industries, have suggested some of the recent killings may have been carried out by factions opposed to stronger trade ties with the United States.
 Some supporters of the trade deal are quick to point out that union members are still statistically less likely to be killed than members of the general population. But that ignores geographic and socioeconomic factors -- poor rural residents in the country's war zones bear a disproportionate risk from violence -- and it is clear that union officials continue to be specific targets for intimidation and violence.
 The case of Leonidas Gomez, Ms. Gomez's brother, is one of several examples of union officials killed in recent weeks who were involved in organizing rare protest marches last month against paramilitaries. Government investigators here said they were investigating all the recent killings but had not yet identified those responsible.
 Carlos Burbano was a vice president in the hospital workers' union of the municipality of San Vicente del Caguan in southern Colombia who disappeared March 9. His body was found four days later in a garbage dump in an area considered paramilitary territory. Mr. Burbano, who had received threats before from paramilitaries, had been stabbed multiple times and burned with acid. 
 Like Mr. Burbano, Mr. Gomez, a member of the Bank Workers' Union here in Bogota, was an outspoken critic of the paramilitaries. He had also traveled throughout Colombia to speak against the trade deal, which he expected to raise salaries of senior Citigroup executives while eroding the benefits of employees, said Luis Humberto Ortiz, a fellow union official and Citigroup employee.
 Mr. Gomez, last seen at a meeting with leftist politicians on the night of March 4, was found dead in his apartment on March 8, with stab wounds and his hands tied behind his back. Missing from his apartment were his laptop computer, U.S.B memory sticks and cash from his pockets, said his sister, Ms. Gomez. 
 Mr. Gomez's family and his colleagues from the Bank Workers' Union said they were convinced that he had been killed because of his union activities. But Maria Isabel Nieto, a vice minister of justice, said in an interview that investigators could not rule out a ''crime of passion.'' 
 Such uncertainty surrounds many union killings here, and critics of the unions insist that some of the killings are simple criminal cases rather than political violence. Union leaders say that despite a recent increase in murder convictions in cases involving union deaths, there are still relatively few convictions and that prison terms have been too lenient. 
 ''Colombia has a horrible record of bringing the vast majority of those responsible for these killings to justice,'' said Jose Miguel Vivanco, Americas Director for Human Rights Watch. 
 Some of the killings linger over commercial ties with the United States, Colombia's largest trading partner. Paramilitaries, for instance, killed three union leaders in 2001 who were employed by Drummond Company, an Alabama coal producer with operations in northern Colombia. A jury in Birmingham, Ala., cleared Drummond last year of claims that it was responsible for the killings. 
 No one denies that assassinations of union members have dropped significantly from the 1990s, the worst years of Colombia's war, when more than 200 such killings a year were reported. 
 In 2007, union killings fell to 39 from 72 the previous year, according to the National Labor School in Medellin. They were expected to decline further this year until the recent spike in killings. (Figures from Colombia's government are often lower because of methods that refrain from including killings when motives are unclear; so far this year the government has counted 15 union killings compared with 17 documented by labor groups.) 
 ''We must remember that these killings are not a matter of state policy,'' Vice President Francisco Santos said in an interview here in March. ''On the contrary, we abhor these acts and are doing everything we can to bring the number down as low as possible,'' he said, citing an unprecedented increase in prosecutions of union killings in the past year. 
 For 2008, the government budgeted $45.7 million for protecting people at risk of assassination, of which about a third goes to threatened union members. Under the program, more than 200 unionists have armored cars or bodyguards, and more than 170 union buildingsand homes of union members have bulletproofing improvements. 
 Still, revelations of ties between the private militias and some of Mr. Uribe's most influential political supporters haunt official efforts to lower union killings. For instance, Jorge Noguera, Mr. Uribe's former intelligence chief, is under investigation for handing over lists to paramilitaries of union leaders and other left-wing figures who were singled out for assassination. 
 Widespread ambivalence, bordering at times on hostility, persists in Colombian society over the role of unions. Many Colombians still view unions as redoubts of privilege for union leaders at a time when the private sector is driving an economic boom, through exports of legal commodities like coal and illicit ones like cocaine. 
 ''Why don't the Democrats worry about Chinese products that take jobs away from Americans or about trade with countries with terrible human rights violations?'' asked Rafael Jordan Rueda, 54, a management consultant here. ''I'm completely convinced Colombia has become a victim of the struggle for power in the presidential elections in the United States.'' 
 Faced with the delays in Washington, senior government officials here are somewhat more cautious in expressing their shock at the possibility that Colombia might be denied the trade pact. ''If the United States takes the rug out from under us, we would look like imbeciles internally and in the region,'' Defense Minister Juan Manuel Santos said in an interview.
 El Espectador, an influential weekly newspaper in Bogota, said in an editorial on Sunday that such a move would be misguided. ''Blocking a tool like the free trade agreement, which seeks to foment development, does not seem like the best mechanism for defending Colombian trade unionists,'' the editorial said. Instead, the newspaper suggested redirecting American aid to strengthen the Colombian judicial system's investigations of human rights violations. 
 Still, for union leaders like Rafael Boada who are living with threats, the focus on political violence is welcomed as part of the debate over the trade pact. Mr. Boada, a bank employee in Bucaramanga in northeastern Colombia, escaped March 7 after two men on a motorcycle shot at him, their bullets lodging in the windshield of his car. 
 ''We are a stigmatized group,'' said Mr. Boada, explaining his role in helping to organize last month's march against paramilitaries. ''I am certain this happened because of my union activities.'' 

GRAPHIC: Lucy Gomez and Luis Humberto Ortiz recently discussed the killing of Ms. Gomez's brother. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT DALTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MURDER (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); LIBERALISM (87%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); DEATHS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); TERRORISM (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%); LABOR UNIONS (58%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (78%) COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



358 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: Co-Payments Go Way Up for Drugs With High Prices

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Health insurance companies are rapidly adopting a new pricing system for very expensive drugs, asking patients to pay hundreds and even thousands of dollars for prescriptions for medications that may save their lives or slow the progress of serious diseases.
 With the new pricing system, insurers abandoned the traditional arrangement that has patients pay a fixed amount, like $10, $20 or $30 for a prescription, no matter what the drug's actual cost. Instead, they are charging patients a percentage of the cost of certain high-priced drugs, usually 20 to 33 percent, which can amount to thousands of dollars a month.
 The system means that the burden of expensive health care can now affect insured people, too. 
 No one knows how many patients are affected, but hundreds of drugs are priced this new way. They are used to treat diseases that may be fairly common, including multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, hemophilia, hepatitis C and some cancers. There are no cheaper equivalents for these drugs, so patients are forced to pay the price or do without. 
 Insurers say the new system keeps everyone's premiums down at a time when some of the most innovative and promising new treatments for conditions like cancer and rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis can cost $100,000 and more a year. 
 But the result is that patients may have to spend more for a drug than they pay for their mortgages, more, in some cases, than their monthly incomes. 
 The system, often called Tier 4, began in earnest with Medicare drug plans and spread rapidly. It is now incorporated into 86 percent of those plans. Some have even higher co-payments for certain drugs, a Tier 5.
 Now Tier 4 is also showing up in insurance that people buy on their own or acquire through employers, said Dan Mendelson of Avalere Health, a research organization in Washington. It is the fastest-growing segment in private insurance, Mr. Mendelson said. Five years ago it was virtually nonexistent in private plans, he said. Now 10 percent of them have Tier 4 drug categories. 
 Private insurers began offering Tier 4 plans in response to employers who were looking for ways to keep costs down, said Karen Ignagni, president of America's Health Insurance Plans, which represents most of the nation's health insurers. When people who need Tier 4 drugs pay more for them, other subscribers in the plan pay less for their coverage.
 But the new system sticks seriously ill people with huge bills, said James Robinson, a health economist at the University of California, Berkeley. ''It is very unfortunate social policy,'' Dr. Robinson said. ''The more the sick person pays, the less the healthy person pays.'' 
 Traditionally, the idea of insurance was to spread the costs of paying for the sick. 
 ''This is an erosion of the traditional concept of insurance,'' Mr. Mendelson said. ''Those beneficiaries who bear the burden of illness are also bearing the burden of cost.''
 And often, patients say, they had no idea that they would be faced with such a situation.
 It happened to Robin Steinwand, 53, who has multiple sclerosis. 
 In January, shortly after Ms. Steinwand renewed her insurance policy with Kaiser Permanente, she went to refill her prescription for Copaxone. She had been insured with Kaiser for 17 years through her husband, a federal employee, and had had no complaints about the coverage.
 She had been taking Copaxone since multiple sclerosis was diagnosed in 2000, buying 30 days' worth of the pills at a time. And even though the drug costs $1,900 a month, Kaiser required only a $20 co-payment.
 Not this time. When Ms. Steinwand went to pick up her prescription at a pharmacy near her home in Silver Spring, Md., the pharmacist handed her a bill for $325. 
 There must be a mistake, Ms. Steinwand said. So the pharmacist checked with her supervisor. The new price was correct. Kaiser's policy had changed. Now Kaiser was charging 25 percent of the cost of the drug up to a maximum of $325 per prescription. Her annual cost would be $3,900 and unless her insurance changed or the drug dropped in price, it would go on for the rest of her life.
 ''I charged it, then got into my car and burst into tears,'' Ms. Steinwand said. 
 She needed the drug, she said, because it can slow the course of her disease. And she knew she would just have to pay for it, but it would not be easy.
 ''It's a tough economic time for everyone,'' she said. ''My son will start college in a year and a half. We are asking ourselves, can we afford a vacation? Can we continue to save for retirement and college?''
 Although Kaiser advised patients of the new plan in its brochure that it sent out in the open enrollment period late last year, Ms. Steinwand did not notice it. And private insurers, Mr. Mendelson said, can legally change their coverage to one in which some drugs are Tier 4 with no advance notice. 
 Medicare drug plans have to notify patients but, Mr. Mendelson said, ''that doesn't mean the person will hear about it.'' He added, ''You don't read all your mail.''
 Some patients said they had no idea whether their plan changed or whether it always had a Tier 4. The new system came as a surprise when they found out that they needed an expensive drug.
 That's what happened to Robert W. Banning of Arlington, Va., when his doctor prescribed Sprycel for his chronic myelogenous leukemia. The drug can block the growth of cancer cells, extending lives. It is a tablet to be taken twice a day -- no need for chemotherapy infusions.
 Mr. Banning, 81, a retired owner of car dealerships, thought he had good insurance through AARP. But Sprycel, which he will have to take for the rest of his life, costs more than $13,500 for a 90-day supply, and Mr. Banning soon discovered that the AARP plan required him to pay more than $4,000. 
 Mr. Banning and his son, Robert Banning Jr., have accepted the situation. ''We're not trying to make anybody the heavy,'' the father said.
 So far, they have not purchased the drug. But if they do, they know that the expense would go on and on, his son said. ''Somehow or other, myself and my family will do whatever it takes. You don't put your parent on a scale.'' 
 But Ms. Steinwand was not so sanguine. She immediately asked Kaiser why it had changed its plan.
 The answer came in a letter from the federal Office of Personnel Management, which negotiates with health insurers in the plan her husband has as a federal employee. Kaiser classifies drugs like Copaxone as specialty drugs. They, the letter said, ''are high-cost drugs used to treat relatively few people suffering from complex conditions like anemia, cancer, hemophilia, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis and human growth hormone deficiency.'' 
 And Kaiser, the agency added, had made a convincing argument that charging a percentage of the cost of these drugs ''helped lower the rates for federal employees.''
 Ms. Steinwand can change plans at the end of the year, choosing one that allows her to pay $20 for the Copaxone, but she worries about whether that will help. ''I am a little nervous,'' she said. ''Will the next company follow suit next year?''
 But it turns out that she won't have to worry, at least for the rest of this year.
 A Kaiser spokeswoman, Sandra R. Gregg, said on Friday that Kaiser had decided to suspend the change for the program involving federal employees in the mid-Atlantic region while it reviewed the new policy. The suspension will last for the rest of the year, she said. Ms. Steinwand and others who paid the new price for their drugs will be repaid the difference between the new price and the old co-payment.
 Ms. Gregg explained that Kaiser had been discussing the new pricing plan with the Office of Personnel Management over the previous few days because patients had been raising questions about it. That led to the decision to suspend the changed pricing system.
 ''Letters will go out next week,'' Ms. Gregg said.
 But some with the new plans say they have no way out.
 Julie Bass, who lives near Orlando, Fla., has metastatic breast cancer, lives on Social Security disability payments, and because she is disabled, is covered by insurance through a Medicare H.M.O. Ms. Bass, 52, said she had no alternatives to her H.M.O. She said she could not afford a regular Medicare plan, which has co-payments of 20 percent for such things as emergency care, outpatient surgery and scans. That left her with a choice of two Medicare H.M.O's that operate in her region. But of the two H.M.O's, her doctors accept only Wellcare. 
 Now, she said, one drug her doctor may prescribe to control her cancer is Tykerb. But her insurer, Wellcare, classifies it as Tier 4, and she knows she cannot afford it.
 Wellcare declined to say what Tykerb might cost, but its list price according to a standard source, Red Book, is $3,480 for 150 tablets, which may last a patient 21 days. Wellcare requires patients to pay a third of the cost of its Tier 4 drugs. 
 ''For everybody in my position with metastatic breast cancer, there are times when you are stable and can go off treatment,'' Ms. Bass said. ''But if we are progressing, we have to be on treatment, or we will die.''
 ''People's eyes need to be opened,'' she said. ''They need to understand that these drugs are very costly, and there are a lot of people out there who are struggling with these costs.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about a large increase in insurance co-payments for high-priced drugs misstated the way the multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone is administered. It is injected, not taken in pill form. 
An article on Monday about a large increase in insurance co-payments for high-priced drugs misstated the way the multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone is administered. It is injected, not taken in pill form. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robin Steinwand had been paying $20 a month for her multiple sclerosis drug, which she keeps in the refrigerator. When she went to pick up her prescription in January, it cost $325. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) CHART: COSTLIER PRESCRIPTIONS: Insurance companies have been adopting a pricing system for prescription drugs, often called Tier 4, in which patients pay 20 to 33 percent of the cost of certain highpriced drugs instead of a fixed fee for a prescription. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (90%); CANCER (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DRUG PRICES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (78%); ARTHRITIS (78%); MEDICARE (74%); HEPATITIS (73%); HEPATITIS C (73%); HEMOPHILIA (68%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



359 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CAIRO JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: A City Where You Can't Hear Yourself Scream

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
Egyptians in this capital city say it is harder and harder to be heard and to have a voice, but they are not talking politics. Well, not only politics.
 What they are talking about, or rather yelling about, is noise, the incredible background noise of a city crammed with 18 million people, and millions of drivers who always have one hand on the horn and a rules-free way of thinking.
 ''Whenever I talk to people, they always say, 'Why are you screaming?' '' said Salah Abdul Hamid, 56, a barber whose two-chair shop is on the corner of a busy street on the north side.
 Mr. Hamid was, of course, screaming. 
 It was 4 p.m. in Rhode al Farag, a typical Cairo neighborhood teeming with people and shops and cars and trucks and buses and horse-drawn carts. From his shop, the landscape of sound revealed a chorus of people struggling to make a living, trying to assert themselves in a city, and in a country, where they often feel invisible. 
 Noise -- outrageous, unceasing, pounding noise -- is the unnerving backdrop to a tense time in Egypt, as inflation and low wages have people worried about basic survival, prompting strikes and protests. We're not just talking typical city noise, but what scientists here say is more like living inside a factory.
 ''It's not enough to make you crazy, but it is very tiring,'' said Essam Muhammad Hussein, as he sat in a cracked plastic chair outside the corner food shop his family has owned for 50 years. He was shouting as he talked about the noise, though he did not seem to realize it.
 ''What are we going to do?'' he asked. ''Where is the way out?''
 This is not like London or New York, or even Tehran, another car-clogged Middle Eastern capital. It is literally like living day in and day out with a lawn mower running next to your head, according to scientists with the National Research Center. They spent five years studying noise levels across the city and concluded in a report issued this year that the average noise from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. is 85 decibels, a bit louder than a freight train 15 feet away, said Mustafa el Sayyid, an engineer who helped carry out the study.
 But that 85 decibels, while ''clearly unacceptable,'' is only the average across the day and across the city. At other locations, it is far worse, he said. In Tahrir Square, or Ramsis Square, or the road leading to the pyramids, the noise often reaches 95 decibels, he said, which is only slightly quieter than standing next to a jackhammer. 
 ''All of greater Cairo is in the range of unacceptable noise levels from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m.,'' Mr. Sayyid said.
 By comparison, normal conversation ranges from 45 to 60 decibels, a chain saw registers 100 decibels and a gunshot 140. Because the decibel scale is logarithmic, every 10 decibels equals a tenfold increase in intensity.
 Noise at the levels commonly found in Cairo affects the body. It can cause elevated blood pressure and other stress-related diseases. It can interfere with sleep, which almost always makes people more irritable. ''People need a chance to sleep, to have a chance to think, in quiet,'' said Dr. Nagat Amer, a physician and researcher with the national center.
 But quiet is in short supply, especially in densely packed neighborhoods like Rhode al Farag, where the streets are alive 24 hours a day with people struggling with one another to eke out a living. In the last six weeks, 11 people have been killed in fights in lines to buy some of the cheap subsidized bread many rely on to feed their families.
 While noise is never cited as a reason for the spasms of violence, it is a silent enemy that makes the pressures of life that much harder to cope with, people on the streets here said. 
 ''The noise bothers me and I know it bothers people,'' said Abdel Khaleq, driver of a battered black and white taxi, as he paused from honking his horn to stop for passengers.
 ''So why do you do it?'' he was asked.
 ''Well, to tell you I'm here,'' he said. ''There is no such thing as logic in this country.''
 And then he drove off, honking.
 In general terms, the noise is a symptom of an increasingly unmanageable city, crowded far beyond its original capacity, officials at the National Research Center said. The main culprit is the two million cars, and drivers who jam the city roads every day.
 But Egyptians also like to live loud, preferring community to private space, mourning a death and celebrating a wedding with a good dose of noise. Muezzins' calls to prayer wail from loudspeakers in the minarets of thousands of mosques in the city. The problem is there are more people now, more cars, more competition for a sale, more jockeying for a spot on the road. And with that much more, there is less consideration for the person behind or next door, social commentators said.
 ''We like to live our life with people around us -- there is no privacy,'' said Ahmed El-Kholei, a professor of urban planning at Monufiya University in the Nile Delta north of the city. ''This is not a bad thing in itself, but the way it is expressed is wrong. Before, when someone held a funeral, the neighbors would postpone a wedding out of consideration. Today, you see the funeral and the wedding all howling in the microphones at the same time.'' 
 Still, Egyptians do not, as a rule, complain about noise.
 ''What noise?'' asked Madbouly Omran, who has run a small nut stand on Rhode al Farag Street since 1970.
 The trucks rumbled by. A pickup truck hit its air horn. Taxis honked.
 Moustafa Abdel Aleem, who works in the booth with Mr. Omran, said, ''The noise is not something I want, but I can't do anything about it; it's forced on me.'' So he turned on the radio in search of a song he liked, and of course, turned the volume up.
 In a nation where about 40 percent of the population survives on about $2 a day, people understand the struggle to feed a family. In Rhode al Farag, men worked on cars in the street, butchered meat in the street, blasted radios and turned up television sets. Like shellshocked war veterans, residents sat out on the street, sipping tea, oblivious to the cacophony. 
 Even when it came to the shop run by Mahmoud Faheem, people did not complain. Mr. Faheem rents out concert-sized speakers, and he displayed his speakers on the street, offering the entire block a never ending thump-thump of dance music. ''Let him eat bread,'' said Atef Ali, 45, the owner of a food shop next door, using an Arabic phrase to explain why he did not complain, even while he detested the music.
 And so the people shout, and shrug. 
 They shout to be heard, and shrug because they say there is nothing they can do but join in, honking, banging, screaming, whatever they need to do to make it through the day -- or the intersection. The noise is the cause and the reaction, they say.
 ''Life is like this,'' said Ahmed Muhammad, 23, who makes his living delivering metal tanks of propane to homes. He hangs four tanks off the back of a rusted bicycle, then rides with one hand on the handlebars, the other slamming a wrench into one of the tanks to announce his arrival to the neighborhood. ''Making money is like this,'' he said. ''What am I going to do? This is how it is.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Salesmen shout in Cairo, where the noise is like living with a running lawn mower next to you. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 After five years of study, scientists concluded that the average noise in Cairo from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. is 85 decibels, a bit louder than a freight train only 15 feet away. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); TRAINS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) EGYPT (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); MIDDLE EAST (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



360 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1294 words

HEADLINE: A Bumper Crop Of Bureaucracy

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ESSEX, N.Y. 

 BODY:
When Salim B. Lewis and his wife, Barbara, began building three suburban-style homes in 2006 for the workers on their 1,200-acre organic farm here, they didn't realize they were wading into a regulatory brawl with the state that apparently set off an interagency dispute. 
 The farm, nestled in the Champlain Valley and not far from Montreal, is viewed by many as one of the most innovative in New York, an example of a successful agricultural enterprise and an asset in an economically depressed region.
 But in March, the Adirondack Park Agency, which has varying degrees of jurisdiction over the nearly 6 million-acre Adirondack Park, assessed a $50,000 civil penalty against the farm, equaling the second-largest fine the state agency had ever imposed. 
 While the Lewises had obtained local building permits, the park agency said that they failed to obtain permits from it, even though it had not sought permits for a house in three decades. Most farms in the area limit themselves to building mobile homes for migrant workers, and the agency had scant records that it had even required permits for those. Mr. Lewis, a former Wall Street investment executive, is most likely the only farmer in the region wealthy enough to build large, comfortable houses for his workers.
 Critics of the agency saw it as an odd position to take for a regulatory body with environmental concerns at its core. Should the Lewises sell their farm, as they have threatened to do, a developer could build 30 homes on the property. Local lawmakers called it an example of the park agency overreaching its authority.
 The long-running battle over the homes on the Lewis farm seems to have touched off an interagency squabble.
 In late November, Patrick Hooker, commissioner of the State Department of Agriculture and Markets, wrote a letter to Curt Stiles, the chairman of Adirondack Park Agency, stating that the department ''supports the Lewises' efforts in their attempt to provide modern, energy-efficient housing for their employees.'' He went on to argue that under state law, farm worker housing can be viewed as ''an agricultural structure and part of a 'farm operation,' '' a distinction that Mr. Lewis's lawyers argue would make it exempt from permit requirements. 
 Judith Enck, the deputy secretary for the environment, oversees both agencies. 
 ''I don't think there's a dispute between the two,'' she said in a recent interview. 
 ''Historically people don't like to be told what you can and can't do with your land,'' added Ms. Enck, a longtime environmental activist appointed by former Gov. Eliot Spitzer. ''The A.P.A. has been reasonable and sensible.''
 The Lewises have equipped their operation with technology that others farmers could never afford: cultivator shovels from Denmark, German-made harvesters and an innovative approach to drainage that involves global positioning systems that allow for planting weeks earlier than other farms in the region.
 ''His farm operation is very impressive and we do wish him all the success with that, but the agency feels he is required to get a permit,'' said Mark E. Sengenberger, the interim executive director for regulatory programs for the park agency. 
 Mr. Lewis said he feared that if the park agency was granted jurisdiction over his farm, he would be bombarded with permit requirements. Should that happen, he added, ''we're out of the farming business.''
 ''No other farmer can fight it,'' he said, referring to the agency ''All of them have told me you're the only guy who can fight this.''
 Peter Gregg, a spokesman for the State Farm Bureau, which lobbies on behalf of farmers, called the fine ''totally unprecedented.''
 ''There's other jurisdictions that have tried to impose their regulations on our farms, but I don't think we've ever come across anything this extreme,'' he added. 
 In a recent interview, Mr. Hooker, of the Department of Agriculture and Markets, played down his department's role.
 ''There's a discussion going on between the A.P.A. and the Lewises that has nothing to do with this agency,'' Mr. Hooker said, adding that he had let the matter drop after speaking to Mr. Stiles of the park agency last December. ''We're all on the same page,'' he said. 
 But he conceded that he had forgotten that he had written another letter in February, this time to the Lewises -- a formal opinion that appeared to take their side. The letter stated that ''the use of the land in question for the siting and construction of farm worker housing is agricultural in nature.''
 Complicating the situation is Mr. Lewis's habit of speaking his mind frequently and loudly. Friends say he is brilliant with a strong sense of charity, but is unable to edit himself and has exasperated many people. 
 The Lewises first bought land in the area in the late 1970s and gradually bought adjoining farms. Their farm, on which they raise grass-fed cattle and a variety of crops, is now one of the largest organic farms in the state. 
 Mr. Lewis ran the investment firm, S. B. Lewis & Company, until he was prosecuted in the late 1980s for trading violations, though questions have been raised over the years about the case. Mr. Lewis was unconditionally pardoned by President Bill Clinton, and in 2006 a federal judge took the rare step of clearing the way for him to return to Wall Street by vacating an injunction against him. 
 Today he can talk about weed control as easily as the subprime mortgage meltdown. Mr. Lewis has an absolutist approach to organic purity, going so far as burying the electrical lines around his farm and surrounding his fields with several miles of roads, set deep into the earth, to improve drainage and keep workers off the soil. He says he needs the houses to attract quality workers -- his farm manager, Marco Turco, has a Ph.D. in agroecology from the University of Madrid.
 Last Friday, a State Supreme Court justice, Richard B. Meyer, granted a stay of most of the agency's enforcement actions, and wrote in his decision that ''the petitioner has established a likelihood of success on the merits on at least some issues raised.''
 The case highlights tensions between the park agency and people in the area. 
 ''If Mr. Lewis doesn't win this case, he says he's going to leave,'' said Assemblywoman Teresa R. Sayward, a Republican from Essex County. ''Then it will go to development, and we don't need that. It will probably go to second homes, which people come up here to use only part of the year.''
 But John F. Sheehan, a spokesman for the Adirondack Council, an environmental group, said that the park agency had to ensure that ''violators don't profit from their unlawful actions.'' 
 Anita Deming, the executive director of the local Cornell Cooperative Extension, said the farm is ''exactly what we really want to have in our county.''
 ''He attracts a lot of interns and students that want to learn about organic agriculture,'' she added. ''It's really nice to have someone who's teaching other people how to do it.''
 Officials at the park agency appeared to be unclear if the action they were taking was setting a precedent. Cecil Wray, the commissioner who presides over the agency's enforcement committee, could not recall if the Adirondack Park Agency had ever required a farmer to have a housing permit. 
 ''I can't answer the question,'' said Mr. Wray, a Manhattan lawyer. ''I simply don't know if we've had applications for those or not. Not in my memory, but my memory is fallible.''
 After a search, the agency found records of two permits that had been issued to farmers for housing in the last 30 years, including one for mobile homes. 
 ''I don't think we're looking to send a message,'' Ms. Enck said. ''We're looking to have the law complied with.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Essex, N.Y., Salim B. Lewis has created what some regard as one of the most innovative organic farms in the state. However, Mr. Lewis, left, has threatened to sell his farm during a dispute with a government agency over building permits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
In a region where most farms have mobile homes for their workers, Salim B. Lewis built three suburban-style houses.
 Barbara and Salim Lewis started buying land in Essex in the late 1970s, and they now raise cattle and crops on 1,200 acres. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) MAP: Essex, N.Y., is about 80 miles south of Montreal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); FARM LABOR (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); BUILDING PERMITS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); LAWYERS (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



361 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: Dirty Job, But Someone Has to Do It

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Go to a nondescript office building on the East side of Manhattan, down the hall to a door already in the clutches of a fake dismembered hand, and you will find the newsroom of The Smoking Gun. The take-no-prisoners Web site at thesmokinggun.com is in the midst of spilling affidavits in a Texas polygamy case and recently pushed The Los Angeles Times to retract a major article about the murder of Tupac Shakur by pointing out that it was based on fake documents. 
 The site also debunked James Frey's memoir, revealed Bill O'Reilly's specific fascination with loofahs, and is about to publish a major investigative article about a ''well-known platinum-selling artist,'' replete with mug shots and police reports. 
 Open that door -- ''Don't mind the hand,'' advises one of the guys who works there -- and you will find a bigger-than-life poster of the former N.F.L. quarterback Michael Vick. And three guys sitting at computers. 
 Much has been said, here and elsewhere, about how the emerging digital economy has decimated the business model of journalism. But the same digital technology has made each remaining journalist several times more powerful. 
 As working reporters, we are able to get information -- through the public and government Web databases and proprietary digital sources -- that our ancestors in the business would not have dared dream of. I know because I'm one of the ancestors. 
 The Smoking Gun, a part of Turner Broadcasting System Inc., a Time Warner company, is the happy byproduct of that revolution. To the delight of an average four million unique visitors a month, its staff ferrets out contract riders, embarrassing civil filings, and police reports that read as if the crime fiction writer James Ellroy wrote them. Last month, it had 58 million page views (thanks again, Mr. Spitzer). I briefly thought of asking them to look up my own history -- criminal and otherwise -- but that seemed too easy.
 It's disconcerting to a see a news brand as robust and well-known as The Smoking Gun run by a staff of three people: the editor, William Bastone, a veteran Mafia reporter who used to work at The Village Voice; Andrew Goldberg, managing editor, and Joseph Jesselli, reporter and Web master, who also worked at The Voice. 
 Mr. Bastone said most people writing on the Web are most interested in its characteristics as a megaphone, as opposed to the toolbox it contains for practicing journalism.
 ''Name me a Web site that does original reporting. There aren't many,'' he said. Mr. Bastone is a low-key man who does not seem like the kind of guy who would be breaking big stories about Mafia figures, but he remains surprised that very little digital shoe leather is being expended, given the opportunities. 
 ''It is beyond night and day from just 15 years ago in terms of reporting,'' he said, shaking his head.'' When I think about how many hours -- hundreds of days, really -- I spent in records offices looking for stuff I can just get on my desktop, it drives me crazy.''
 While Mr. Bastone and his fellow pirates do some long-running stories, much of what they do involved obtaining the ''get'' -- the lawsuit, the arrest photo, the private memo -- and slapping it up on the Web for all to see, never mind months of investigation or meetings with editors. 
 That approach can never replace the kind of reporting that resulted in Pulitzer Prizes last week for The Washington Post's investigation of mistreatment of veterans at Walter Reed or The New York Times series on toxic products from China. 
 But The Smoking Gun has demonstrated that if you obey the metabolism of the Web, not the journalist, you can land with significant impact in a hurry. 
 ''I think one of the keys is that we are three people,'' said Mr. Bastone, who founded the site with Daniel Green, another Voice alumnus who has since moved on to truTV at Turner, and Barbara Glauber, Mr. Bastone's wife and the designer of the site. 
 The kind of guy who can get fired up about a tattered, vintage mug shot of David Bowie, Mr. Bastone did not bring a lot of Web savvy to the enterprise when he started it back in 1997 while he was still working at The Voice. 
 ''I didn't even have an e-mail address,'' he said. ''I sent out the news about the site on a fax machine. I wonder what the guys at Wired thought when my press release came by fax.''
 Yet The Smoking Gun has managed to prevail on a road that is littered with carcasses. It is the tiniest news staff in the Time Warner empire, but truTV, formerly Court TV, uses The Smoking Gun name to brand a television show: ''The Smoking Gun Presents: World's Dumbest,'' the leading show on the network. Several specials stamped with the logo ran on Adult Swim, part of the Cartoon Network. 
 It ain't Frontline, but the viewers show up.
 ''Their secret sauce is the ability to source documents that no one else can get,'' said Steve Koonin, president of Turner Entertainment Networks, which inherited the site when it bought Court TV. ''It's not a big business, but it's profitable, and one of the things we are diligent about is the care and feeding of brands. Young people respond to this brand on TV and on the Web.''
 (Despite the corporate synergy, the site shows no favors. Last year, when Chris Albrecht, then head of Time Warner's HBO, was picked up in Las Vegas and accused of assaulting his girlfriend, he got a ride through the spanking machine, replete with a scary mug shot and a brutally detailed police report.)
 Working at The Smoking Gun seems a fairly solitary existence, with the staff of three grinding away on computers, but there are breaks in the action. Last Thursday, Thomas Riccio, the ex-con who recorded the O. J. Simpson memorabilia bust, stopped by to chat. The site laid him out in 2007 -- ''Meet Thomas Riccio: Arsonist, prison escapee, stolen goods dealer'' -- but there were no hard feelings. He used the mug shot they had unearthed for the cover of the book he is pushing. 
 Mr. Bastone, who sold out to what was then Court TV for an undisclosed sum in 2000, said the idea for the site was his fascination with rummaging around courthouses and city property records and a notion that it might attract an online audience. Nowadays, that obsession finds expression on his desktop. 
 ''Sitting here, we can monitor cases and filings as if we were sitting in the courtroom,'' he said. 
 So far, the Smoking Gun crew is still doing the most looking.
 ''We figure that people who come to the site sort of get it; we consider them to be sophisticated and in on the joke,'' said Mr. Goldberg. ''But I would never have thought this far down the road that we would be all alone.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The Media Equation column on Monday, about the Web site The Smoking Gun, which broke the story that The Los Angeles Times relied on fraudulent documents for an article on a 1994 assault on the rapper Tupac Shakur, misstated the nature of the assault. Mr. Shakur was shot five times; he was not murdered. (He died in September 1996 of multiple gunshot wounds suffered in a drive-by shooting.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (87%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (74%); COUNTERFEITING (73%); POLYGAMY (71%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (72%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: BILL O'REILLY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



362 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Bond Trader to Sell Rare Stamps for Charity

BYLINE: By MATTHEW HEALEY

 BODY:
Bill Gross, the billionaire bond trader who has also acquired a reputation as a shrewd trader of rare stamps, will auction the Scandinavian portion of his international collection May 16 to benefit charity. 
 It will be the second time Mr. Gross will have sold a portion of his collection for charity. In June 2007, he auctioned his British stamps; he and his wife, Sue, then donated the entire proceeds, $9.1 million, to Doctors Without Borders.
 The recipient this time will be the Millennium Villages Project at the Earth Institute at Columbia. According to Dr. Jeffrey Sachs, the director of the Earth Institute, the money will be used to expand the program's activities in Africa, which include fighting malaria, building schools and clinics, increasing food production and ensuring safe water supplies.
 The sale will be conducted in New York by Spink Shreves Galleries, and projected proceeds are estimated to be more than $1 million; the British collection sold last year brought about double its estimate. Tracy Shreve, who will call the auction, said that bidders might be more competitive because the proceeds were going to charity.
 Mr. Gross's Scandinavian collection includes more than 100 19th century and early 20th century rarities, including one-of-a-kind pieces that have been part of famous collections in the past. 
 They include a block of four of Finland's first stamps, issued in 1856, with two of the stamps inverted in relation to the other two. That item alone is expected to bring $100,000 to $150,000. Other rarities include an Icelandic 5-aur stamp from 1897 with a provisional overprint. The stamp was made in very small quantities when the regular 3-aur stamps ran out, and is the only mint example known to remain.
 On Friday, Mr. Gross called stamps an ''authentic collectible,'' established over time and appreciating at least at the same rate as the local economy, 5 to 6 percent a year. ''You don't get rich, but you do have some fun,'' he said.
 Mr. Gross noted that during the period when he bought many of his rarities, beginning in the early 1990s, prices were low. He said that while there have probably been better times than the present to find rarities at good prices, ''collectors in their 40s and 50s and 60s don't have time to wait around.''
 Mr. Gross said that he also intends to sell his collections of Swiss and Canadian stamps in the near future. He said that, for the time being, he will keep his award-winning United States collection, the only one in the world known to include one of every stamp variety issued by the United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The 3 rir overprint uses a special letter called a thorn. The word is pronounced ''threer.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPINK SHREVES GALLERIES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (90%); CHARITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); MALARIA (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (57%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



363 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2140 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: April 14, 2008

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 OPPOSITION IN ZIMBABWE
 Hopes for Court's Help
 Court decisions this week could reshape the political opposition's electoral stalemate with the governing party of President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe. The High Court is expected to rule on an opposition demand that the results of the presidential election held two weeks ago be released immediately and to consider whether to allow a recount that the governing party has sought in 23 constituencies. PAGE A8 
 A POLITICAL RALLYING IN MALAYSIA
 The Malaysian opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim, once imprisoned and all but written off by the country's political elite, will celebrate his political rehabilitation at a soccer stadium on Monday. A ban on his holding public office will expire, opening the door for a run for prime minister that, if successful, will cap his remarkable comeback. PAGE A10 
 U.S. OFFICIAL FAULTS OLYMPIC STANCE
 A top White House official criticized foreign leaders planning to skip the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games in Beijing, calling United States efforts for diplomacy more effective. And former President Jimmy Carter, who knows something about Olympics boycotts, said he hoped all countries would participate in the Games. PAGE A6 
 SKEPTICAL ITALIANS CAST BALLOTS
 Voting for prime minister began in Italy, with enthusiasm notably lacking. The conservative billionaire Silvio Berlusconi is seeking a third term, running against Walter Veltroni, a former mayor of Rome. Italians normally vote in high numbers, and often -- choosing more than 60 governments since World War II -- but the campaign has been considered lackluster, and voters skeptical of change. PAGE A9 
 Seal Hunt Protesters Freed A13
 Iran Death Toll Rises A13 
 China and Taiwan Ease Tensions A12 
 NATIONAL
 ANSWERING A QUESTION
 By Deflecting It
 The question buzzing around Michael A. Nutter, Philadelphia's new mayor, is why he does not support the presidential candidate wildly popular among his constituents, Senator Barack Obama. It is a question, he suggests, that seems to be reserved for black politicians, raising one of his own: Why? PAGE A20
 LAMA REPORTS 'EFFORTS' WITH CHINA
 The Dalai Lama said that ''some efforts'' at diplomacy were under way between his representatives and those of the Chinese government, adding that it wasn't clear what might be accomplished. He would not say specifically what matters were being discussed, but did say he had not been directly involved in the conversations. PAGE A14
 INSPIRING A PILGRIMAGE
 Pope Benedict's travels to the United States are prompting travels across the United States -- including those of the Pequeno family of Spring, Tex., and 14 of their neighbors, who are packing into two vans for their 1,600-mile pilgrimage. ''We don't know if we'll ever see Benedict up close,'' one neighbor said. But, she added, ''Somehow the word he says is going to reach us.'' PAGE A19
 AIRLINE MERGER TALKS HEAT UP
 Merger talks between Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines picked up pace again, and people briefed on the negotiations said an announcement of a deal could come as soon as Tuesday. A merger has seemed close several times in recent months, followed by the companies' backing away. PAGE A14 
 THE COSTS OF WAR
 The issue of the Iraq war's financial costs crop up on the campaign trail from time to time, with predictable differences. Senator John McCain says success in Iraq is worth whatever price, while Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton talk about what the money could be buying instead. PAGE A21 
 The Caucus A20 
 Immigrant Crackdowns Questioned A17 
 METRO
 WEST SIDE PROJECT DRAGS,
 But Some See a Silver Lining
 The economic slowdown and logistical problems have put a damper on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's ambitious plan to redesign the West Side of Manhattan. But some urban planners say the slowdown provides an opportunity to reconsider the way the West Side can be developed, like block-by-block growth instead of a massive investment of public money. PAGE A24 
 FIGHTING OVER A FARM'S TURF
 An organic farm in the Champlain Valley, considered by many to be one of the most innovative and successful in New York, is embroiled in a dispute with a state park agency. At issue is whether the couple who own and run the farm could build three suburban-style homes for their workers on their land. The agency says the farm needs permits to do so -- and imposed a $50,000 fine. The couple say the agency hadn't required such permits in decades, and that it is overstepping its authority. PAGE A25 
 PUNCH LINES AND DENTURE CREAM
 Dick Cavett said that he saw the comedian Irwin Corey performing in the 1950's. ''And I thought he was old then,'' he joked. At 93, Mr. Corey is still performing, and is a staple at the Friars Club. Someone recently told him that while they hadn't seen Mr. Corey in three decades, the comedian hadn't changed at all. ''You mean to say I looked like this 30 years ago?'' Mr. Corey retorted. PAGE A24 
 IN '09: BLOOMBERG FOR MAYOR?
 Could Michael R. Bloomberg be considering a third term as mayor? For that idea to be possible, the mayor would have to have a law on mayoral term limits repealed. But the question alone has helped fuel buzz about his next move, and one political consultant said Mr. Bloomberg isn't a lame duck if people think another term is on the table. PAGE A25 
 BUSINESS
 CRACKDOWN ON THE STREET CAUSES 
 DVD Piracy to Thrive on Internet
 Fans of pirated DVDs of first-run movies are having a harder time finding them on the streets of New York City, thanks to an initiative by the mayor to stem bootlegs and counterfeits. But worldwide and on the Internet, pirated DVDs remain, many of them quite amateurish reproductions. PAGE C7
 NEW JOURNALISM
 They're the online folks who pushed The Los Angeles Times to retract a major article about the murder of Tupac Shakur and revealed Bill O'Reilly's specific fascination with loofahs, among other scoops, David Carr writes. And while The Smoking Gun may not be doing the kind of investigations winning Pulitzers, he adds, it ''has demonstrated that if you obey the metabolism of the Web, not the journalist, you can land with significant impact in a hurry.'' PAGE C1
 WINNING THE P.R. BATTLE
 When China was awarded the Olympic Games, the people at Students for a Free Tibet at first despaired. Then they realized the opportunity to present their cause on a grand stage, and started putting together a public relations strategy. The results have been pretty obvious. PAGE C1 
 TAILORING SEARCH SERVICES
 A new search engine, Rushmore Drive, is set up to deliver information its providers hope is more relevant to black users. It could be the first of what will most likely be more ethnically focused search sites, a strategy analysts say is the latest effort to take on Google's dominance in the search market. PAGE C6
 Writing 200,000 (Different) Books C1
 Saving Linens 'n Things C1
 The McCain Girls C5
 ARTS
 FANCIFUL IN SERVICE
 Of the Spiritual
 Philip Glass's ''Satyagraha'' ''is more a musical ritual than a traditional opera,'' Anthony Tommasini writes in his review. And those who take it in would benefit from a familiarity with Mohandas K. Gandhi's activities in South Africa from 1893 to 1914. But all in all, the opera ''emerges here as a work of nobility, seriousness, even purity,'' he adds. PAGE B1 
 CHECKMATE BY LEONARDO?
 An Italian artist and sculptor who has studied diagrams in a 500-year-old chess book proclaims them as having been designed by Leonardo da Vinci. Fat chance, says a Leonardo expert and emeritus professor of art history at Oxford. Theissue is unresolved. (No word on what Dan Brown thinks.) PAGE B5 
 SISTERS WITH A PEDIGREE
 The author of ''Three Girls and Their Brother,'' which Janet Maslin calls ''an amusing if one-note debut novel,'' admits that among her inspirations was a picture of Paris and Nicky Hilton. If that sounds like more than you want to know, consider this twist: the ''Three Girls'' are the granddaughters of a famous intellectual. PAGE B7 
 TESTING BOUNDARIES
 Episodes of two NBC comedies had wink-and-nod references to a vulgarity Thursday night in a time period a network executive has designated the ''family hour.'' Well, another executive said in explanation, family hour ain't what it used to be. Especially on Thursday nights. PAGE B2 
 ON MARRIAGE TO LADY MACBETH
 Lady Macbeth, which is to say the actress Kate Fleetwood, was among those who looked forward to certain tweaks in ''Macbeth'' when the production moved from the Brooklyn Academy of Music to a smaller, more intimate Broadway stage. ''But the director disagreed,'' she says. The director, Rupert Goold, rolls his eyes upon hearing her, as if to say, Actors. Or, perhaps, Wives. PAGE B1 
 New CDs: Mariah Carey B1 
 Faces of the Kirov B3 
 A Fire Ignited by the Nazis B1 
 OBITUARIES
 JOHN WHEELER, 96
 A visionary physicist and teacher, he helped invent the theory of nuclear fission, gave black holes their name and argued about the nature of reality with Albert Einstein and Niels Bohr. ''For me, he was the last Titan, the only physics superhero still standing,'' said Max Tegmark, a cosmologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. PAGE A23
 SPORTS
 IN ONLY HIS THIRD MARATHON, 
 An American Impresses in London
 Ryan Hall, a 25-year-old from Southern California, recorded the second-fastest time by an American marathoner in history at the 28th London Marathon. He was doing so well, he asked the pacesetters to speed up a little, and they obliged -- promptly leaving him behind. ''I thought: 'This is a classic move. I tell the pacemakers to go faster and they drop me,' '' he joked. And though Hall finished sixth, it was only his third race, but an important one as he prepares for the Olympics in Beijing. PAGE D1 
 YOUR MOVE, RED SOX NATION
 The Yankees president called it a ''bad, dastardly act'': a construction worker helping build the new Yankee Stadium -- who also happened a Boston Red Sox fan -- put a Red Sox jersey into the cement mix so that it would be buried at the new stadium's site. Team officials found out and attended an ''excavation ceremony'' to remove the jersey, which they will place in a display case along with a Yankees T-shirt, and send to Boston to be auctioned for charity. PAGE D7
 COMPLICATING THE DERBY
 Synthetic surfaces were added to horse tracks in an effort to reduce on-track injuries and fatalities, but they also have a side effect that complicates matters for handicappers of the coming Kentucky Derby: how will a horse's performance on the synthetics translate when it returns to the traditional dirt of the derby? PAGE D8
 DUFFERS OF THE WORLD, UNITE
 Average recreational golfers play off the tee better than they realize, but they don't know what to do after that. In a new weekly golfing presentation, Bill Pennington gets tips from golf coaches for players who will never don a green jacket. PAGE D4 
 A GRITTY RED SOX LEADER
 Jason Varitek is in the final year of a four-year, $40 million deal, so he's going to find out whether the Red Sox value him as highly as the Yankees did Jorge Posada with his four-year, $52.4 million contract. PAGE D1
 EDITORIAL
 FORECLOSURE POLITICS
 At least 100,000 more families are likely to lose their homes to foreclosure before Congress passes a relief bill. And even then, the measure may fail to stanch the problem. To produce a worthy relief measure, lawmakers will first have to scrap most of the provisions in a bill passed last week by the Senate. PAGE A26
 THE DANGERS IN PRE-EMPTION
 The pharmaceutical industry and its good friends in the Bush administration are working hard to prevent consumers from filing damage suits for injuries caused by federally approved drug products -- and they may soon get a helping hand from the Supreme Court. If that happens, the public will be deprived of a vital tool for policing companies. PAGE A26
 HOW TO JUDGE A WOULD-BE JUSTICE
 We have worried, especially in recent years, that Supreme Court nominees are far too carefully packaged and coached on how to duck all of the hard questions at their confirmation hearing. A new study supports our fears. PAGE A26
 OP-ED
 WILLIAM KRISTOL
 Barack Obama let his mask slip recently, with his talk of Americans who ''cling to guns or religion'' or other attitudes because of economic frustration. That suggests a disdain for his fellow Americans that endangers his presidential prospects. Voters are unlikely to support a candidate who seems to patronize them. PAGE A27
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Why are Americans feeling so bleak about the economy? Partly because they're facing a bust without ever having experienced a boom. And they've also lost confidence in the integrity of our economic institutions. PAGE A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MAYORS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); BOYCOTTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); SOCCER (69%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); DALAI LAMA (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); ROME, ITALY (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) ZIMBABWE (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



364 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: New Cabinet Announced In Kenya

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN; Kennedy Abwao contributed reporting.

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya 

 BODY:
President Mwai Kibaki announced a new -- and enormous -- national unity cabinet here on Sunday, ending weeks of anxious deadlock that had threatened to plunge Kenya back into violence.
 Allies of Mr. Kibaki, who was declared the winner of a deeply flawed election in December, retained the most powerful ministries, like finance and foreign affairs, but the leading opposition party managed to get some major posts, including local government and agriculture. 
 And as anticipated, the top opposition leader, Raila Odinga, who claims to have won the presidential vote, was appointed prime minister. 
 The two sides were under mounting pressure from foreign governments, especially the United States, and from Kenyans to strike a deal that would end the bitter, and often dangerous, atmosphere that has hung over the country since December.
 While the voting itself went peacefully, the country exploded in violence afterward with supporters of the government and of the opposition raging against each other. More than 1,000 people were killed, hundreds of thousands were displaced and Kenya's image as one of Africa's most stable and promising countries was seriously damaged.
 In late February, the government and the opposition agreed to share power, but they haggled over who would be selected for each post.
 On Sunday, it took Mr. Kibaki more than 10 minutes to read aloud the list of ministers and assistant ministers, totaling 94 people, nearly half of Parliament. It is the biggest cabinet Kenya has ever had. 
 Because of all the politicking and the need to placate various interest groups, Mr. Kibaki has created several new, highly paid positions, like the minister of development of northern Kenya and other arid lands. Trade organizations and human rights groups have roundly criticized adding those positions as inefficient and wasteful, especially when thousands of displaced Kenyans are still living in tents. 
 Mr. Kibaki defended the expanded cabinet as crucial for Kenya's development.
 ''Let us put politics aside and get to work,'' he said in a televised address on Sunday. ''Let us build a new Kenya where justice is our shield and defender, and where peace, liberty and plenty will be found throughout our country.''
 The opposition party said it was disappointed that it had not gotten as many powerful positions as it wanted.
 ''But we decided that it was more important to get a government in place,'' said Salim Lone, Mr. Odinga's spokesman. ''There was too much chaos and hunger and restlessness in the country.''
 Opposition supporters who said they were angry about the delay in forming a cabinet rioted in several towns across Kenya last week, and Mr. Lone credited that outburst with moving the process along.
 ''The international pressure had been there for some time, and the riots really focused our minds on how fragile things were,'' he said. Mr. Lone said the deal was sealed in a secret seven-hour meeting on Saturday between Mr. Kibaki and Mr. Odinga. 
 The cabinet faces a mountain of challenges and needs. Kenya, after all, is a relatively poor country, with a fast-growing population, exploding slums and diminishing available land. In addition, the election stirred long-simmering grievances, which violently split many parts of the country down ethnic lines. 
 There was also direct economic damage from the fighting, with countless homes, businesses, factories and schools burned to the ground, investor confidence low and Kenya's fabled safari business on its knees.
 So it is no surprise that many Kenyans doubt that the cabinet deal will be a cure-all. While jubilation greeted the power-sharing agreement in February, with crowds cheering in the streets, this time the mood was more muted and even skeptical.
 ''I don't see this lasting long,'' said Wambua Kilonzo, a lawyer in Nairobi, the capital. ''There's been too much bad blood already. Everything that has been done so far has only been done by the force of the arm.''
 What seemed to irk people most was the size of the cabinet.
 ''We have been duped,'' said Simoni Birundu, national chairman of the Name and Shame Corruption Networks Campaign, a nonprofit group. ''We needed a lean cabinet so that it does not consume all our national resources.''
 Maina Kiai, chairman of the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, called the bloated cabinet ''an insult.''
 ''The politicians are not interested in us,'' he said. ''They're interested in themselves. We go begging for money from other countries to feed our children. And then we use our taxpayers' money to buy big houses and limousines. Here we are talking about a new Kenya. But instead of going forward, we're going backward.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lucy Gomez and Luis Humberto Ortiz recently discussed the killing of Ms. Gomez's brother.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT DALTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); RIOTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); ELECTION FRAUD (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: MWAI KIBAKI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (73%) KENYA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



365 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: New Bloomberg Job Rumor Is Followed by a Denial

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
The political future of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been the subject of relentless speculation for months. First he was said to have been flirting with a presidential bid. Then his name was floated as a possible running mate of Senator Barack Obama.
 Now, Mr. Bloomberg is rumored to be eyeing a third mayoral term. And just as with the earlier rumors, City Hall aides have issued firm denials about this one. 
 ''It's untrue,'' Stu Loeser, the mayor's press secretary, said in an interview on Sunday.
 The idea of the mayor's considering running for a third term in next year's election was reported by The New York Post on Sunday. 
 For Mr. Bloomberg to remain as mayor for another four years, he would first have to win the repeal of a law that limits citywide elected officials to two consecutive terms in office. The law could be altered or eliminated in two ways: through a City Council bill or through a voter referendum, which is how it came to be. Mr. Loeser, however, said that the mayor ''believes in term limits and he is not going to seek a third term.'' 
 The discussion adds to the buzz about what is next for the mayor after his second four-year term in office. So far, Mr. Bloomberg has been somewhat vague about his post-mayoralty plans. He has said that he will run a foundation to focus on his charitable works.
 George Arzt, a political consultant who was press secretary to Mayor Edward I. Koch, said that regardless of its truth, floating a rumor about Mr. Bloomberg's interest in running for a third term ''is not bad political strategy.''
 ''He's no longer a lame duck if he's out there fighting for a third term, or at least giving the impression that he would fight for the third term,'' Mr. Arzt said.
 The prospect of a third term would give Mr. Bloomberg more control over his legacy, Mr. Arzt said. It could allow him to recover from recent setbacks like the defeat of the congestion pricing plan in Albany and delays in projects like the Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn because of the economic downturn.
 Mr. Bloomberg has been a firm and consistent opponent of extending term limits for local elected officials, including himself. He used his veto power six years ago on a measure to revise term limits for some City Council members and give them an extra two years in office -- though the Council overrode the veto, on a 47-to-2 vote. 
 The Council continued to hold internal discussions about term limits for some time, weighing whether to push changes that would extend term limits for lawmakers to three full terms from the current limit of two full terms. The limits were imposed after a 1993 referendum and were reaffirmed by voters in 1996. 
 In 2006, the Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, commissioned a poll to gauge the public's receptiveness to changing or eliminating term limits. Shortly after the poll was conducted, Ms. Quinn declined to discuss its findings, saying only that the results were ''mixed.'' But in December, Ms. Quinn -- who has been described as a likely mayoral candidate -- announced that she would not support any efforts to change the law, saying it would be ''anti-democratic and anti-reform'' to overrule the will of New Yorkers. 
 On Sunday, Ms. Quinn said through a spokesman that she had no comment on the any third-term aspirations by the mayor. She is among 36 council members whose tenure is set to end with Mr. Bloomberg's on Dec. 31, 2009.
 In January, Mr. Bloomberg said that he would appoint a Charter Revision Commission to evaluate the structure and operation of city agencies and find ways to eliminate redundancies and antiquated regulations. 
 The commission's work would extend into next year, however, and Mr. Loeser said that even if it should recommend doing away with the limits, any modifications would come too late to benefit the mayor or current council members.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); VETO (89%); TERM LIMITS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); REFERENDUMS (69%); CHARITIES (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



366 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Today In Business

 BODY:
PROBLEMS AT CBS The story of Katie Couric might be dominating headlines about the CBS Corporation, but numerous other problems are simmering beneath the big print. Without a new hit television show, CBS will lose the crown of most-watched network to Fox; the radio division is lagging; pressure to make a digital acquisition is intensifying and advertising revenues are softening. 
 TRACKING THE TORCH When the Olympic torch was carried through San Francisco last week, protestors supporting individual rights in Tibet tracked the location of the torch by communicating with text messages over cellphones. [C6.] 
 A PUBLICITY COUP Soon after China was awarded the Olympic games seven years ago, grass-roots groups supporting Tibet in the United States and abroad began planning their campaign and have since scored a publicity coup, putting China on the defensive by turning the subject from athletics to human-rights violations. Advertising. [C1.] 
 TROUBLES FOR BUYOUT MOGUL Leon D. Black, a buyout mogul who has made his name and fortune healing sick companies, is having a difficult time getting Linens 'n Things back on its feet, a sign of how broadly and deeply the economic malaise is spreading. [C1.]
 BACK IN THE AIRAmerican Airlines said that its fleet of 300 MD-80 jetliners was back to full strength on Sunday, after the cancellation of about 3,300 flights last week. [C1.]
 SMOKING OUT NEWS At The Smoking Gun, a Web site that delivers some hard-to-get news, the secret sauce is an ability to get documents no one else can get, usually on a computer from the confines of their New York office. The Media Equation: David Carr. [C1.]
 HE WRITES BOOKS Philip M. Parker, a professor in innovation, business and society, has developed computer algorithms that collect publicly available information on a subject. Aided by his 60 to 70 computers and six or seven programmers, he turns those results into books in a range of genres -- more than 200,000 books in all --making Mr. Parker, to hear him tell it, the most prolific author on the planet. [C1.]
 I.R.S. SCRUTINY The Internal Revenue Service's scrutiny of the nation's biggest companies is at a 20-year low, according to a study by Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a research group affiliated with Syracuse University. [C4.]
 CAMPAIGN PARODYJohn McCain says the ''McCain Girls,'' a trio of singing and dancing campaign supporters, are wonderful and entertaining. The creators of the ''McCain Girls'' turn out to be the comedy team behind 23/6, a five-month-old Web site owned by an affiliate of the IAC/InterActive Corporation that parodies the news. [C5.]
 NEWSPAPER PARODY It seems someone at The Wall Street Journal really likes a biting new parody of the paper -- enough, in fact, to leave at least one newsstand with no copies remaining for anyone else to buy. [C5.]
 MINORITY SEARCH ENGINE The IAC/Interactive Corporation wants to make money by helping minority groups connect more easily to specific sites. IAC last week introduced a new search engine, Rushmore Drive, run by Johnny Taylor, above, meant to give the black audience a quick way to find information that other search engines might bury beneath pages of less relevant results. The strategy will eventually extend to other ethnic groups, in what analysts said was the latest stab at diminishing Google's dominance in the search market. [C6.] 
 SOFTWARE PARTNERSHIP Google and Salesforce.com, two of Microsoft's most conspicuous rivals, are expanding a 10-month-old collaboration in an effort to accelerate their sales of customer management and office software to businesses. [C4.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); OLYMPICS (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (76%); OLYMPIC TORCH PROTESTS (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (71%); TEXT MESSAGING (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); AIRLINES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

COMPANY: CBS CORP (93%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (60%); LINENS 'N THINGS INC (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (93%); IACI (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (60%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (60%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (60%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (55%)

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (73%); LEON BLACK (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (72%); XIZANG, CHINA (72%) TIBET (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



367 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Finance Ministers Emphasize Food Crisis Over Credit Crisis

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The world's economic ministers declared on Sunday that shortages and skyrocketing prices for food posed a potentially greater threat to economic and political stability than the turmoil in capital markets.
 The ministers, conferring in the shadow of a slumping American economy that threatens to pull down the economies of other countries, turned their attention to the food crisis and called on the wealthiest countries to fulfill pledges to help prevent starvation and disorder in Asia, Africa and Latin America.
 ''Throughout the weekend we have heard again and again from ministers in developing countries and emerging economies that this is a priority issue,'' said Robert B. Zoellick, president of the World Bank. ''We have to put our money where our mouth is now, so that we can put food into hungry mouths. It is as stark as that.'' 
 Mr. Zoellick said that almost half of the $500 million that the World Food Program recently requested in additional pledges for food aid this year had been committed, but that the program would not meet a deadline of raising the money by May 1. 
 The World Food Program seeks the aid, on top of nearly $3 billion already committed, because of shortfalls in food distribution resulting from higher prices. 
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said the food crisis posed questions about the survivability of democracy and political regimes.
 ''As we know in the past, sometimes those questions lead to war,'' he said. ''We now need to devote 100 percent of our time to these questions.''
 World Bank and I.M.F. officials noted that political instability had already hit countries as disparate as Haiti, Egypt, the Philippines and Indonesia because of food shortages, forcing some countries to limit food exports.
 Mr. Zoellick had earlier highlighted the food issue in speeches and presentations this weekend, saying the World Bank intended not only to help with the emergency situation but also to upgrade programs to help countries produce more food on their own. He cited Malawi, in southern Africa, as a country that has started going in that direction.
 But food has also become a symbol of the conflicting pressures that frequently emerge at the semiannual gatherings of finance and development officials and central bankers that take place in Washington every spring. 
 Some ministers from poor countries, for example, are growing impatient with the way the West is addressing global warming by subsidizing and encouraging conversion of corn, sugar cane and other food products into substitutes for oil. The shift is helping to drive up prices, they say.
 Mr. Strauss-Kahn said he had heard from many financial officials this weekend that the West's focus on fuel, at the expense of food, was a ''crime against humanity.'' Though he noted that the I.M.F. is primarily a monetary and financial agency, he said it would try to ''review its tools'' to help countries pay for food imports.
 In addition, many ministers meeting here appeared to be self-conscious about how much of the attention at the meeting has focused on the global credit crisis, which has caused hundreds of billions of dollars in losses for banks and investment banks, while there was less focus on the problem of feeding the world's poor.
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said on Friday that the subject of food shortages had come up at the meeting of finance ministers of the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan under the heading of the Group of Seven. 
 ''Every country sitting around the table was focused on it,'' Mr. Paulson said of the Group of Seven's concern about food, adding that Mr. Zoellick ''made an impassioned plea.'' But Treasury officials said they had no details of what aid the United States was prepared to commit.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about food shortages and rising food prices described incorrectly a comment by Robert B. Zoellick, president of the World Bank, about the World Food Program's efforts to raise $500 million in food aid for poor countries by May 1. He said that nearly half the money had been raised, not enough to meet the goal. He did not say that the program would not meet its May 1 deadline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (92%); FOOD CHARITIES (91%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); STARVATION (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

PERSON: DOMINIQUE STRAUSS-KAHN (78%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); HAITI (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MALAWI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



368 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: At Forum on Faith, Democrats Wrangle Over Words and Beliefs

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: GRANTHAM, Pa. 

 BODY:
A candidate forum devoted to issues of faith and justice became another flash point for Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton to spar in their intensifying nominating fight, with the candidates exchanging frosty glances Sunday night as their paths briefly crossed on stage.
 The Democratic contenders addressed the Compassion Forum at Messiah College here, one after the other. Their cold, quick encounter as they traded places on the stage reflected the hostility between them over the past two days as Mrs. Clinton has repeatedly hammered Mr. Obama for remarks he made at a fund-raiser suggesting that some voters turned to religion and guns as consolation for their bitterness about their economic hardship.
 In response to the first question at the forum, Mrs. Clinton repeated her charge that Mr. Obama's remarks were ''elitist, out of touch and, frankly, patronizing.'' She said his words helped perpetuate the idea that Democrats looked down their noses at church-going Americans and hunters, an attitude that many Democrats believe contributed to their last two presidential losses.
 Mr. Obama, when he got his chance on the stage, once again sought to clarify and defend his comments, which he made in the closed-door fund-raiser in San Francisco a week ago. He said his words had been distorted and misconstrued. 
 ''That was in no way a demeaning of a faith that I myself embrace,'' Mr. Obama said. ''When economic hardship hits, they have faith, they have family, they have traditions that have been passed on from generation to generation. Those are not bad things. Those are the things that are left.''
 Nine days before the fiercely contested Pennsylvania primary, the two candidates sought through their appearance at this small Christian college to reassure voters that they shared their values. They also sought to close the so-called God gap that has benefited Republicans over the past several election cycles.
 Senator John McCain of Arizona, the likely Republican nominee, chose not to participate.
 Religion has become a contentious subtext in the Democratic campaign in recent days after Mr. Obama's comments. Before the forum, he began his most spirited counterattack on Mrs. Clinton since the flap erupted over his remarks, saying of her attacks, ''She knows better. Shame on her.'' He also mocked Mrs. Clinton's own recent comments courting gun owners, saying she was ''talking like she's Annie Oakley. Hillary Clinton's out there like she's on the duck blind every Sunday. She's packing a six-shooter. Come on, she knows better.''
 The sponsors of Sunday night's forum, moderated by Campbell Brown of CNN and Jon Meacham, editor of Newsweek, hoped it would be an exercise in earnestness on pressing moral and social issues, a 90-minute break from the political thrust and parry of the presidential campaign trail. And for the most part, the questioners and candidates complied, addressing religious beliefs in at times starkly personal terms. 
 The forum was held on the eve of the arrival of Pope Benedict XVI in the United States. 
 Both candidates made indirect appeals to Roman Catholic voters. Mrs. Clinton mentioned the pope's impending visit and praised his commitment to health and poverty issues around the world. In response to a question about when life began, Mrs. Clinton replied, ''I believe that the potential for life begins at conception.''
 Mr. Obama highlighted his own ties to the Roman Catholic Church, saying that he had once attended a Catholic school in Indonesia and shared the experiences of a Catholic education with many Americans. 
 The forum demonstrated how far the Democratic Party has come in its internal grappling with questions of faith and religion in public life. The party and liberal-leaning groups have been engaged in a broad discussion on these matters since the 2004 election, in which people who attended church regularly voted overwhelmingly for President Bush over Senator John Kerry, who was noticeably uncomfortable talking about his own Catholic faith.
 In her criticism of Mr. Obama's comments, Mrs. Clinton alluded to that electoral divide. Sunday night she spoke fluidly and comfortably about her Methodist upbringing and how faith had guided her and comforted her since she was a child.
 Mr. Obama noted several times that his Christian faith underlay his commitment to social justice and was a central part of his work as a community organizer in Chicago before he went into politics. He also defended his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., who has delivered scathing sermons portraying the United States as a racist, warmongering nation. Mr. Obama was forced to address those comments, repudiating Mr. Wright's most radical views while saying he still felt a strong bond to the man who helped bring him to his Christian faith.
 ''There's been this notion that he was, by various terms, my spiritual adviser or my spiritual mentor,'' Mr. Obama said. ''You know, he's been my pastor.'' He called some of Mr. Wright's comments ''deeply offensive and are contrary to what I believe.''
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama are competing for working-class white voters in Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, Kentucky and several other states as the primary season enters its final phase. Many swing voters in these states are Catholics or self-described evangelical Christians, and their votes could prove decisive, not only in these final Democratic primaries but also in the general election. 
 Mr. Obama said that because his father's family was Muslim and he lived for more than four years in Indonesia as a child, he had great respect for Islam and believed that Muslims could join members of other faiths in solving the world's problems.
 Mr. Obama, in response to a question from an audience member, Jim Wallis, the president of Sojourners, a progressive religious group, said he would seek to cut poverty in America in half within 10 years, although he said circumstances could undermine his good intentions.
 Mrs. Clinton comfortably adopted the language of a Christian believer in addressing a question about how faith guides her in life. ''You know, I have, ever since I've been a little girl, felt the presence of God in my life,'' she said. ''And it has been a gift of grace that has, for me, been incredibly sustaining.''
 She said she had felt God's grace as she faced unfaithfulness in her marriage as well as in more uplifting moments in her life. ''It didn't have to be a hard time,'' she said. ''You know, it could be taking a walk in the woods. It could be watching a sunset.''
 . Both candidates were asked whether they believed God was informing their approach to politics or somehow blessing their candidacies.
 ''Well,'' Mrs. Clinton said, smiling and pausing, '' I could be glib and say we'll find out, but I -- I don't presume anything about God.''
 Asked a similar question, Mr. Obama replied, ''It takes a certain self-righteousness where we think we have a direct line to God.'' He added a moment later, ''The public square is not the place for us to empower ourselves in that way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama crossed paths briefly while trading places on the stage of a Compassion Forum at Messiah College in Grantham, Pa., moderated by Jon Meacham, the editor of Newsweek, and Campbell Brown of CNN.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



369 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: The Mask Slips

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

 BODY:
I haven't read much Karl Marx since the early 1980s, when I taught political philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania. Still, it didn't take me long this weekend to find my copy of ''The Marx-Engels Reader,'' edited by Robert C. Tucker -- a book that was assigned in thousands of college courses in the 1970s and 80s, and that now must lie, unopened and un-remarked upon, on an awful lot of rec-room bookshelves. 
 My occasion for spending a little time once again with the old Communist was Barack Obama's now-famous comment at an April 6 San Francisco fund-raiser. Obama was explaining his trouble winning over small-town, working-class voters: ''It's not surprising then that they get bitter, they cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them or anti-immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations.'' 
 This sent me to Marx's famous statement about religion in the introduction to his ''Contribution to the Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right'':
 ''Religious suffering is at the same time an expression of real suffering and a protest against real suffering. Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the sentiment of a heartless world, and the soul of a soulless condition. It is the opium of the people.''
 Or, more succinctly, and in the original German in which Marx somehow always sounds better: ''Die Religion ... ist das Opium des Volkes.''
 Now, this is a point of view with a long intellectual pedigree prior to Marx, and many vocal adherents continuing into the 21st century. I don't believe the claim is true, but it's certainly worth considering, in college classrooms and beyond. 
 But it's one thing for a German thinker to assert that ''religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature.'' It's another thing for an American presidential candidate to claim that we ''cling to ... religion'' out of economic frustration.
 And it's a particularly odd claim for Barack Obama to make. After all, in his speech at the 2004 Democratic convention, he emphasized with pride that blue-state Americans, too, ''worship an awesome God.''
 What's more, he's written eloquently in his memoir, ''Dreams From My Father,'' of his own religious awakening upon hearing the Rev. Jeremiah Wright's ''Audacity of Hope'' sermon, and of the complexity of his religious commitment. You'd think he'd do other believers the courtesy of assuming they've also thought about their religious beliefs. 
 But Obama in San Francisco does no courtesy to his fellow Americans. Look at the other claims he makes about those small-town voters.
 Obama ascribes their anti-trade sentiment to economic frustration -- as if there are no respectable arguments against more free-trade agreements. This is particularly cynical, since he himself has been making those arguments, exploiting and fanning this sentiment that he decries. Aren't we then entitled to assume Obama's opposition to Nafta and the Colombian trade pact is merely cynical pandering to frustrated Americans?
 Then there's what Obama calls ''anti-immigrant sentiment.'' Has Obama done anything to address it? It was John McCain, not Obama, who took political risks to try to resolve the issue of illegal immigration by putting his weight behind an attempt at immigration reform.
 Furthermore, some concerns about unchecked and unmonitored illegal immigration are surely legitimate. Obama voted in 2006 (to take just one example) for the Secure Fence Act, which was intended to control the Mexican border through various means, including hundreds of miles of border fence. Was Obama then just accommodating bigotry?
 As for small-town Americans' alleged ''antipathy to people who aren't like them'': During what Obama considers the terrible Clinton-Bush years of economic frustration, by any measurement of public opinion polling or observed behavior, Americans have become far more tolerant and respectful of minorities who are not ''like them.'' Surely Obama knows this. Was he simply flattering his wealthy San Francisco donors by casting aspersions on the idiocy of small-town life?
 That leaves us with guns. Gun ownership has been around for an awfully long time. And people may have good reasons to, and in any case have a constitutional right to, own guns -- as Obama himself has been acknowledging on the campaign trail, when he presents himself as more sympathetic to gun owners than a typical Democrat.
 What does this mean for Obama's presidential prospects? He's disdainful of small-town America -- one might say, of bourgeois America. He's usually good at disguising this. But in San Francisco the mask slipped. And it's not so easy to get elected by a citizenry you patronize.
 And what are the grounds for his supercilious disdain? If he were a war hero, if he had a career of remarkable civic achievement or public service -- then he could perhaps be excused an unattractive but in a sense understandable hauteur. But what has Barack Obama accomplished that entitles him to look down on his fellow Americans? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILOSOPHY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); RELIGION (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



370 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: First Question for Clinton: Be Aggressive or Lay Off?

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
The long-running series of Democratic presidential debates resumes this week after an extended hiatus. The big question is how bitter the next chapter will be.
 The two dozen televised showdowns have always given a distorted glimpse of the nomination fight, which plays out in state after state on much less visible levels. But the debates offer the clearest national focus, and that means Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton must make a decision: mount a feisty new assault on Senator Barack Obama, or present a more congenial face to the public.
 Mrs. Clinton has adopted both approaches at different points in the campaign, and she could justify using either when she faces off with Mr. Obama in Philadelphia on Wednesday night, six days before the Pennsylvania primary. Even her aides made clear this weekend that they did not yet know which path she would choose. 
 Since Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama last debated, in Cleveland on Feb. 26, she has made little discernable progress toward her goal of scoring a come-from-behind victory in the nominating contest. She won the Texas and Ohio primaries, but has fallen farther behind in the delegate race; she trailed by 97 delegates the day of the Cleveland debate, and 140 now, by the Obama campaign's count. And she has failed to overtake Mr. Obama in most national polls, despite a brief furor over incendiary remarks by his former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr.
 As a result, Mrs. Clinton finds herself like a basketball team trailing at game's end and having to watch precious seconds tick off the clock. That leaves some Democratic observers predicting a serene and civil performance on her part, rather than the combative approach advocated by her chief strategist, Mark Penn, before he was ousted from that post a week ago.
 ''Senator Clinton doesn't want to do anything that makes her look like a spoiler,'' said Bill Carrick, a veteran Democratic strategist. In a similar vein, William A. Galston, who was a White House aide to Bill Clinton, predicted that both candidates would avoid ''an overly contentious tone'' at a time when the party's pivotal blue-collar constituency is yearning for solutions to fix an ailing economy.
 'Do Better' or Lose
 Yet Mr. Obama's description of that very constituency as ''bitter'' in its political attitudes toward the economy has clouded his prospects for making inroads with those voters, both in the general election and in the primaries. And it has fueled Mrs. Clinton's hopes for matching last week's feat by the University of Kansas basketball team, which rallied to beat Memphis for the N.C.A.A. men's championship by battling until the buzzer and capitalizing on its opponent's mistakes.
 By effectively exploiting Mr. Obama's remarks in Wednesday's debate, which is being hosted by ABC, Mrs. Clinton could reach every group she is trying to reach: swing voters in Pennsylvania, Indiana and the other remaining primary states; uncommitted superdelegates with doubts about Mr. Obama's ability to win in the general election; and the news media.
 ''Clinton will be more aggressive,'' predicted Donna Brazile, Al Gore's campaign manager in 2000 and a Democratic National Committee member who is neutral in this race. ''This is still a 'do better or prepare to lose' moment.''
 Risk Versus Payoff
 Boring in on Mr. Obama's words carries risk for Mrs. Clinton as well. Democratic voters in this race have proved repeatedly that they do not always share the temporary preoccupations of the news media or the campaigns themselves.
 Mrs. Clinton's credibility suffered from her erroneous description of coming under sniper fire during a visit to Bosnia as first lady in 1996. Her husband, former President Bill Clinton, compounded the problem by inaccurately defending Mrs. Clinton on the issue.
 Mr. Obama's advisers say he will be ready to respond forcefully, and warn that Mrs. Clinton has already shown signs of over-reaching in her remarks over the weekend defending gun owners in the same breath as devout churchgoers. Mrs. Clinton is ''acting like Annie Oakley and Billy Graham all in one,'' said David Plouffe, Mr. Obama's campaign manager, ''and she's neither.''
 Mrs. Clinton may not need to bring up Mr. Obama's words at all in the debate, since the moderators, Charles Gibson and George Stephanopoulos, are almost certain to do so on their own. A new contretemps could also intervene by the time the candidates take the stage in a campaign that has been stamped by unpredictability. 
 The debate ''is like a lifetime away,'' observed Howard Wolfson, Mrs. Clinton's communications director. ''Anything you write will be wrong.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BASKETBALL (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (71%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



371 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: West Side Redevelopment Plans Appear in Disarray

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
For three years, it has been one of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's abiding ambitions: to transform the warehouses, factories, parking lots and railroad tracks between Pennsylvania Station and the Hudson River into a glimmering high-rise business district.
 It was a vision to make Robert Moses proud, calling for office towers along 11th Avenue, skyscrapers soaring over the railyards, a Parisian-style boulevard lined with trees, an expanded Jacob K. Javits Convention Center and a 1.1-mile extension of the No. 7 subway line -- not to mention an elegant new Penn Station ringed by office towers.
 Today, those plans are in disarray. Because of the economic downturn, logistical problems and, critics say, design flaws, the expansion of the Javits Center has died, the plan to rebuild Penn Station and the area around it is in jeopardy and there are deep questions about financing, public and private, to extend the subway or build over the railyards. 
 The setbacks are a disappointment for Mr. Bloomberg, who once declared development of the Far West Side ''the single most important economic project that this city has undertaken in decades.'' His aides predict that much of the project will still go forward. 
 But many urban planners, architects, community leaders and developers say the downturn may have a silver lining, providing an opportunity for the city to rethink and reconfigure sweeping proposals many of them had doubts about all along. 
 ''The best thing about an economic slowdown is that it gives you time to plan and get ready for the next cycle,'' said the architect David Childs of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. ''All these decisions on the West Side can be looked at in a different light, given the change in economic conditions.''
 Now, alternative proposals for the West Side are emerging that challenge the mayor's original vision by offering less ambitious ideas that would move growth toward the Hudson in a step-by-step fashion. 
 For instance, many planners suggest scrapping the costly tree-lined boulevard that would run from 33rd Street to 42nd Street between 10th and 11th Avenues, which one local official called ''a boulevard to nowhere.'' The city has already condemned 12 parcels between 33rd and 36th Streets for the midblock boulevard, which has a projected cost in the tens of millions of dollars.
 Others say that the current zoning should be loosened to allow for residential buildings as well as office towers on 11th Avenue. Still others recommend that the state and city focus dwindling public resources on the Penn Station area, which they say is far more ripe for development than the railyards straddling 11th Avenue. Just building a platform over those tracks would cost $2 billion. 
 ''We clearly can't afford to do everything,'' said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit planning group. ''The moment has arrived where we have to be really clear on what we want to build and how we're going to pay for it.''
 Mr. Yaro and others, including Lynne B. Sagalyn, a professor of real estate at Columbia University's Graduate School of Business, have argued that the administration and its former development czar, Daniel L. Doctoroff, were mistaken to expect commercial development to leap from Eighth Avenue to the railyards. They contend commercial development has always moved parcel by parcel, block by block.
 For that reason, the local community board, the Regional Plan Association and many developers contend that the city and state should focus their West Side development efforts on the Penn Station area and the adjacent office district, which would require substantial government assistance in the form of grants, tax credits and zoning changes.
 Corporate tenants, those planners say, are more likely to move next to the busiest train station in the country, with its connections to other boroughs, New Jersey and Long Island, than to the railyards, where the only subway would be the No. 7 line, which would require changing trains for most destinations.
 ''Our feeling has always been that commercial development would start at Pennsylvania Station and move westward,'' Mr. Yaro said.
 The Penn Station plan, spearheaded by Stephen M. Ross of Related Companies and Steven Roth of Vornado Realty Trust, calls for rebuilding Pennsylvania Station and moving Madison Square Garden one block west to the nearly vacant Farley post office building, which would also serve as an annex to what would be called Moynihan Station. In return, the developers would get the rights to build a half-dozen office towers nearby.
 At Ninth Avenue between 31st and 33rd Streets, Brookfield Properties also plans to start work in June on a $600 million platform for two large office towers. The developer is talking to Conde Nast Publications about being the anchor tenant, although the project could be delayed if nothing happens with the Moynihan project.
 The Penn Station project is facing its own problems. The Garden is balking at the move, potentially killing the entire endeavor. If Vornado and Related Companies cannot lure the Garden back, they plan to revive an earlier plan to build a $900 million train station annex at the Farley building, an office tower across the street and improvements at Penn Station in return for more development rights. Vornado also plans to demolish the nearby Pennsylvania Hotel to make way for a large office project.
 But even that smaller development would make more sense than a huge, costly project in the still largely undeveloped area to the west, many planners and local officials say.
 ''The railyards will be much more valuable when the commercial district creeps up to it from the east,'' said Anna Hayes Levin, a member of Community Board 4's land use committee. ''No one will go there now to be an outpost.''
 The Bloomberg administration says it is too early to give up on its big plans. While acknowledging that the economic climate has drastically restricted financing for developers, Robert C. Lieber, the deputy mayor for economic development, said the city had always viewed the Far West Side as a long-term project. 
 ''We still believe that this plan is well thought out and the right plan for the next 30 years, and that includes Moynihan Station,'' he said. ''We know there are still tenants out there looking for large blocks of space and Wall Street still needs modern, technological space.''
 There has been some progress. The city broke ground late last year on the extension of the No. 7 subway line, although critics question whether there will be money to finish it. And the Metropolitan Transportation Authority signed a tentative $1 billion deal with Tishman Speyer Properties to build over the railyards, the 26-acre Long Island Rail Road tracks near the river, a project known as Hudson Yards.
 But few officials or real estate executives expect construction on Hudson Yards to start soon, because of the slowing economy and tight credit. With city and state tax revenues falling sharply, officials are also warning that there will be less government resources available for all the projects.
 Indeed, even as he endorsed the Hudson Yards and Penn Station projects in a speech last week, Gov. David A. Paterson warned that ''the first thing we have to do is tighten our belts and be far more fiscally sound,'' a clear signal that some projects may not make the cut.
 In another warning sign, Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester Democrat, said he planned to introduce legislation calling on the Empire State Development Corporation to assess the ''status, viability and project goals'' of all the West Side projects within 45days. 
 Mr. Brodsky has questioned both the sale of the development rights over the railyards and the city's financing of the No. 7 extension, which he said lacked oversight. ''These projects are desperately important,'' he said. ''But as of right now, they're all in danger. There isn't enough public money to solve all the issues.'' 
 There is a long tradition in New York in which the first and even second versions of huge developments fail before serious construction begins. The redevelopment of dowdy, crime-infested Times Square did not take flight until the late 1990s -- under the third iteration of a master plan. Battery Park City went through a similar stop-and-go evolution in the 1970s and 1980s.
 The Far West Side redevelopment was born of a desire to bring the 2012 Olympic Games to New York and to create a thriving new business and residential district around a football stadium for the New York Jets.
 Mr. Doctoroff, then Mr. Bloomberg's deputy mayor for economic development, was the architect of the plan to rezone the industrial Far West Side for 24 million square feet of office space, 20 acres of open space, hotels and 13,500 apartments.
 There was land set aside for badly needed green space. The $2 billion subway extension, the city said, would attract commercial developers and convey thousands of new office workers to their jobs. 
 Mr. Doctoroff viewed the stadium both as a critical part of the city's bid for the 2012 Olympics and as a catalyst for development in the area. But the stadium proposal died in the State Legislature after widespread opposition.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Hudson railyards in 2005, when a plan to build a football stadium there for the New York Jets died. Now a revised plan may be in trouble. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B1)
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, right, and Gov. George E. Pataki in 2004, with a West Side model. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY BULL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAP: WEST SIDE QUANDARY: Mayor Bloomberg's plans for the West Side are unraveling. Many urban planners, architects and community leaders say building should be focused around Pennsylvania Station. (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ZONING (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%)

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



372 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Talks Over Airline Merger Are Said to Be Intensifying

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and JEFF BAILEY; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Merger talks between Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines picked up pace again on Sunday, and people briefed on the negotiations said an announcement of a deal could come as soon as Tuesday. 
 The two companies have seemed on the verge of announcing a deal several times in recent months -- raising hopes among some investors and worrying those concerned about loss of competition among airlines -- only to back away from a merger.
 During that period, the airline business has deteriorated sharply. Record-high fuel prices have sent a handful of smaller carriers into bankruptcy in recent weeks. The latest was Frontier Airlines on Friday. 
 Some analysts now expect the industry to lose money this year after two years that were mostly profitable. And the slowing economy is making it hard for airlines to raise fares to cover fuel costs. 
 A representative at Delta could not be reached and a Northwest spokesman declined to comment. 
 Shares in Delta and Northwest have plunged since they emerged from bankruptcy about a year ago. Delta closed at $10.01 on Friday, down from a high of $21.95 last spring. Northwest closed at $10.96, down from a high of $26.50 last spring. If the deal was structured as a stock acquisition of Northwest by Delta, it would be worth Northwest's market capitalization of $2.59 billion.
 The broad outlines of a deal have remained constant: an exchange of stock at a ratio close to market prices; a combined airline that would be called Delta, with headquarters in Atlanta; and Richard H. Anderson, Delta's chief executive, keeping that position, with Northwest's chief executive, Douglas M. Steenland, stepping aside. 
 Pilots at Delta and Northwest earlier could not agree on how to merge their seniority lists, which is important to them because it determines their ranking for pay, what kind of plane they would fly and their days off. So last month, Northwest asked Delta to proceed toward a deal without a combined list.
 The carriers had hoped to get a merged list before a deal so that operations could be combined quickly and without rancor. US Airways and America West Airlines have been unable to fully combine operations more than two years after merging because of disputes over a seniority list. 
 Pilots have no legal power to block a merger, but they could appeal to lawmakers to help prevent a deal.
 James L. Oberstar, chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, has said he opposes big airline mergers because competition would suffer and some markets would lose service.
 Putting a deal together now without a merged pilots list and amid an industry downturn could be difficult. The carriers had promised the pilots a raise and a lot of stock in the merged airline in exchange for a combined seniority list. 
 Leaders of the Delta and Northwest pilots' unions met separately over the weekend. There was no immediate action by either union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); MERGERS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); DELTA NORTHWEST MERGER (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (98%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (63%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

PERSON: DOUGLAS M STEENLAND (78%); RICHARD H ANDERSON (58%); JIM OBERSTAR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



373 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Views on Money for Iraq War, and What Else Could Be Done With It

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With long-term estimates of the cost of the Iraq war ranging from $1 trillion to $3 trillion or more, the question naturally arises of what else the country could have done with the money.
 The issue occasionally crops up on the campaign trail and in public debate. Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, told voters in West Virginia last month that the war was costing each American household $100 a month. ''Just think about what battles we could be fighting instead of fighting this misguided war,'' Mr. Obama said.
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton said in Indiana recently that the war was costing $12 billion a month and was crowding out urgent national needs. ''We've got to begin not only to withdraw our troops,'' said Mrs. Clinton, Democrat of New York, ''but bring that money back home.''
 On the other hand, Senator John McCain of Arizona, the likely Republican nominee, says repeatedly that success in Iraq justifies any cost and that overspending in other areas is causing the strain on the federal budget. He says the government can afford whatever the war costs as well as a big corporate tax cut if it reins in wasteful federal spending. 
 President Bush addressed the cost more directly than before in remarks on Thursday at the White House. Mr. Bush acknowledged that the human and material costs had been high and would demand continued sacrifices from all Americans. But he said that relative to the cold war, the war in Iraq had consumed a ''modest fraction'' of the country's wealth.
 Even if the country can afford the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan or, as Mr. Bush and Mr. McCain assert, cannot afford not to fight them, the amounts being spent on the conflict are of a scale that war critics say would allow the country to address what they see as more compelling problems.
 At the low end of estimates of the cost of the war -- $120 billion a year -- the money would cover the projected cost of Mrs. Clinton's universal health care plan. It could pay for Mr. Obama's less inclusive health care plan and his proposal to bail out homeowners with troubled mortgages. Or for development of new renewable energy sources and a nationwide public works program. Or pay toward a long-term fix for Social Security. Or the unpaid part of the Medicare drug benefit.
 The American public, by an overwhelming margin, believes that the cost of the war is worsening domestic economic problems. In a New York Times/CBS News poll completed on April 2, 67 percent of respondents said the war had contributed ''a lot'' to American economic problems, and 22 percent said it was contributing ''some.'' Only 10 percent said ''not much'' or ''not at all.''
 Mr. Bush said in his speech on Thursday that the Defense Department budget today represented slightly more than 4 percent of gross domestic product, compared with more than 6 percent in some years of the Reagan administration and as much as 13 percent in 1952-3, when the United States was engaged in the war in Korea.
 But the war in Iraq is largely being paid for off the books, with emergency and supplemental spending rather than from the Pentagon's operating budget, so Mr. Bush's figures are a low estimate of the relative cost of the war, analysts have observed. And growing entitlement costs today make such comparisons with previous eras questionable.
 ''Even if you assume the war costs will phase down, either quickly or slowly, we are still on an unsustainable track under current budget policy,'' said James R. Horney, director of federal fiscal policy at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington, a liberal research group. ''Before the war started and without any of the new ideas of the candidates, we're in a situation where we have to reduce spending and reduce the rate of growth of Medicare and Medicaid and, to a lesser extent, Social Security. So the costs of the war have to be seen in that context.''
 Douglas Holtz-Eakin, Mr. McCain's chief economic adviser and a former director of the Congressional Budget Office, said the benefits of success in Iraq dwarfed the $150 billion annual cost. He also said that if the war and the personal and corporate tax cuts that Mr. McCain advocated added to the federal deficit and debt, so be it.
 ''I would like the next president not to talk about deficit reduction,'' Mr. Holtz-Eakin said at a symposium sponsored by the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. ''The next president should talk about what's good for American families -- education, health care at reasonable costs, pensions that are secure, opening our borders to trade. If we can take care of that, we can take care of the budget.''
 Mr. McCain has said he plans to pay for tax cuts and modernizing the military by eliminating earmarks and wasteful spending from the federal budget. Both Senators Clinton and Obama would allow the Bush administration's personal income tax cuts to expire in 2011 and are proposing new levies on wealthy individuals, oil companies and other businesses to help pay for expansive and expensive new government programs.
 While both promise to remove troops from Iraq, Mrs. Clinton does not expect any big savings that could be used to finance her domestic initiatives. Mr. Obama does expect the winding down of the Iraq war to ultimately produce a ''peace dividend'' that can be used for other things.
 Austan D. Goolsbee, a University of Chicago professor who is advising Mr. Obama on economic matters, said that any such dividend would emerge slowly, and he did not fix a dollar figure on it.
 Dr. Goolsbee said Mr. Obama's programs would be financed from a variety of sources, including elimination of the Bush tax cuts and anticipated federal spending reductions. ''They will more than pay for everything Senator Obama has proposed,'' he said. 
 An economic adviser to Mrs. Clinton, who was not authorized to speak on the record, said she proposed to pay for all of her domestic programs, including universal health insurance, without taking money from the Pentagon that would be needed to redeploy troops now in Iraq and to pay for their health care costs.
 ''Everything is paid for,'' the adviser said. ''We have been very careful and clear in all our domestic initiatives to show how we'd pay for them.''
 All three candidates may be living in a fiscal fantasyland, some neutral observers believe. ''With or without the war, we can't afford the current policy,'' said Mr. Horney of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. ''What the war has done is bring us a little closer to the day of reckoning, because we will have squandered the opportunity to address these long-term problems.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, says success in Iraq justifies any cost.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSEPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); HEALTH INSURANCE (84%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MEDICARE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); JOHN MCCAIN (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



374 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON LINE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2316 words

HEADLINE: Blogger Is Surprised by Uproar Over Obama Story, but Not Bitter

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The back story of how Senator Barack Obama's comments about small-town voters became news is getting almost as much attention in the blogosphere as the comments themselves.
 Mayhill Fowler, a blogger for OffTheBus.net, a Web site published by Huffington Post and created by Arianna Huffington and Jay Rosen, was the first to report Mr. Obama's comments -- that small-town voters bitter over their economic circumstances, ''cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them'' as a way to explain their frustrations.
 The comments created an instant sensation in the media and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton seized on them, hoping they would slow Mr. Obama's momentum in the polls against her in Pennsylvania, which votes in 8 days. If Pennsylvania rejects Mr. Obama by a big margin, and voters in Indiana and North Carolina follow suit, the comment could be seen as the game-changer. 
 Ms. Fowler told me in an interview Sunday night that she was initially reluctant to write about what Mr. Obama had said because she actually supports him -- which partly explains why she was at the fund-raiser in the first place and why there was a four-day delay between the event and the publication of her post. Ultimately, she said, she decided that if she didn't write about it, she wouldn't be worth her salt as a journalist.
 Some Obama supporters in the blogosphere were up in arms at Ms. Fowler. They doubt that she really supports Mr. Obama, have called her a plant for Mrs. Clinton and suggested she was deceptive in getting into the fund-raiser.
 The whole episode gives a revealing glimpse into yet even more ways in which the Internet is changing the coverage of politics. And Ms. Fowler says she is surprised that she is playing a role in this revolution.
 ''I'm 61,'' she said. ''I can't believe I would be one of the people who's changing the world of media.'' But her experience raises questions about whether the roles, rules and expectations for journalists and bloggers are different. Can a person be both? Even Ms. Fowler acknowledged that ''clearly everyone is going to be re-thinking how they handle this kind of thing.''
 For one thing, some Internet enterprises, unlike the mainstream media, do allow their writers to actively support the people they cover: Ms. Fowler has contributed money to Mr. Obama (and other candidates, including Mrs. Clinton).
 Ms. Fowler, who graduated from Vassar in 1968 and had dabbled in writing, became a ''citizen journalist'' last summer when the Huffington Post started ''OffTheBus.net,'' a new venture that has now expanded to a network of about 1,800 unpaid writers and researchers. I wrote about O.T.B. in October, by which time editors at the Huffington Post had already identified Ms. Fowler as one of O.T.B.'s ''emerging star correspondents.''
 Ms. Fowler has spent a lot of time (and her own money) following the presidential campaign-- and participating in it. She has maxed out at $2,300 to Mr. Obama, starting in increments last fall. She said she has also given money ($100) to Mrs. Clinton, because she is roughly Mrs. Clinton's age and liked the idea of a woman president and she attended two Clinton fund-raisers with her sister, a devoted Clinton supporter. And she also gave $500 to Fred Thompson, of Tennessee, even though he is a Republican, because that's where she is from and her family has been steeped in Tennessee politics since the 1790s (that's not a typo).
 As a supporter who had made donations, Ms. Fowler had been invited before to Obama fund-raisers -- and written about them on O.T.B. After the Ohio and Texas primaries, she was back home in the Bay Area and heard that Mr. Obama would be holding four fund-raisers there on April 6. She had not been invited but asked a friend if she could go. She was put on the list for the last of four events, this one at a mansion in Pacific Heights.
 There's a bit of a brush fire in California about how Ms. Fowler got in, and Ms. Fowler is protecting the person who secured her a ticket. That person has since called her and said that fund-raisers are always off the record.
 ''This was never conveyed to me,'' Ms. Fowler said. ''I was invited to the event, I had written on fund-raisers in the past, why wouldn't I this time?'' She said the Obama campaign had never objected before to her having written about fund-raisers (though admittedly, nothing much of interest had happened). And the invitations said nothing about being closed to the press. Besides, she said, several guests brought people and children and who had not been invited.
 ''We had a fundamental misunderstanding of my priorities,'' Ms. Fowler told me. ''Mine were as a reporter, not as a supporter. They thought I would put the role of supporter first.''
 Marc Cooper, who is the editorial coordinator of O.T.B., is writing on his own blog about the development of Ms. Fowler's story and he acknowledged that the campaign did not want the event covered. ''It was indeed a fund-raiser to which the press was not invited,'' he wrote. ''Or if you wish, it was closed to press. Therefore it wasn't on or off the record. Off the record is when journalists consensually agree to witness or hear something on the condition they not report it.''
 Still, he wrote, ''Most if not all press was kept out of the room but Mayhill was invited in. She was under no obligation not to report. Obama was indeed more loose-lipped than usual. He should be more careful in his choice of words when he is staring into so many video cams, no matter who is holding them.''
 Ms. Fowler said she held her digital recorder openly. The place was jammed with others using video cams and cell phone cameras. Among them, Ms. Fowler said, was a professor who was recording the event for his students. In fact, snippets of the speech have been posted on YouTube by others who were there.
 Ms. Fowler started listening near where Mr. Obama was speaking but said it got so hot that she moved to the back, where she sat next to other people who were recording the event with professional equipment.
 She also considered leaving because Mr. Obama was giving his stump speech. ''I never went there dreaming there would be much of anything to write about,'' she said. ''I thought maybe I'd find something for background, I thought one sentence, maybe a dependent clause.''
 She had just finished covering his bus trip across Pennsylvania -- not on the bus itself but tagging along in a separate car -- and was well-acquainted with his stump speech. So she recognized his comments about rural voters, which came in response to a question, as new. (The question was not, as has been reported, why he was lagging in the polls in Pennsylvania but what some of those in the room who were going to campaign for him in Pennsylvania might expect.)
 Ms. Fowler said she found his response ''professorial'' and judgmental toward blue-collar voters and that even though she supports him, she was ''taken aback'' by them.
 ''I'm a religious person, and I grew up poor in a very wealthy family -- sometimes we didn't have enough to eat, but my larger family was rich,'' she said. Her father was a hunter. ''Immediately, the remarks just really bothered me. For the first time, I realized he is an elitist.''
 She also knew they could hurt him, so at first, she didn't tell anybody about them.
 As it happened, Mr. Obama had made other ''news'' during his talk, describing the kind of person he would pick for vice president and revealing that he had been to Pakistan during college. Ms. Fowler posted those comments the day after the fund-raiser.
 Then she stewed for several days over whether to write about the comments about small-town voters. ''There are no standards of journalism on the Internet,'' she said. ''I'm always second-guessing myself. Is this the right thing to do? Am I being fair?''
 She said she initially decided not to write about them. ''I thought I wouldn't put it out there, this really might damage his campaign,'' she said. ''I talked it over with my husband, and like many people, he didn't see anything wrong with the remarks. He didn't think it was newsworthy.''
 Then she told her editor in New York that she had some interesting material but didn't tell her exactly what it was. ''Initially I resisted what she was telling me, which was that if you're going to cover the campaign, you have to not be partial or your coverage isn't worth as much as it could be,'' she said.
 The next step, she said, was realizing that her editor was right. As she flew east on Thursday to resume covering Mr. Obama, she said, the story just wrote itself in her head. While she said she usually spends four hours composing her posts, this one took half an hour. Unlike her post about Mr. Obama's vice presidential musings, which she wrote as hard news, she wrote this one in the ruminating style that has become her trademark. The important quotes were buried deep in the narrative, almost as if they were couched to soften the blow. She also said she thought posting on Friday would mean fewer people would see it.
 Mr. Cooper, the editorial director, describes her style this way: ''She employs a highly-personalized, reflective narrative style to her unconventional reporting -- an approach that would be, indeed, non-grata, within the official campaign reporting bubble. It violates almost all of the conventions of traditional reporting (though not its ethical code) and that's what makes it all so damn interesting.''
 He added: ''I, personally, would have written her piece much differently than the way she chose. It would have been less about me and more about Obama. But Mayhill has developed quite a loyal and appreciative audience and with her most recent work demonstrates that citizen journalism can do many, many things still inaccessible to the M.S.M.''
 The post created an instant storm, garnering 5,000 hits immediately, more than 50,000 more in the next few hours and topping 100,000 by the end of the day. By then, Mr. Obama himself was talking about his comments and Mrs. Clinton was activating her entire campaign apparatus to try to exploit them.
 The blogosphere swelled with outrage from Obama supporters. Ms. Fowler said Friday was the fourth-most memorable day of her life, after the birth of her two children and her wedding day.
 Soon, the Obama Web posted a counter-description from another person who attended the fund-raiser (without the quotes). The writer gives a sympathetic explanation of Mr. Obama's comments and writes that Ms. Fowler had an agenda; Ms. Fowler said she had no agenda except to write it as she saw it.
 Comments on dailykos.com became so furious that one poster suggested that readers let Ms. Fowler off the hook. ''No,'' someone else responded, ''if we let her go, others will do it... We've got to show the 'journalist' that they can't manufacture dissent. This isn't about Obama, this could easily be a story about Iraq or Iran. This is the type of disingenuous reporting that we have to stop. We need to make an example of her.''
 Mr. Cooper continues to defend her and rejects any suggestion that she had strayed into a ''gray area'' of journalism.
 ''What's gray is when a reporter engages in any level of deceit to get the story or violates a ground rule to which he or she promised to comply,'' he writes. ''Not the case with our reporter, thanks very much. She was known to the campaign as an OffTheBus reporter and they let her in as such and she worked the room as such and she recorded the event in the open as she sat with campaign staff,'' He adds: ''They probably let her in because they expected her to write unblemished pro-Obama copy. Or they don't fully understand implications of internet age information. She herself was quite conflicted about writing something potentially harmful to Obama. But she correctly decided that the truth shall set ya free.''
 He has been engaged in a dialogue with a poster named Bill Bradley, who then wrote: ''Marc, they regarded her as a pro-Obama blogger. Not as a journalist or reporter or columnist per se. Bloggers are viewed as activists, not journalists. It's why some campaigns have blogger conference calls and press conference calls. The blogger calls are to pump up the base. The press calls are to do spin and answer arguably tough questions. She was admitted to the private San Francisco fund-raiser as an activist blogger and then functioned as a journalist. This is the gray area I'm talking about with regard to citizen journalism.''
 Bloggers have certainly demonstrated that they can perform well as journalists. (Remember the perjury trial of I. Lewis Libby Jr.? Or Joshua Micah Marshall's coverage of the firing of eight United States attorneys?) But is it possible to straddle the line between reporter and supporter? Ms. Fowler said that despite the criticism, she is certain that she did the right thing. ''I'm totally at peace with it,'' she said.
 By the way, if you've wondered why you haven't heard Arianna Huffington weigh in on the subject, it turns out she's on a cruise in the Pacific. She may not even know about the stir it has created. Consider the irony -- her site gets perhaps its biggest scoop of the campaign and Ms. Huffington, a vigorous promoter of the site and a constant presence in the media, isn't around to enjoy it. 
 Update:Ms Huffington sends the following: ''I was indeed in Tahiti, but fully wired. Not only watching what was happening on our site and everything online about Mayhill's post, but watching regularly updates on CNN International! There was no escaping this story, even in the South Pacific. As for my feelings about the political fallout, here is my post from this morning.''
 Also, Mr. Rosen, who founded OffTheBus with Ms. Huffington, has written his own account of the story and Ms. Fowler's unchartered role as a citizen journalist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); INTERNET JOURNALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITIZEN JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); FUNDRAISING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



375 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS It is a big week for economic news, led Wednesday by the Consumer Price Index for March and the Federal Reserve's beige book report. They should give a snapshot of economic growth versus inflation. 
 Other reports will include retail sales for March and business inventories for February (Monday); the Producer Price Index for March (Tuesday); March housing starts and industrial production and capacity utilization for March (Wednesday); and leading economic indicators for March (Thursday).
 EARNINGS REPORTS First-quarter earnings season gets into full swing with reports from Charles Schwab (Monday); Bear Stearns, Intel, Johnson & Johnson, U.S. Bancorp and Washington Mutual (Tuesday); Abbott Laboratories, AMR, Coca-Cola, eBay, I.B.M., JPMorgan Chase, Sallie Mae and Wells Fargo (Wednesday); Advanced Micro Devices, Bank of New York Mellon, CIT Group, Continental Airlines, E*Trade Financial, General Motors, Google, Media General, Merrill Lynch, New York Times, Nokia, Pfizer, Schering-Plough, Southwest Airlines and United Technologies (Thursday); and Caterpillar, Citigroup, Honeywell, Schlumberger, Wachovia and Xerox (Friday).
 INDUSTRY MEETINGS The Newspaper Association of America will have a conference in Washington (through Wednesday).
 The National Association of Broadcasters will have its annual convention in Las Vegas (Monday through Thursday).
 The Tribune Company will hold a conference call to discuss its business, the first such update since Samuel Zell acquired it in December (Thursday).
 SENTENCING IN FRAUD CASE A federal judge in New York is expected to sentence Samuel Israel III, the founder of the defunct Bayou Group, for his role in defrauding investors out of about $400 million (Monday).
 REGULATORS The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank wrap up their spring meeting in Washington (Monday).
 A House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will conduct a hearing on the Food and Drug Administration and heparin (Tuesday).
 TAX FILING DEADLINE Tuesday is the deadline for filing tax returns or extensions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%); REAL ESTATE (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); INVENTORIES (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (66%); JUDGES (64%); TAX LAW (62%); ANTICOAGULANTS (62%); RETAIL SALES (57%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (83%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (83%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); U S BANCORP (70%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%); SLM CORP (56%); GOOGLE INC (56%); PFIZER INC (56%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (56%); CIT GROUP INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (56%); E TRADE FINANCIAL CORP (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (55%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (55%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF BROADCASTERS (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BK (NYSE) (83%); ABT (SWX) (83%); ABT (NYSE) (83%); ABT (LSE) (83%); ABL (FRA) (83%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); USB (NYSE) (70%); JNJ (NYSE) (70%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); SCHW (NYSE) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%); SLM (NASDAQ) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFEB (BRU) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%); UAL (NYSE) (56%); CIT (NYSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (56%); ETFC (NASDAQ) (56%); GM (NYSE) (56%); LUV (NYSE) (55%); UTX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (70%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008



376 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Housing Woes In U.S. Spread Around Globe

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
DUBLIN -- The collapse of the housing bubble in the United States is mutating into a global phenomenon, with real estate prices swooning from the Irish countryside and the Spanish coast to Baltic seaports and even parts of northern India.
 This synchronized global slowdown, which has become increasingly stark in recent months, is hobbling economic growth worldwide, affecting not just homes but jobs as well.
 In Ireland, Spain, Britain and elsewhere, housing markets that soared over the last decade are falling back to earth. Property analysts predict that some countries, like this one, will face an even more wrenching adjustment than that of the United States, including the possibility that the downturn could become a wholesale collapse.
 To some extent, the world's problems are a result of American contagion. As home financing and credit tightens in response to the crisis that began in the subprime mortgage market, analysts worry that other countries could suffer the mortgage defaults and foreclosures that have afflicted California, Florida and other states. 
 Citing the reverberations of the American housing bust and credit squeeze, the International Monetary Fund last Wednesday cut its forecast for global economic growth this year and warned that the malaise could extend into 2009.
 ''The problems in the U.S. are being transmitted to Europe,'' said Michael Ball, professor of urban and property economics at the University of Reading in Britain, who studies housing prices. ''What's happening now is an awful lot more grief than we expected.''
 For countries like Ireland, where prices were even more inflated than in the United States, it has been a painful education, as homeowners learn the American vocabulary of misery.
 ''We know we're already in negative equity,'' said Emma Linnane, a 31-year-old university administrator. 
 She bought a cozy, one-bedroom apartment in the Dublin suburbs with her fiance, Paul Colgan, in May 2006, at the peak of the market. They paid $575,000 -- at least $100,000 more than it would fetch today. ''I sometimes get shivers thinking about it,'' Ms. Linnane said, ''but I'll let the reality hit me when I go to sell it.''
 That reality is spreading. Once-sizzling housing markets in Eastern Europe and the Baltic states are cooling rapidly, as nervous Western Europeans stop buying investment properties in Warsaw, Tallinn, Estonia and other real estate Klondikes.
 Further east, in India and southern China, prices are no longer surging. With stock markets down sharply after reaching heady levels, people do not have as much cash to buy property. Sales of apartments in Hong Kong, a normally hyperactive market, have slowed recently, with prices for mass-market flats starting to drop.
 In New Delhi and other parts of northern India, prices have fallen 20 percent over the last year. Sanjay Dutt, an executive director in the Mumbai office of Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate firm, describes it as an erosion of confidence.
 Much of the retrenchment seems to be following the basic law of gravity: what goes up must come down. With low interest rates helping to inflate housing bubbles in many countries, economists said the confluence of falling prices was predictable, if unsettling.
 This is not the first housing downturn to cross borders, but its reverberations have been amplified by the integration of financial markets. When faulty American mortgages end up on the books of European banks, the problems of the United States aggravate the world's problems.
 Consider Britain, which had one of Europe's most robust housing markets, with less of an oversupply than in Ireland or Spain. Then last summer came the subprime crisis across the Atlantic.
 Within two months, mortgage approvals dropped 31 percent, compared with the previous year. And by March, average housing prices had fallen 2.5 percent, the largest monthly decline since 1992.
 ''The boom in house prices was actually much bigger here than in the U.S.,'' said Kelvin Davidson, an economist at Capital Economics in London. ''If anything, people should be more worried than in the U.S.''
 Britain has one of the most developed home-financing industries, not far behind that of the United States. The amount of outstanding mortgage debt, as a share of total economic output, is higher there than in the United States, according to a study by the International Monetary Fund. 
 ''The U.K. followed the U.S. into never-never land, pushing mortgages out the door, believing that prices would go up forever,'' said Allan Saunderson, the managing editor of Property Finance Europe, a newsletter for investors.
 Still, the problems in Britain pale next to those of Spain and Ireland. Residential investment accounts for 12 percent of the Irish economy and 9 percent of the Spanish economy, compared with 5 percent in Britain and 4 percent in the United States, according to the I.M.F.
 The glut of housing has brought new construction to a standstill, driving up unemployment and dimming the prospects for two of Europe's stellar performers over the last decade.
 ''We're waking up from the property dream and finding ourselves in a situation where prices are falling in Spain for the first time,'' said Fernando Encinar, a founder of Idealista.com, a real estate Web site.
 In Spain, more than four million homes were built in the last decade, more than in Germany, Britain and France combined. Average house prices tripled in parts of the country, as Spain's torrid economy attracted immigrants and Northern Europeans snapped up holiday homes along the Costa del Sol.
 Now, though, thousands of those houses stand empty. The I.M.F. estimates that property is overvalued by more than 15 percent. With mortgages drying up and prices swooning, speculators who once viewed Spanish property as a no-lose proposition are confronting hard reality.
 In 2005, Julian Felipe Fernandez bought three small apartments, as an investment, in a huge development being built outside Madrid. He paid 100,000 euros as a deposit for the units, and now he is eager to sell them to avoid having to taking on a costly mortgage. But with the market stalled, Mr. Fernandez's asking price is what he paid for them.
 ''Three years ago, it looked like I would be able to flip them for a nice profit before they were finished,'' he said. ''I just want to get them off my hands, to get rid of this headache.''
 If he unloads them, he will be lucky. Enric Bueno, head of marketing for Ibusa, a real estate company in Barcelona, said his firm was closing six or seven sales a month, compared with 40 a month a year ago. 
 ''Things are really bad,'' Mr. Bueno said. ''If this goes on for five years, we won't make it.''
 Economists have been busy cutting their growth forecasts for Spain, with a few saying that it may stagnate this summer. BBVA, a leading Spanish bank, forecasts that unemployment will rise to an average of 11 percent this year, from 8.6 percent in 2007.
 Such cutbacks are well under way in Ireland, where the taxi drivers complain that their ranks are being swollen by laid-off home builders. The housing collapse has brought an abrupt end to more than a decade of pell-mell growth that earned Ireland the nickname ''the Celtic tiger.''
 Today, the mood in this country feels like a wake, and not an Irish one. Average house prices fell 7 percent last year, the most in Europe, according to the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, a British real estate group. They are likely to fall by a similar amount this year.
 After a 16-year boom that was interrupted only briefly after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, Ireland has the most overvalued housing market among developed countries, according to the I.M.F. In its recent economic outlook, the fund calculated that prices are 30 percent higher than they should be, given Ireland's economic fundamentals.
 For many Irish, accepting that reality is like passing through the seven stages of grief. Some homeowners are still in denial, brokers said, asking $5 million for houses worth no more than $4 million. But developers have begun cutting prices for smaller apartments like the one owned by Emma Linnane.
 ''Last year was our 'wake up in the middle of the night with sweat pouring down your face' period,'' said David Bewley, a director at the Lisney real estate agency. ''Now we've grown up.''
 Not all the omens are negative. Mr. Bewley said houses were selling again, albeit for 25 percent less. Ireland has not yet suffered widespread incidences of defaulting mortgages or foreclosures in this downturn, in part because lenders have not been as aggressive as those in the United States. 
 But some worry that the housing meltdown could spoil Ireland's recipe for success. Like Spain, it attracted lots of foreign workers, many of whom came for well-paying jobs in the construction industry. That fueled the Irish rental market, which has remained buoyant and been a source of income for Ireland's many real estate speculators.
 ''If the immigrants go back home, will this hurt the rental market?'' asked Ronan O'Driscoll, a director in the Dublin office of Savills, a real estate firm. ''If that happens, it would definitely cause foreclosures.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Emma Linnane in her apartment in Dublin. Its value has declined by $100,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEREK SPEIRS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A10) GRAPH: Residential investment as a percentage of gross domestic product. *2007 second-quarter data used for Belgium, Germany, Ireland, Netherlands and Britain. All other data from 2007 third quarter. (Source: International Monetary Fund staff calculations) (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (91%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (58%) NORTH INDIA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (51%) UNITED STATES (97%); SPAIN (94%); INDIA (94%); IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (93%); ESTONIA (91%); CHINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); POLAND (78%); NETHERLANDS (77%); BELGIUM (74%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); GERMANY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010



377 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2008

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 3150 words

HEADLINE: The Muck Stops Here

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH and ANDREA BROTHMAN


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students research famous journalists and engage in a fishbowl discussion about the importance of a free press in American society. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students research famous journalists and engage in a fishbowl discussion about the importance of a free press in American society.
Author(s):
Sarah Kavanagh, The New York Times Learning Network
Andrea Brothman, Bank Street College of Education in New York
Suggested Time Allowance: 1 hour.
Objectives:
1. Examine the front page of The New York Times, looking for articles that would not be printed in a society without a free press.
 2. Discuss the rights and responsibilities of the American free press by reading and discussing "Chasing the News: Mark Twain's Inkwell to Blogger's Slippers."
 3. Research famous journalists and engage in a fishbowl discussion about the importance of the American free press.
 4. Write letters to the curators of the Newseum in Washington, D.C., nominating journalists to be included in an exhibit. 
Resources / Materials:
Pens/pencils
Paper
Student journals
Classroom board
Red markers (one per pair)
Copies of any edition of The New York Times (one per student)
Computers with Internet access (if possible)
Copies of the article (one per student) 
Activities / Procedures:
1. Warm-Up/Do-Now: Upon arriving, split the class into pairs and supply each pair with a red marker and a copy of the front page of The New York Times. Instruct students to draw an X over any article that would not or could not be published if the newspaper were controlled by the government. 
Once this activity has been completed, have each pair hold up the marked copy so the rest of the class can see. Have everyone look around the room to see how many articles would not be published if we did not have freedom of the press and our government controlled the news. Ask: What might make news feel or be threatening to a government or a leader? What does "freedom of the press" mean? What provides that right in the United States? Do you think freedom of the press is an important right? Why or why not? How would our society be different if we did not have freedom of the press? If necessary, familiarize students with the text of the First Amendment. Then tell them that a museum has opened that chronicles and celebrates the freedom of the press in the United States and that they are about to read an article about the museum, called the Newseum. 
2. As a class, read and discuss focusing on the following questions:
 a. What does Edward Rothstein, the author of the article, mean when he says the Newseum "lays claim to the public interest and then insists upon it"?
 b. Which of the artifacts mentioned in the article would you most like to see? Why?
 c. Why do you think that there are "accelerating layoffs in the print-news business and worries about the very future of newspapers"? 
 d. What do you think Mr. Rothstein is alluding to when he says that there are "problems that accompany th[e] posture" that "nothing is not news"? Do you agree? Why or why not?
 e. What do you think Mr. Rothstein means when he says "the 4-D show is more sensation than substance, but how often can that be said of newsprint as well"?
 f. What do you think Mark Twain meant when he said that being a journalist was "awful slavery for a lazy man"?
 g. Do you agree with Thomas Jefferson's quote? Why or why not?
 h. What do you think Mr. Rothstein means when he says that "sometimes the most difficult task is to report accurately despite one's vision of the good or one's desire to change the world"?
 i. What would you be most interested in seeing at the Newseum and why? 
3. Explain to students that to better understand the importance of freedom of the press in the United States, they will work in small groups of three to five students each to research famous journalists who have made an impact on American life by asking tough questions of people, government or industries. After completing their research, students will take on the persona of their assigned journalist to discuss issues in journalism. 
Assign each group a famous journalist to research. Some journalists to consider including are the following: 

        
Ida Tarbell
        
Upton Sinclair
        
Nellie Bly
        
Edward R. Murrow
        
Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein
        
Rachel Carson
        
Jacob Riis
        
Joseph Pulitzer
        
Walter Cronkite
        
Katherine Graham
        
Helen Thomas
        
Dith Pran
        
Ernie Pyle
        
Seymour Hersh
Guiding Questions for Research (written on the board or copied into a handout): 

        
When did this journalist live and report?
        
What did he or she investigate that made him or her famous?
        
What were his or her findings?
        
Were there forces that got in the way of his or her work? Why?
        
What changed as a result of this journalist's work?
Once students have completed their research, inform them that they will be engaging in a fishbowl discussion with their classmates. Have each group create a logo that includes the name of their assigned journalist and write it on a name tag. Each group should pick one member to go first for the fishbowl discussion, and this student should wear the name tag and sit with all the name-tag-wearing students from the other groups in the middle of a circle created by the rest of the students. 
In a fishbowl discussion, the students in the center are the only ones allowed to speak. If a student from the outer circle wants to add to the discussion, he or she must move to the middle of the circle, subtly ask for the name tag and take that student's place as the new group member in the discussion. After discussing the first question, have all students in the center switch name tags with another member of the group. Be sure to switch topics enough times so all students have the opportunity to be in the center of the discussion at least once. 
Questions to pose to the "journalists" include:

        
What has your work taught you about the importance of a free press?
        
Do you believe that you are or were responsible chiefly to the public, the government or your own personal interests when investigating and writing? Why?
        
What do you think is the most important job of journalists and the press in general?
        
Do you think that there is any information that is "too dangerous" to print? Why or why not?
        
What risks did you take in revealing a story? Were those risks worth it? Why or why not?
        
The news media is undergoing drastic changes because of opportunities for independent journalism on blogs, the ability to constantly update stories online and because many people prefer to read news online. What do you think about that? Will those factors change journalism for the better or the worse? Why?
4. Wrap-Up/Homework: Tell students to imagine a new Newseum exhibit honoring famous journalists throughout history. Individually, students write letters to the curators at the Newseum nominating a journalist for inclusion in this exhibit. How did this journalist have an impact on society, government, etc.? How did the First Amendment allow him or her to do his or her work? Each letter should be accompanied by a list of proposed artifacts (photographs, pictures, objects, cartoons, charts, letters, etc.) that the curators might want to include in the exhibit along with the letter. 
Further Questions for Discussion:

        
Are there any drawbacks to having a free press? If so, what are they?
        
How should newspapers and other news sources decide what is newsworthy?
        
Is it always important that journalists include all sides of an issue in news stories? Why or why not?
        
Are there significant differences between journalism and blogging? If so, what are those differences? If not, why not?
        
How do you prefer to get your news and stay informed? Why?
        
Is the news media an appropriate focus for a museum? Why or why not?
        
How has your life been affected by the news and the news media?
Evaluation / Assessment: Students will be evaluated based on their initial participation in The New York Times cover page search, their participation in class and small group discussions, their thorough research into their assigned journalists, their thoughtful participation in the fishbowl discussion and their creative completion of letters to imagined Newseum curators. 
Vocabulary: much-heralded, acolytes, newshounds, advocates, imposing, facade, inaugural, array, scripturally, clamor, atrium, boast, blogger, broadsheet, proclaiming, interactive, blitz, asylum, marshaling, recession, accelerating, ferocity, supplement, morphed, hawking, earnestly, deft, edutainment, recounting, puffery, testimonials, distortions, mar, frauds, perpetrated, civil, hoaxes, plausible, gaffes, preening, skepticism, intrinsically, politic, wrestle, transparency, succumbs, cloaking, virtuous, mantle, miscellaneous, concessions, reforms, noble, inevitably, fallible, enterprise. 
Extension Activities:
1. Pick an issue that the journalist you studied in class might care about now (for example, since Upton Sinclair investigated the meat-packing industry, perhaps he would care about the hormones in our meats or another meat-industry issue). Write an article in the voice of this journalist addressing the contemporary issue.
 2. Pose a question about freedom of the press to a Times journalist by visiting . 
3. Pick an issue about which you have a very strong opinion. Write an objective article about this issue and give all sides of the issue their due. Then write a reflection on the process. Was it hard to keep your personal feelings out of the article? Why or why not? Did the process of writing the article change your mind about anything? Did it help clarify your own position? If so, how?
4. Write a handbook for your school newspaper explaining the federal and state laws that protect and limit the freedom of the student press. A good place to start is Student Press Law Center Web site: splc.org. 
5. Create a timeline that notes and discusses moments in American history when restrictions have been placed on the free press. 
Interdisciplinary Connections
Fine Arts: Write a headline for an expos written by your assigned journalist from the class activity. Create the art to accompany this headline and article. This can be a photograph, political cartoon or drawing, but it must address the topic of the expos and support its content.
Global History: Pick a country that does not have freedom of the press and write a paper discussing the role of the news media in this country. Countries to consider include North Korea, China and Iran. (To research, check the Reporters Without Borders Web site: rsf.org/rubrique.php3?id_rubrique=20.) How is the news media regulated by the government? Are there alternate sources of news that are resisting governmental restrictions? How do these sources reach the people?
Media Studies: Watch the documentary "Control Room" and discuss the issues brought up in the film.
Teaching With The Times: Read The Times for two weeks and clip all articles that would not be published if we did not have a free press. Create a bulletin board with these articles and with quotes about the importance of a free press to teach other students about their rights under the Constitution. To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here. 
Other Information on the Web:
The Student Press Law Center Web site, splc.org, offers information about the rights of and restrictions on student journalists.
The Bill of Rights Institute Web site, billofrightsinstitute.org, hosts information for teachers and students about the Bill of Rights.
Reporters Without Borders, an organization for press freedom, has a Web site at .
The goal of the American Civil Liberties Union (aclu.org) is to preserve the protections provided by the Bill of Rights and the 13th, 14th, 15th and 19th Amendments to the United States Constitution.
The official Web site of the Newseum is newseum.org.
The Society of Professional Journalists (spj.org) is, according to its Web site, is "dedicated to encouraging the free practice of journalism and stimulating high standards. ...SPJ promotes the free flow of information vital to a well-informed citizenry; works to inspire and educate current and future journalists through professional development; and protects First Amendment guarantees of freedom of speech and press through its advocacy efforts."
Academic Content Standards
Grades 6 to 8 

United States History Standard 8: Understands the institutions and practices of government created during the Revolution and how these elements were revised between 1787 and 1815 to create the foundation of the American political system based on the United States Constitution and the Bill of Rights. Benchmark: Understands arguments over the necessity of a Bill of Rights.
Civics Standard 9: Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs, and principles of American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Identifies fundamental values and principles that are expressed in basic documents, significant political speeches and writings, and individual and group actions that embody fundamental values and principles; understands how certain values are fundamental to American public life.
Civics Standard 11: Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society. Benchmarks: Knows a variety of forms of diversity in American society; knows major conflicts in American society that have arisen from diversity; knows how an American's identity stems from belief in and allegiance to shared political values and principles, and how this identity differs from that of most other nations, which often base identity on things like ethnicity, race, religion, class, language, gender or national origin; knows basic values and principles that Americans share; knows why it is important to the individual and society that Americans understand and act on their shared political values and principles.
Civics Standard 18: Understands the role and importance of law in the American constitutional system and issues regarding the judicial protection of individual rights. Benchmarks: Understands the importance of the rule of law in establishing limits on those who govern and the governed, protecting individual rights and promoting the common good; knows historical and contemporary examples of the rule of law.
Language Arts Standard 1: Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses style and structure appropriate for specific audiences and purposes; writes expository compositions; writes persuasive compositions.
Language Arts Standard 7: Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Applies reading skills and strategies to a variety of informational texts; summarizes and paraphrases complex, explicit hierarchic structures in informational texts; uses new information to adjust and extend personal knowledge base; identifies techniques used to convey viewpoint; seeks peer help to understand information; draws conclusions and makes inferences based on explicit and implicit information in texts; differentiates between fact and opinion in informational texts.
Language Arts Standard 8: Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Plays a variety of roles in group discussions; asks questions to seek elaboration and clarification of ideas; listens to understand a speaker's topic, purpose and perspective; conveys a clear main point when speaking to others and stays on the topic being discussed.
Grades 9 to 12
United States History Standard 8: Understands the institutions and practices of government created during the Revolution and how these elements were revised between 1787 and 1815 to create the foundation of the American political system based on the United States Constitution and the Bill of Rights. Benchmarks: Understands influences on the ideas established by the Constitution; understands the Bill of Rights and various challenges to it.
Civics Standard 9: Understands the importance of Americans sharing and supporting certain values, beliefs and principles of American constitutional democracy. Benchmarks: Understands how the institutions of government reflect fundamental values and principles; understands the interdependence among certain values and principles; understands the significance of fundamental values and principles for the individual and society.
Civics Standard 11: Understands the role of diversity in American life and the importance of shared values, political beliefs and civic beliefs in an increasingly diverse American society. Benchmarks: Knows how the racial, religious, socioeconomic, regional, ethnic and linguistic diversity of American society has influenced American politics through time; knows different viewpoints regarding the role and value of diversity in American life; knows examples of conflicts stemming from diversity and understands how some conflicts have been managed and why some of them have not yet been successfully resolved; knows why constitutional values and principles must be adhered to when managing conflicts over diversity; knows beliefs that are common to American political culture; knows how shared ideas and values of American political culture are reflected in various sources and documents. Civics Standard 18: Understands the role and importance of law in the American constitutional system and issues regarding the judicial protection of individual rights. Benchmarks: Understands how the rule of law makes possible a system of ordered liberty that protects the basic rights of citizens; knows historical and contemporary practices that illustrate the central place of the rule of law; knows historical and contemporary illustrations of the idea of equal protection of the laws for all persons.
Language Arts Standard 1: Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that fulfill different purposes; writes expository compositions; writes persuasive compositions that evaluate, interpret and speculate about problems and solutions, causes and effects.
Language Arts Standard 7: Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. Benchmarks: Applies reading skills and strategies to a variety of informational texts; summarizes and paraphrases complex, implicit hierarchic structures in informational texts, including the relationships among the concepts and details in those structures; uses new information from texts to clarify or refine understanding of academic concepts; uses discussions with peers as a way of understanding information. Language Arts Standard 8: Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning. Benchmarks: Asks questions as a way to broaden and enrich classroom discussions; adjusts message wording and delivery to particular audiences and for particular purposes.

        
Chasing the News: Mark Twain's Inkwell to Blogger's Slippers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (88%); HISTORY (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (74%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (66%) American History; Civics; History of North America; Individual Rights; Journalism; Journalistic Writing; Language Arts; The Influence of the Mass Media

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NEWSEUM INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2011



378 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Retailing chains caught in a wave of Bankruptcies

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
The consumer spending slump and tightening credit markets are unleashing a widening wave of bankruptcies in American retailing, prompting thousands of store closings that are expected to remake suburban malls and downtown shopping districts across the country. 
 Since last fall, eight mostly midsize chains -- as diverse as the furniture store Levitz and the electronics seller Sharper Image -- have filed for bankruptcy protection as they staggered under mounting debt and declining sales.
 But the troubles are quickly spreading to bigger national companies, like Linens 'n Things, the bedding and furniture retailer with 500 stores in 47 states. It may file for bankruptcy as early as this week, according to people briefed on the matter. 
 Even retailers that can avoid bankruptcy are shutting down stores to preserve cash through what could be a long economic downturn. Over the next year, Foot Locker said it would close 140 stores, Ann Taylor will start to shutter 117, and the jeweler Zales will close 100. 
 The surging cost of necessities has led to a national belt-tightening among consumers. Figures released on Monday showed that spending on food and gasoline is crowding out other purchases, leaving people with less to spend on furniture, clothing and electronics. Consequently, chains specializing in those goods are proving vulnerable.
 Retailing is a business with big ups and downs during the year, and retailers rely heavily on borrowed money to finance their purchases of merchandise and even to meet payrolls during slow periods. Yet the nation's banks, struggling with the growing mortgage crisis, have started to balk at extending new loans, effectively cutting up the retail industry's collective credit cards. 
 ''You have the makings of a wave of significant bankruptcies,'' said Al Koch, who helped bring Kmart out of bankruptcy in 2003 as the company's interim chief financial officer and works at a corporate turnaround firm called AlixPartners. 
 ''For years, no deal was too ugly to finance,'' he said. ''But now, nobody will throw money at these companies.''
 Because retailers rely on a broad network of suppliers, their bankruptcies are rippling across the economy. The cash-short chains are leaving behind tens of millions of dollars in unpaid bills to shipping companies, furniture manufacturers, mall owners and advertising agencies. Many are unlikely to be paid in full, spreading the economic pain.
 When it filed for bankruptcy, Sharper Image owed $6.6 million to United Parcel Service. The furniture chain Levitz owed Sealy $1.4 million. 
 And it is not just large companies that are absorbing the losses. When Domain, the furniture retailer, filed for bankruptcy, it owed On Time Express, a 90-employee transportation and logistics company in Tempe, Ariz., about $30,000. 
 ''We'll be lucky to see pennies on the dollar, if we see anything,'' said Ross Musil, the chief financial officer of On Time Express. ''It's a big loss.''
 Most of the ailing companies have filed for reorganization, not liquidation, under the bankruptcy laws, including the furniture chain Wickes, the housewares seller Fortunoff, Harvey Electronics and the catalog retailer Lillian Vernon. But, in a contrast with previous recessions, many are unlikely to emerge from bankruptcy, lawyers and industry experts said. 
 Changes in the federal bankruptcy code in 2005 significantly tightened deadlines for ailing companies to restructure their businesses, offering them less leeway. 
 And the changes may force companies to pay suppliers before paying wages or honoring obligations to customers, like redeeming gift cards, said Sally Henry, a partner in the bankruptcy law practice at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom and the author of several books on bankruptcy.
 As a result, she said, ''it's no longer reorganization or even liquidation for these companies. In many cases, it's evaporation.''
 Several of the retailers that filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection over the last eight months, like the furniture sellers Bombay, Levitz and Domain, have begun to wind down -- closing stores, laying off workers and liquidating merchandise. 
 In most cases, the collapses stemmed from a combination of factors: flawed business strategies, a souring economy and banks' unwillingness to issue cheap loans.
 Bombay, a chain with 360 stores, was considered a success in the furniture world, after its sales surged from $393 million in 1999 to $596 million in 2003. 
 Then the chain decided to move most of its stores out of enclosed malls into open-air shopping centers. It started a children's furniture business, called BombayKids. And it started carrying bigger items, like beds and upholstered couches, with higher prices than its regular furniture. 
 Consumers balked at the changes, hurting Bombay's sales and profits at the same time that its expenses for the ambitious new strategies began to grow. The timing was unenviable: By early 2007, the housing market began to falter, so purchases of furniture slowed to a trickle. 
 The company was running out of money, but banks refused to lend more. ''They did not want to take the chance that we might not repay the loans,'' Elaine D. Crowley, the chief financial officer, said in an interview. 
 In September 2007, Bombay filed for bankruptcy protection. The highest bid for the company came from liquidation firms, who quickly dismembered the 33-year-old chain. Bombay, which once employed 3,608, now has 20 employees left. ''It is very difficult and sad,'' Ms. Crowley said.
 The bankruptcies are putting a spotlight on a little-discussed facet of retailing: heavy debt. 
 Stores may appear to mint money by paying $2 for a T-shirt and charging $10 for it. But because shopping is based on weather patterns and fashion trends, retailers must pay for merchandise that may sit, unsold, on shelves for long periods. 
 So chains regularly borrow large sums to cover routine expenses, like wages and electricity bills. When sales are strong, as they typically are during the holiday season, the debts are repaid. 
 Fortunoff, a jewelry and home furnishing chain in the Northeast, relied on $90 million in loans to help operate its 23 stores, using merchandise as collateral. 
 But by early 2008, as the housing market struggled, the chain's profits dropped, meaning its collateral was losing value and the amount it could borrow fell.
 In better economic times, the banks might have granted Fortunoff a reprieve. But with a recession looming, they refused, forcing it to file for bankruptcy in February. In filings, the chain said it was ''facing a liquidity crisis.'' (Fortunoff was later sold to the owner of Lord & Taylor.)
 Plenty of retailers remain on strong footing. Arnold H. Aronson, the former chief executive of Saks Fifth Avenue and a managing director at Kurt Salmon Associates, a retail consulting firm, said the credit tightness and consumer spending slowdown have only wiped out the ''bottom tier'' companies in retailing.
 ''This recession dealt the final blow to these chains,'' he said. But several big-name chains are looking vulnerable. Linens 'n Things, which is owned by Apollo Management, a private equity firm, is considering a bankruptcy filing after years of poor performance and mounting debts, though it has additional options, people involved in the discussions said Monday. 
 Whether more chains file for bankruptcy or not, it will be hard to miss the impact of the industry's troubles in the nation's malls.
 J. C. Penney, Lowe's and Office Depot are scaling back or delaying expansion. Office Depot had planned to open 150 stores this year; now it will open 75. 
 The International Council of Shopping Centers, a trade group, estimates there will be 5,770 store closings in 2008, up 25 percent from 2007, when there were 4,603.
 Charming Shoppes, which owns the women's clothing retailers Lane Bryant and Fashion Bug, is closing at least 150 stores. Wilsons the Leather Experts will close 158. And Pacific Sunwear is shutting a 153-store chain called Demo.
 Those decisions were made months ago, when it was unclear how long the downturn in consumer spending might last. If March was any indication, it is nowhere near over. Sales at stores open at least a year fell 0.5 percent, the worst performance in 13 years, according to the shopping council. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: To avoid bankruptcy some chains are shutting stores. Foot Locker said it would close 140 stores over the next year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A21) CHART: Going Out of Business: After three relatively mild years, retail store closings are expected to rise this year.(Source: International Council of Shopping Centers) Chart details bar graph for 7,000 store closings. (pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (91%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); FURNITURE STORES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); BED BATH & LINEN SHOPS (78%); JEWELRY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); FURNITURE MFG (72%); SUBURBS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: TSIC INC (57%); LINENS 'N THINGS INC (57%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (59%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (57%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (51%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



379 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Technology Smooths the Way for Home Wind-Power Turbines

BYLINE: By JOHN CASEY

 BODY:
Wind turbines, once used primarily for farms and rural houses far from electrical service, are becoming more common in heavily populated residential areas as homeowners are attracted to ease of use, financial incentives and low environmental effects. 
 No one tracks the number of small-scale residential wind turbines -- windmills that run turbines to produce electricity -- in the United States. Experts on renewable energy say a convergence of factors, political, technical and ecological, has caused a surge in the use of residential wind turbines, especially in the Northeast and California. 
 ''Back in the early days, off-grid electrical generation was pursued mostly by hippies and rednecks, usually in isolated, rural areas,'' said Joe Schwartz, editor of Home Power magazine. ''Now, it's a lot more mainstream.'' 
 ''The big shift happened in the last three years,'' Mr. Schwartz said, because of technology that makes it possible to feed electricity back to the grid, the commercial power system fed by large utilities. ''These new systems use the utility for back up power, removing the need for big, expensive battery backup systems.'' 
 Some of the ''plug and play'' systems can be plugged directly into a circuit in the home electrical panel. Homeowners can use energy from the wind turbine or the power company without taking action.
 Federal wind energy incentives introduced after the oil crisis of the late 1970s helped drive large-scale turbine use. But the federal government does not currently provide a tax credit for residential-scale wind energy, as it does for residential solar applications, according to the American Wind Energy Association, a trade group for wind-power developers and equipment manufacturers. 
 A number of states, however, have incentive programs. In New York, ''we have incentive levels for different installations, but a homeowner could expect to get approximately $4,000 per electric meter for a wind turbine,'' said Paul Tonko, president of the New York State Renewable Energy Development Authority, which administers the state's renewable energy incentives. ''That would cover about 30 to 40 percent of the project cost.''
 ''Certainly, the technology has improved, and the cost per project is coming down,'' Mr. Tonko said. ''Turbines for farms and residential applications are seeing much more activity.''
 States have also enacted so-called net metering laws that require utilities to buy excess power made by a residential turbine at retail rather than wholesale prices. ''Many of the barriers to residential turbines have been lowered, but net-metering removes what may be the biggest barrier,'' said Jim Green, a senior project leader at the Wind Technology Center, part of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colo. 
 ''Along with state incentives, net metering entirely changes the economics of residential wind generation,'' Mr. Green said. 
 Ecological concerns, more than cost savings may drive many new residential turbine installations. ''People want to reduce their carbon footprints,'' Mr. Tonko said. ''They're concerned about climate change and they want to reduce our reliance of foreign sources of fuels.'' 
 Mr. Schwartz, the editor, said that even with the economic benefits, it can take 20 years to pay back the installation cost. 
 ''This isn't about people putting turbines in to lower their electric bills as much as it is about people voting with their dollars to help the environment in some small way,'' he said. 
 Despite growing interest, some hurdles will not change. Whether a residential turbine saves a money or just eases ecological guilt depends largely on the wind . The wind energy available in any given location is called the ''wind resource.''
 Even if the wind is strong, zoning and aesthetics can pose problems. ''Turbines work in rural areas with strong wind,'' Mr. Schwartz said. ''But in urban and suburban areas, neighbors are never happy to see a 60- to 120-foot tower going up across the street.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about the growing use of residential wind turbines to produce electricity misstated the name of the New York State agency whose president, Paul Tonko, commented on renewable energy incentives for the turbines. It is the Energy Research and Development Authority, not the Renewable Energy Development Authority.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: POWER PLAY: A residential wind generator that has built-in controls and an inverter. Some ''plug and play'' systems plug directly into the home panel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SKYSTREAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (92%); WIND POWER PLANTS (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (79%); POWER PLANTS (79%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); OIL & GAS INCENTIVES (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); ENERGY RESEARCH (71%); WHOLESALE PRICES (68%); TAX LAW (64%)

PERSON: PAUL TONKO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



380 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Indexes Post Small Drops, But Banks Take Bigger Hits

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks finished a quiet session moderately lower Monday after Wachovia surprised investors with disappointing quarterly results.
 Wachovia posted a first-quarter loss of $393 million and cut its quarterly dividend by 41 percent, to 37.5 cents. The bank, which analysts had expected to post a profit, also said it planned to raise $7 billion through a stock offering.
 Oil prices, meanwhile, rose $1.62, to settle at a record $111.76 a barrel Monday, as the dollar fell and crude supplies were disrupted in the United States and overseas. 
 Gasoline prices edged lower, to $3.373 a gallon, 0.1 cent shy of a record set Sunday, according to a survey of stations by AAA and the Oil Price Information Service. But gasoline appeared poised to resume its upward trek. Forecasts call for a peak as high as $3.65 a gallon within a month.
 Still, investors appeared to find some encouragement in the session from a better-than-expected report on retail sales. The Commerce Department's reading on March retail sales, which showed a modest 0.2 percent rise after February's 0.6 percent decline, appeared to ease some anxiety about the economy. Analysts had expected the March figure to be flat.
 Excluding a 1.1 percent rise at gasoline service stations, retail sales would have been flat last month -- and possibly negative when adjusted for inflation.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 23.36 points, or 0.19 percent, to 12,302.06. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 4.51, or 0.34 percent, to 1,328.32, and the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index fell 14.42, or 0.63 percent, to 2,275.82.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies fell 2.09, or 0.30 percent, to 686.07.
 Investors sold off financial stocks, led by Wachovia, which fell $2.26, or 8 percent, to $25.55. Citigroup, which is to report its quarterly results Friday, fell 85 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $22.51.
 Ryan Detrick, senior technical strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research, said the Wachovia news compounded investors' concerns about the banking sector after a disappointing report Friday from General Electric. 
 ''This is just more bad news for financials,'' he said. ''It just confirms that the financials are by no means out of the woods yet.'' 
 Mr. Detrick said many investors were holding off major moves ahead of corporate results and inflation figures due this week.
 In deal-making news, Blockbuster said it was taking an unsolicited $1-billion-plus bid for Circuit City Stores, the consumer electronics chain, directly to shareholders. Blockbuster said that Circuit City had dragged out a deal that had been under negotiations for months. Circuit City jumped $1.07, or 27 percent, to $4.97, while Blockbuster fell 32 cents, or 10 percent, to $2.81.
 And in a sign that the slumping United States economy was hurting companies overseas, Royal Philips Electronics reported a sharp drop in first-quarter profits as a decrease in television sales in North America offset growth in its health care and lighting businesses.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 8/32, to 99 29/32. Its yield, which moves opposite its price, rose to 3.51 percent, from 3.47 percent.
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute-by-minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. Chart details a line graph for daily activity.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction.(Source: The Bond Buyer)Chart details line graph for Jan/Mar highlights. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (83%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); SHAREHOLDERS (79%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (76%); GAS STATIONS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); STOCK OFFERINGS (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (67%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (85%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



381 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: Bond Insurer Ponders Its Options

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
FGIC, a money-losing bond insurer owned by the Blackstone Group and the PMI Group, is seeking investors and may consider selling the company as it approaches a deadline to shore up its capital. 
 FGIC, which reported a $1.89 billion fourth-quarter net loss last month, is considering raising money for a new AAA-rated guarantor that would back only public finance securities, the company said in a statement on Monday. Other options include selling all or part of the business or reinsuring guarantees with a third party, the statement said.
 FGIC is among the most damaged of the bond insurers after straying from its business of guaranteeing municipal bonds into backing securities that relied on subprime mortgage payments. 
 The company lost its AAA credit ratings at Standard & Poor's, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, leaving it scrambling to find new capital and retool its business model.
 A spokesman for the New York State Insurance Department, David Neustadt, said, ''We've told FGIC they need to have a plan for raising capital by about the first week in May. 
 ''We will have to consider alternatives'' if the company does not present a plan, Mr. Neustadt added. He declined to specify the alternatives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); INSURANCE (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); REINSURANCE (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (68%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (54%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



382 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: The Trouble With Salmon

 BODY:
The federal government's decision to shut down commercial salmon fishing from the California coast to north-central Oregon is a blow to local fishermen and the coastal economy. 
 This decision is necessary if there is to be any hope of salmon recovery. It will mean even more if it shocks Congress into a serious investigation of the West Coast salmon crisis, exposes the politically driven policies of the Bush administration and persuades a new president of the need to rebuild wild salmon populations and the economies that depend on them.
 Chinook salmon runs in the Sacramento River in California's Central Valley have collapsed. The numbers of salmon returning to spawn, which had held steady at about 475,000 for several years, dropped to 90,000 last year and were expected to be half that this year. 
 Two factors are suspected. The federal government yielded to the demands of big agricultural interests and diverted so much of the Sacramento's normal river flow to farmers that many baby salmon -- who need free-flowing water to push them downstream -- could not make it to the ocean. Scientists also believe that abnormalities in ocean temperatures, possibly related to global warming, could have deprived the fish who managed to get downstream of their food supply.
 Two other coastal systems, historically rich in salmon, are in trouble. The Klamath River Basin experienced devastating collapses in 2005 and 2006. In the huge Columbia-Snake River Basin, a dozen different varieties of wild salmon are listed as endangered or threatened. In both cases, federal policy that disproportionately favors energy interests and agricultural users is a major factor. Karl Rove himself intervened in the Klamath to make sure the farmers prevailed.
 In the Columbia-Snake system, where dams are a huge problem, a federal district judge in Oregon, James Redden, has rejected three federal recovery plans, including one from the Clinton administration. He has threatened to assume management of the dams if Washington cannot produce an acceptable fish recovery plan. 
 California's Congressional delegation said last week that it would seek as much as $150 million in disaster aid to help coastal fishermen. A long-term salmon recovery plan would be of even greater value.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RIVERS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FISHES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURE (73%); FINFISH FISHING (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); CLIMATOLOGY (71%); OCEANS (66%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (66%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



383 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: Fuel Choices, Food Crises and Finger-Pointing

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN; Elisabeth Rosenthal and Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The idea of turning farms into fuel plants seemed, for a time, like one of the answers to high global oil prices and supply worries. That strategy seemed to reach a high point last year when Congress mandated a fivefold increase in the use of biofuels.
 But now a reaction is building against policies in the United States and Europe to promote ethanol and similar fuels, with political leaders from poor countries contending that these fuels are driving up food prices and starving poor people. Biofuels are fast becoming a new flash point in global diplomacy, putting pressure on Western politicians to reconsider their policies, even as they argue that biofuels are only one factor in the seemingly inexorable rise in food prices.
 In some countries, the higher prices are leading to riots, political instability and growing worries about feeding the poorest people. Food riots contributed to the dismissal of Haiti's prime minister last week, and leaders in some other countries are nervously trying to calm anxious consumers. 
 At a weekend conference in Washington, finance ministers and central bankers of seven leading industrial nations called for urgent action to deal with the price spikes, and several of them demanded a reconsideration of biofuel policies adopted recently in the West. 
 Many specialists in food policy consider government mandates for biofuels to be ill advised, agreeing that the diversion of crops like corn into fuel production has contributed to the higher prices. But other factors have played big roles, including droughts that have limited output and rapid global economic growth that has created higher demand for food.
 That growth, much faster over the last four years than the historical norm, is lifting millions of people out of destitution and giving them access to better diets. But farmers are having trouble keeping up with the surge in demand.
 While there is agreement that the growth of biofuels has contributed to higher food prices, the amount is disputed.
 Work by the International Food Policy Research Institute in Washington suggests that biofuel production accounts for a quarter to a third of the recent increase in global commodity prices. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations predicted late last year that biofuel production, assuming that current mandates continue, would increase food costs by 10 to 15 percent.
 Ethanol supporters maintain that any increase caused by biofuels is relatively small and that energy costs and soaring demand for meat in developing countries have had a greater impact. ''There's no question that they are a factor, but they are really a smaller factor than other things that are driving up prices,'' said Ron Litterer, an Iowa farmer who is president of the National Corn Growers Association.
 He said biofuels were an ''easy culprit to blame'' because their popularity had grown so rapidly in the last two or three years.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, called the recent criticism of ethanol by foreign officials ''a big joke.'' He questioned why they were not also blaming a drought in Australia that reduced the wheat crop and the growing demand for meat in China and India.
 ''You make ethanol out of corn,'' he said. ''I bet if I set a bushel of corn in front of any of those delegates, not one of them would eat it.''
 The senator's comments reflect a political reality in Washington that despite the criticism from abroad, support for ethanol remains solid.
 Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, said he had come to realize that Congress made a mistake in backing biofuels, not anticipating the impact on food costs. He said Congress needed to reconsider its policy, though he acknowledged that would be difficult.
 ''If there was a secret vote, there is a pretty large number of people who would like to reassess what we are doing,'' he said.
 According to the World Bank, global food prices have increased by 83 percent in the last three years. Rice, a staple food for nearly half the world's population, has been a particular focus of concern in recent weeks, with spiraling prices prompting several countries to impose drastic limits on exports as they try to protect domestic consumers.
 While grocery prices in the United States increased about 5 percent over all in the last year, some essential items like eggs and milk have jumped far more. The federal government is expected to release new data on domestic food prices Wednesday, with notable increases expected.
 On Monday, President Bush ordered that $200 million in emergency food aid be made available to ''meet unanticipated food aid needs in Africa and elsewhere,'' a White House statement said.
 His spokeswoman, Dana M. Perino, said the president had urged officials to look for additional ways to help poor nations combat food insecurity and to come up with a long-term plan ''that helps take care of the world's poor and hungry.''
 Skeptics have long questioned the value of diverting food crops for fuel, and the grocery and live- stock industries vehemently opposed an energy bill last fall, arguing it was driving up costs. 
 A fifth of the nation's corn crop is now used to brew ethanol for motor fuel, and as farmers have planted more corn, they have cut acreage of other crops, particularly soybeans. That, in turn, has contributed to a global shortfall of cooking oil.
 Spreading global dissatisfaction in recent months has intensified the food-versus-fuel debate. Last Friday, a European environment advisory panel urged the European Union to suspend its goal of having 10 percent of transportation fuel made from biofuels by 2020. Europe's well-meaning rush to biofuels, the scientists concluded, had created a variety of harmful ripple effects, including deforestation in Southeast Asia and higher prices for grain.
 Even if biofuels are not the primary reason for the increase in food costs, some experts say it is one area where a reversal of government policy could help take pressure off food prices.
 C. Ford Runge, an economist at the University of Minnesota, said it is ''extremely difficult to disentangle'' the effect of biofuels on food costs. Nevertheless, he said there was little that could be done to mitigate the effect of droughts and the growing appetite for protein in developing countries. 
 ''Ethanol is the one thing we can do something about,'' he said. ''It's about the only lever we have to pull, but none of the politicians have the courage to pull the lever.''
 But August Schumacher, a former under secretary of agriculture who is a consultant for the Kellogg Foundation, said the criticism of biofuels might be misdirected. Development agencies like the World Bank and many governments did little to support agricultural development in the last two decades, he said. 
 He noted that many of the upheavals over food prices abroad have concerned rice and wheat, neither of which is used as a biofuel. For both those crops, global demand has soared at the same time that droughts suppressed the output from farms.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about the effect of biofuels on the price of food misidentified the representatives who criticized Western biofuel policy during a meeting in Washington last weekend on global economic issues. Much of the criticism came from representatives of poor countries that have been hit hard by rising food prices. It did not come from the finance ministers or central bankers of seven leading industrial countries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Diversion of grain to fuel has helped increase prices worldwide, adding to pressures on farmers like this one in a rice field in Laos.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN MOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
 Cheap rice is sold from a government caravan in Quezon City, the Philippines. Rice prices have risen sharply, prompting poor countries in particular to try to protect their consumers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE F. ALQUINTO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (93%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); BIOMASS (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); 2008 GLOBAL FOOD CRISIS (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); ETHANOL (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); CORN MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STARVATION (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLITICS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); MEATS (73%); RIOTS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); CENTRAL BANKS (52%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); HAITI (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



384 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'SICK AROUND THE WORLD'; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Lower Insurance Premiums and Better Care: Un-American Health Delivery

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
If your latest battle with your H.M.O. has you pounding your head with frustration, ''Sick Around the World'' on PBS may spur you to more drastic action, like leaving the United States altogether.
 In this ''Frontline'' report on Tuesday night, the Washington Post reporter T. R. Reid travels to five countries -- Britain, Japan, Germany, Taiwan and Switzerland -- that manage to provide some form of universal health coverage to their populations. In each nation, he reports, insurance premiums are significantly lower than those in America (in Britain there are none), and the waiting time to see a doctor is either tolerable (in Britain) or nonexistent. 
 This fast-moving and entertaining hour starts from the premise that the American health care system, with its high costs, multiple gatekeepers and failure to provide insurance for much of the population, is a failure. And Mr. Reid makes the case (in about 10 minutes per country) that other capitalist democracies have not just cheaper and more equally available health care, but also better care over all, with longer life expectancies and lower infant mortality rates. The clinics and hospitals he visits may not be as spacious and well buffed as those in American suburbs, but surveys of these countries' citizens -- the actual consumers of care -- show rates of satisfaction that should make American providers blush.
 How do they do it? The British, of course, have done it by nationalizing the medical profession, and Mr. Reid, who's on the lookout for ideas that will work in the United States, admits that this one's a nonstarter. In the other countries, however, the systems -- doctors, hospitals, insurers -- are for the most part private, and the difference lies in government regulation that is heavy by current American standards but far short of socialism. 
 The key factors, Mr. Reid determines, are mandatory coverage (only in Germany are the rich allowed to opt out of the national insurance system), a competitive but nonprofit insurance system and price fixing in the medical industry. One of the greatest savings created by this increased regulation is, counter-intuitively, less bureaucracy: with no combat between insurers and insured, and with no fear on the part of doctors and hospitals that they won't be paid, these systems have dramatically lower administrative costs than in America.
 Nothing is perfect, of course. We see German doctors taking to the streets in mass protests over the low payments they receive. We learn that the Japanese and Taiwanese systems are running at a deficit, which will mean either higher fees or higher taxes. But even if those Asian countries were to make up their deficits immediately, they would still be spending only half as much of their gross domestic product on health care as the United States -- and, by all accounts, providing far more to their people than the ''safety nets'' that our presidential candidates propose as solutions to the American crisis. 
 One area ''Sick Around the World'' doesn't explore is the one that probably makes many Americans -- those well above the poverty line, anyway -- most nervous about the idea of medical regulation: the availability of the kind of heroic, expensive care we expect when our hearts fail, or cancer strikes. That kind of care is the subject of ''The Truth About Cancer,'' another PBS health special, on Wednesday night. 
 In this program the television producer Linda Garmon documents the battles of her husband and several other Boston-area patients against different forms of lethal cancer -- mesothelioma, pancreatic cancer, adult leukemia -- in a film that is alternately scattered and emotionally wrenching. It's really about Ms. Garmon's own process of discovering what's important, for the patient and the family, after a diagnosis of cancer, and that it's not always one more round of chemo or the latest experimental drug.
 FRONTLINE
 Sick Around the World
 On most PBS stations on Tuesday night; check local listings. 
 Jon Palfreman, director and producer; written by Mr. Palfreman and T. R. Reid; Produced by Frontline and Palfreman Film Group; WGBH Boston, series producer; David Fanning, series executive producer; correspondent, Mr. Reid. 
 THE TRUTH ABOUT CANCER
 On most PBS stations on Wednesday night; check local listings. 
 Linda Garmon, producer, writer and director; produced by Carousel Films LLC; production for WGBH Boston; Laurie Donnelly, executive producer for WGBH Boston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (66%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); INFANT MORTALITY (51%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN HEALTH & LIFE INSURANCE CO (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (91%); ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

TITLE: Sick Around the World (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



385 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2396 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
Foreign
 HAMPERED BY VIOLENCE,
 Shoemakers Survive in Iraq
 Since the invasion of Iraq, little attention has been paid to the plight of the entrepreneurs, manufacturers and private businessmen who saw their customers frightened into hiding by the violence. Some shoemakers in Baghdad have seen their businesses endure, despite the security risks and the deluge of cheap imports from China and Syria. But they're not doing as well as they were before the war, and many still have invoices for customers who are missing or dead. ''Now I just want to know the smell of a $100 bill,'' said one factory owner. PAGE A6
 TWO JOURNALISTS WIN FREEDOM
 The American military said Bilal Hussein, an Iraqi photographer for The Associated Press who had been held by American military officials on suspicions that he was helping insurgents, would be released by an Iraqi judicial panel. Richard Butler, a British photographer working for CBS who was kidnapped two months ago, was freed when Iraqi soldiers raided a house in Basra and found him bound with a bag tied over his head. ''Iraqi Army good?'' an official asked a smiling Mr. Butler. ''Iraqi Army brilliant,'' he responded. PAGE A10 
 ZIMBABWE'S OPPOSITION LOSES CASE
 Zimbabwe's opposition party, Movement for Democratic Change, lost its case before the nation's High Court, in which it demanded the immediate release of results of the nation's presidential election. Independent election observers believe the incumbent president, Robert Mugabe, lost the vote by a large margin. The opposition party asked citizens to protest what it said was Mr. Mugabe's illegal hold on power by staying home from work on Thursday. Page A7 
 BEIJING PLANS TO CLEAR THE AIR
 Chinese government officials said they would shut down construction projects in Beijing in order to clear the air in the polluted city before this summer's Olympic Games. A detailed plan released by the government says it will slow down steel production, shut down quarries and close gas stations that do not meet environmental standards. If the air isn't clean enough on the eve of the Games, the government said it would take ''stringent steps'' to make it so. ''We will do everything possible to honor the promise,'' an official said at a news conference. ''Just tell everybody they don't have to worry.'' Page A8
 RAINS FUEL VIRUS OUTBREAK IN BRAZIL
 An outbreak of the dengue fever virus in Brazil's Rio State has claimed the lives at least 80 people. Health officials in the country say the crisis shows no signs of slowing, and the virus's spread has been hastened by heavy rainfall that has created a fertile breeding ground for the mosquitoes that carry the virus. The government has been slow to respond, because officials could not decide whether the mosquito was a city, state or federal issue. PAGE A6
 NATIONAL
 A FLOOD OF APPEALS AND SCRUTINY FOR FIRMS
 The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit is struggling with the output of prolific immigration lawyers whose hastily written and factually unreliable briefs require that they be disciplined. But the lawyers are symptoms of a systemic problem rather than its cause: People seeking asylum are almost by definition poor, but they are not entitled to lawyers provided by the government. Sidebar, Adam Liptak. PAGE A12 
 DETROIT CITY COUNCIL SNUBS MAYOR
 The standoff between Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick, who refuses to resign as he battles charges of perjury and obstruction of justice, and the City Council, which wants him to leave, grows more bitter by the day. Most recently, Council members refused to let Mr. Kilpatrick deliver his annual budget presentation after he had ridiculed them for holding hearings to investigate his conduct. PAGE A15 
 FINANCING THE PAPAL VISIT
 From printing tickets for the papal Masses to organizing street closures, a hefty bill looms for the hosts of Pope Benedict XVI's visit to the United States. The Archdiocese of Washington, which established a foundation to finance the pope's three days in the capital, says it will cost the city at least $3 million. The archdiocese in New York, which plans to appeal to wealthier donors, has not ventured an estimate. PAGE A20 
 MCCAIN CRITICIZES OBAMA REMARKS
 Senator John McCain threw himself into the culture war between Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton when he told a gathering of news executives that comments by Mr. Obama about working-class voters were ''elitist'' and a ''fundamental contradiction of what I believe America's all about.'' PAGE A17 
 Appeal on Prosecutorial Immunity A14 
 Case to Open Environmental Debate A14 
 Metro
 MAYORS AND WAL-MART
 Agree on Gun Sales Plan
 A group called Mayors Against Illegal Guns that was organized by Michael R. Bloomberg in 2006 said it reached an agreement with Wal-Mart to more closely track the sale of firearms. Under the agreement, Wal-Mart will videotape sales of guns and conduct criminal background checks on store employees who handle guns. The agreement also calls for recording each time the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives links a gun bought at Wal-Mart to a crime. If a customer who buys a gun linked to a crime returns to Wal-Mart to purchase another one, the store can decide whether to complete the transaction. PAGE B3
 CONSTRUCTION WORKER DIES IN FALL
 A construction worker fell to his death from the 23rd floor of an Upper East Side building when a nylon safety strap intended to secure him to the building failed, the authorities said. Contractors at the site of the 30-story tower had been cited by city inspectors for 25 code violations in the last year. PAGE B3 
 BUSINESS
 WITH HOUSING LOSSES MOUNTING,
 Banks Brace for Flood of Bad News
 Following Wachovia's decision to slash its dividend and seek about $7.5 billion in fresh financing, Wall Street is anticipating a gruesome earnings season to reveal the heavy toll of the housing and credit market crisis. ''We believe we are at the halfway point'' of the housing crisis, Wachovia's chairman and chief executive said. PAGE C1 
 PREACHING, FROM THE CONVERTED
 Robert K. Steel, the under secretary of the Treasury for domestic finance, speaks in excitable bursts about the powers that a super regulator might wield over Wall Street one day. The apparent conversion to the merits of regulation of the former Goldman Sachs vice chairman illustrates how the laissez-faire bones of the Bush administration have been rattled by the government-brokered rescue of Bear Stearns and the trauma of the credit crisis. PAGE C1 
 BRIDGING A CALIFORNIA DIVIDE
 Only 350 miles sit between Hollywood and Silicon Valley, but a vast cultural divide separates the two. (Hollywood executives tend to prefer their millions in the form of cash, not stock options, for instance.) With so much clamor to distribute short videos via the Internet, executives from the two camps are now circling each other, trying to figure how best to combine forces as their worlds inevitably collide. PAGE C1 
 THE BLUE-COLLAR BILLIONAIRE
 Steven Feinberg, the reclusive, pickup-truck-driving deal maker some people think will save Detroit, famously told his investors ''we despise all the public attention we are getting.'' And he has never granted an interview. Until now. ''I'm embarrassed by it,'' Mr. Feinberg said about the publicity his company has received. He refused to be photographed. PAGE C1 
 BLOCKBUSTER BIDS FOR CIRCUIT CITY
 A bid by Blockbuster to acquire Circuit City Stores for more than $1 billion met a befuddled reaction on Wall Street, where investors questioned a union of two troubled companies. Blockbuster is looking to expand its franchise into a one-stop shop for electronics, and Circuit City has seen itssales plummet at the hands of rivals. ''Blockbuster has enough to worry about,'' said a research analyst. ''Nobody likes this deal.'' PAGE C3 
 Obituaries
 POLLY LAUDER TUNNEY, 100
 The beautiful socialite and Carnegie heiress had a secret romance and subsequent marriage to the former heavyweight champion Gene Tunney, and was one of the most sensational love stories of the 1920s. PAGE C11
 ARTS
 INSTEAD OF A CULTURAL LEGACY,
 Sarkozy's 'Bling-Bling' Problem
 Every French president since the liberation has initiated some legacy-minded cultural program, but President Nicolas Sarkozy of France has hardly mentioned the arts. His fondness for showbiz pals and marriage to Carla Bruni are on track to leave him with a legacy decidedly less sophisticated than that of his predecessors. ''President Bling-Bling'' has become a cliche. ''Sarko l'Americain'' is another common insult. PAGE E1 
 PRODIGIOUS EFFORT TO RESTORE CHURCH
 Conservation is under way on the famous Gothic Revival windows of St. Thomas Church in Manhattan. The most expensive restoration of stained glass ever undertaken in the United States, the job will require three years and $20 million to renew the splendor of 33 windows, the largest of which will each require 4,500 worker hours. ''This isn't your everyday construction job,'' the project manager said. PAGE E1 
 JOKES MAY NOT A GREAT WORK MAKE
 If Leno and Letterman regularly scored the ratio of hits to quips archived by ''The New Century,'' Paul Rudnick's new bill of short plays about gay men and the women who love them, much of America would be hospitalized with laughter burn. But the people portrayed are cliches, Ben Brantley writes, and the question arises as to whether a fat column of great one-liners adds up to more than the sum of its jokes. PAGE E1 
 STYRON'S LIFE IN GOOD COMPANY
 Michiko Kakutani writes that the most memorable entries in William Styron's newly published collection of personal essays deal not with confessionals, but with old-fashioned reminiscing about people the author once knew. His drinking companions Truman Capote and James Baldwin, for instance. Or his friend John F. Kennedy, who on a boating jaunt in the summer of 1963 offered Mr. Styron a contraband Havana-made Partagas cigar. PAGE E1 
 Ginia Bellafante: Deion Sanders' Reality TV Show E6 
 Bernard Holland: Kathleen Battle at Carnegie Hall E1 
 Science Times
 PLAGUES OF NEW YORK
 A New-York Historical Society exhibition titled ''Plague in Gotham!'' focuses on the dreadful year of 1832, when New York City was being ravaged by an outbreak of cholera that left more than 3,500 people dead. The ensuing panic saw well-heeled New Yorkers fleeing to the safety of the countryside and exposed the city's fault lines on issues of race and class. But it also helped scientists identify the bacterium that caused the disease -- and eventually learn how to prevent it. PAGE F4
 EASING HOME WIND-POWER
 Experts say the convergence of political, technical and ecological factors has caused a surge in the use of wind turbines on residential properties, especially in the Northeast and California. ''''Back in the early days, off-grid electrical generation was pursued mostly by hippies and rednecks, usually in isolated, rural areas,'' said Joe Schwartz, editor of Home Power magazine. ''Now, it's a lot more mainstream.'' Page F3
 WHAT CONSTITUTES ACCEPTABLE RISK?
 The Large Hadron Collider is set to go online this summer, and it will smash protons together to simulate the conditions at the beginning of the universe. Some critics have said the collider could accidentally create a black hole that could engulf the earth, and while experts say that's highly unlikely, scientists are debating what constitutes an acceptable risk, and who gets to determine what meets the qualifications. PAGE F2
 DRILLING HIS WAY INTO HISTORY
 Hubert R. Herring's great-grandfather, G. V. Black, is considered by many to be the ''father of modern dentistry.'' According to Mr. Herring, his ancestor -- with his floor-length white beard and pedal-operated drill -- helped elevate dentistry into a profession in the 1800s, and helped shift the concerns of dentists from reparative care to preventive care. So now you know whom to thank. Or blame. PAGE F2
 Sports
 ONCE AT THE TOP OF THE CARD,
 A Fighter Now Sits Atop the Polls
 Vitali Klitschko , the 6-foot-7 Ph.D. and former heavyweight boxing champion, is eyeing a new title -- mayor of Kiev in Ukraine, where he is polling 15 points ahead of the closest challenger. But can a boxer run for office on an anticorruption platform? ''My biggest goal right now is to help create a modern, democratic Ukraine,'' Klitschko said. ''To me, there is no fight more important than that.'' PAGE D2
 BRINGING SCHOOLYARD TO THE GARDEN
 There wasn't a rule in the N.H.L. playbook banning players from waving their arms and sticks in the face of a goalie to block his view of the action, because there probably never had to be. But there is now, following New York Rangers left wing Sean Avery's antics against New Jersey Devil goalkeeper Martin Brodeur in a playoff game Sunday at Madison Square Garden. Commissioner Gary Bettman says the tactic will result in an unsportsmanlike conduct penalty in the future. PAGE D1
 Editorial
 WHEN DRUG COSTS SOAR
 It doesn't take a health policy expert to recognize that something has gone terribly wrong when patients have to pay thousands of dollars a month for drugs that they need to maintain their health -- and possibly save their lives. PAGE A22
 THE TROUBLE WITH SALMON
 The federal government was right to shut down commercial salmon fishing in the Northwest. It is the only hope for salmon recovery. Now, Congress needs to expose the destructive and politically driven policies that helped create this crisis. PAGE A22
 HOW NOT TO DEVELOP NEW JERSEY
 A New Jersey housing task force, loaded with builders and their supporters, has released recommendations that would roll back environmental protections and lead to even greater traffic congestion. It is time to go back to the drawing board. PAGE A22
 Op-Ed
 DAVID BROOKS
 Senator Barack Obama stuffed his speech on the economy on Monday with the textbook cliches Democratic consultants tell their candidates to use when talking about trade -- warnings about Chinese perfidy and lead paint in toys. But instead of following those cliches into the realm of economic populism, he hedged. PAGE A23 
 BOB HERBERT
 Senator Obama brought a load of trouble on himself with comments he made in San Francisco about working-class people. But let's get a little perspective. PAGE A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); ARMIES (90%); POLITICS (87%); VIRUSES (83%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); GAS STATIONS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (70%); ELECTIONS (70%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); DENGUE FEVER (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); ARMED FORCES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); ELECTION MONITORING (64%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (63%); OLYMPICS (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (62%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (60%); WEATHER (60%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) IRAQ (96%); CHINA (94%); ZIMBABWE (93%); BRAZIL (92%); SYRIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



386 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: MGM Mirage Lays Off 400 Managers

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
MGM Mirage, the largest casino operator on the Las Vegas Strip, told more than 400 middle management employees Monday they would be terminated immediately in a cost-saving move, the company said. 
 The decision will save $75 million annually and came after the company saw weakness since August at its properties, which include Bellagio, MGM Grand, Mirage and Mandalay Bay, a spokesman, Alan Feldman, said.
 The move is the largest and swiftest by a casino operator in the current economic downturn, although the use of ''extra board'' employees like dealers and busboys who take fill-in shifts as needed has been down citywide.
 Budget-tight guests have shown a tendency to spend less in all major segments of the business, Mr. Feldman said.
 ''Instead of four days, people stay for three. Instead of a five-star experience, they are going for four stars. Instead of two shows, they're going to one,'' he said. ''There certainly is the possibility that there are people who are also making a decision to gamble less.''
 The cutbacks were at the middle-level corporate and property management areas in all departments from marketing to accounting and affected employees in Michigan and Mississippi, though the bulk were in Las Vegas.
 MGM Mirage opened the joint venture MGM Grand Macau in December and is constructing another joint venture, the $8.1 billion CityCenter complex, which is set to open on the Las Vegas Strip in late 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (95%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (95%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



387 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; GLOBAL UPDATE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Heavy Stuff: Marijuana Smokers Were Poisoned With Lead in Leipzig

BYLINE: By DENISE GRADY

 BODY:
They had stomach cramps, nausea, anemia and fatigue, and some even had a telltale bluish line along their gums -- classic signs of lead poisoning. But the cases, last year in Leipzig, Germany, puzzled doctors. Lead poisoning is rare in Germany, and yet here were 29 cases in just a few months. The doctors noticed a pattern: the patients were young, from 16 to 33; they were students or unemployed; and they had body piercings and a history of smoking. 
 In a letter published Thursday in The New England Journal of Medicine, the doctors wrote, ''On questioning, all the patients eventually conceded that they were regular users of marijuana.'' 
 Three provided samples for testing. Sure enough, their marijuana was full of lead. One bag bought from a dealer even contained lead particles big enough to see, which meant the lead must have been added deliberately, rather than being absorbed into the plant from contaminated soil. 
 The core temperature of a joint can reach nearly 2,200 degrees Fahrenheit, the doctors noted -- more than hot enough to melt lead, which can be absorbed through the respiratory tract.
 The poisoning was widely reported by German newspapers and television, and an anonymous lead-screening program was set up for marijuana users. Among 145 people who showed up for testing, 95 more cases were found.
 The authorities do not know where the tainted marijuana came from or why the lead was added, but the German police suspect that it was done to make money. The samples tested contained 10 percent lead by weight, which translates into an increased profit of about $682 per pound of marijuana.
 The patients are recovering and taking medicines called chelating agents to help remove the lead from their bodies. But it could take years to clear it completely, particularly from bones. And some were quite disillusioned to learn that poison was added to what they thought was a pure, all-natural product, said their doctor, Prof. Michael Stumvoll of University Hospital in Leipzig, who commented, ''How naive!''

GRAPHIC: MAP: Small grayish metal particles identified as lead are easily distinguished from marijuana leaves in a sample obtained from a patient and magnified. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (ABOVE)
 MAP BY THE NEW YORK TIMES) Map details area of Leipzig. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANNABIS (93%); POISONINGS (92%); LEAD POISONING (92%); LEAD (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); ANEMIA (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (71%) GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



388 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1634 words

HEADLINE: Devising Survival At Factory In Iraq

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ; Karim al-Hilmi and Jalal Mohidin al-Jaff contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
Before April 2003, when the maze of crooked lanes that branch away from Rasheed Street downtown were crammed with hundreds of small leather goods factories, Hassan Attiya, now 43, designed fancy women's shoes under his signature ''Cowboy'' label. And his workers manufactured and sold them by the thousands.
 Now Mr. Attiya, humbled by security fears, the shuttering of Iraqi tanning factories that provided his raw materials and an avalanche of cheap imports from China and Syria since the invasion, hangs on in a crumbling former dentist's office with a handful of workers.
 If all that were not crushing enough, as widespread violence generated by fighting in the south last month forced Mr. Attiya to close his factory, policemen in Baghdad stopped a car carrying goods he had ordered from Syria. The policemen said they were looking for weaponry, but when the search was over a package containing good-quality faux diamonds for his shoes had vanished. It was worth $1,200, perhaps a quarter of Mr. Attiya's working capital. 
 ''Wallahi,'' Mr. Attiya said in an Arabic expression of woe. ''The business is not as it used to be. It is like the survival of the fittest.''
 Still, as grim as Mr. Attiya's fate has been, there is also a gleam of light to be found in his Darwinian metaphor: surrounded this month in his reopened factory by piles of mauve, green, silver, white, gold and black leather shoes with flamboyant curves, in-your-face spike heels and whimsical trimmings, he has somehow survived as a private businessman.
 And in the shoe business, at least, Mr. Attiya is not alone, surprisingly, after all the devastation and upheaval in Iraq since 2003, although he says that he has received no help whatever from his seemingly oblivious government or from the Americans.
 In the five years since the invasion, a great deal of concern and financial support has been showered on the approximately half-million workers who were idled when American occupation authorities shut down Iraq's enormous Soviet-style factories, called state-owned enterprises.
 Much less attention has been given to the far larger number of private businessmen, manufacturers and entrepreneurs whose livelihoods were ruined when the invasion turned society and commerce upside-down.
 The disastrous looting that drove some of that collapse makes reliable records hard to find, but a comparison of government and trade union figures suggests that in the leather-goods business alone, from 3,000 to 4,000 private factories employed from 100,000 to 200,000 workers, although not all were full time. Those figures do not count the thick undergrowth of deliverymen, salespeople, restaurateurs and tea hawkers who were supported by that commercial activity.
 Nearly all of those leather goods factories closed in 2003, but now there are signs that some of them -- probably no more than 5 to 10 percent, but still accounting for thousands of jobs -- have adapted, sometimes in ways that would have been unthinkable just a few years ago.
 Security improvements after the American troop increase last year have helped by making customers more comfortable in some of the markets and allowing sales representatives and delivery vans to travel outside Baghdad.
 ''It was good for my business,'' said Muhamad al-Sudani, acting director and general manager at the Marakish shoe and slipper factory. But he added: ''It is not as good as it used to be before 2003. Never. I don't expect that.''
 Still, conversations with several dozen workers, managers and owners suggest that more than any other factors, persistence and good old entrepreneurial opportunism is what has allowed the local shoe business to maintain its presence.
 Majid Mishari, the owner of Marakish, said he could not open his factory's doors at all in 2003 or 2004, and when he tried starting up again for a few months in 2005, thieves or insurgents in the Anbar desert intercepted a $45,000 shipment of leather from Syria.
 But Mr. Mishari, who loves his factory's shoes so much that he is given to picking one up and tenderly kissing it, kept at it. He managed to stay open for six months in 2006. And since security began improving early in 2007, he has been open continuously.
 If Iraq were fully at peace tomorrow, though, Mr. Mishari would still literally be paying for the violence that has shaken his country for so long. He throws open cabinet after cabinet filled with stacks of what he says are unpaid invoices: many of them are for orders sent to shop owners who were killed or disappeared, or used the war as an excuse for not sending payment, he said.
 So Mr. Mishari has improvised, managing to get a rare bank loan for 100 million dinars, about $80,000, and is preparing to sell his house in the Karada neighborhood if his revenues do not allow him to make the payments.
 In the old days -- hardly a golden era, given the crippling Western economic sanctions against Iraq -- demand for his products seemed endless, and cash flowed in accordingly, Mr. Mishari said. ''Now,'' he added, ''I just want to know the smell of a $100 bill.''
 The outbreak of fresh violence last week has shelved that daydream once again. 
 Recently, Mr. Attiya was still sending the hangdog driver of the car into the Rasheed Street markets on Wednesday in hopes of buying back his faux diamonds at a discount from the thieves -- a common practice in the crime-ridden streets of Iraq, especially for items that are hard to fence.
 The diamonds are set in flashy heart and starburst patterns that do not play well with religiously motivated elements of the insurgency in Iraq. At the height of the insurgency, he said, gesturing toward his shoes, many of which would not look out of place under strobe lights at an after-hours club, ''any woman who wore these would be killed.''
 But gradually he realized that even many Iraqi women forced to wear drab hijabs wanted to wear stylish and sexy clothes underneath. Most Iraqi men did not mind it either, Mr. Attiya said.
 So, contrary to virtually all conventional understanding of society, culture, religion and commerce in present-day Iraq, his business squeaked by, though in a reduced state. From the 30 to 35 workers he said that he employed before the war, his factory has shrunk to six men laboring in the cramped dentist's office under a beige ceiling fan dating from the 1940s.
 In Western marketing parlance, Mr. Mishari and Mr. Sudani have established a niche catering to Iraqis who are willing to pay his going price of 20,000 Iraqi dinars a pair, or about $17, for something a little classier than the synthetic leather shoes from China that generally go for under $10. 
 Mr. Sudani has adapted in another way, one long familiar in the West but as novel as political ads here: he attacks those Chinese imports as the product of soulless, mechanized assembly lines. 
 ''We have lines of human beings who put their craft into this factory in order to make this product,'' Mr. Sudani said. ''The main thing for my business is that people realize my Iraqi products are good and last a long time and the others are a waste of money.''
 Since the imports started appearing after the war, Iraqi consumers have become more sophisticated about the differences in quality, said Amir Abdul Zahra, 40, a trader from Karbala who was at the Marakish factory recently to purchase inventory for his shops.
 ''After 2003, people were so attracted by the Chinese products,'' Mr. Zahra said. ''But after realizing that these products are not good quality, now they turn to the Iraqi shoes.''
 Centered off the old Rasheed Street markets in what had been one of the oldest residential sections of Baghdad before its transformation decades ago, the leather district has a long history of thriving on its own with little government interference or support, said Rahim Nehab, deputy director of the General Trade Union of Leatherworkers.
 One advantage the private firms enjoyed was much higher wages than those in state-owned factories. But in part because workers in the private factories are generally paid by the piece, their earning power has fallen. Thamir Jawad Kadham, 44, a modeler at Marakish -- who is missing his front upper row of teeth, which he says were pulled out in torture sessions during a 16-year stint as a prisoner after his capture in the Iran-Iraq war -- said that on a good day before the invasion, he could make the equivalent of $100.
 Now, monthly pay for similar work ranges from $150 to $400, which toward the upper end is still enough to modestly support a family here.
 Luay Falah, 25, a worker who lives in Shaab, a Shiite-dominated neighborhood near Sadr City, said his earnings were enough to allow him to be married in a few weeks -- as long as he and his wife lived with his parents.
 The hard realities of the shoe business have forced some former factory owners to adapt in a way that pains even themselves: turning to the import trade. One of them is Haider H. Jawad al-Madamgha, 46, who shut his factory when the cost for generator fuel became too high and who now makes regular trips to China to order the shoes that sit atop boxes behind the plate-glass windows of his Rasheed Street shop. He does not deny that many of his former colleagues regard him as something of a turncoat.
 ''That is right,'' Mr. Madamgha said of the influence of his trade. ''By importing Chinese shoes, in a way we are destroying the Iraqi industry.''
 But Mr. Madamgha noted that everyone needs shoes, and that Iraqi factories are no longer capable of keeping up with that demand, even if they all work at full capacity. And he called upon another market truism to justify his move.
 ''If I stop importing Chinese shoes, then Iraqi shoes would be $100 a pair,'' Mr. Madamgha said, before offering a visitor tea.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Several dozen workers, managers and owners said persistence and entrepreneurial opportunism have allowed the Baghdad shoe business to maintain its presence.
Workers in the private factories are generally paid by the piece, which means their earning power has fallen since the American invasion in 2003. Fighting last month prevented some deliveries of shoes from a factory in Baghdad. At stores in the capital, handmade leather shoes by Iraqis sell for about $17, while synthetic leather shoes from China generally go for under $10.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A6)
A shoe factory on Baghdad's Rasheed Street. The 2003 closing of tanneries that provided raw materials hurt the shoe industry.
 Monthly pay is from $150 to $400. The high end is enough to modestly support a family.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOAO SILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (89%); LEATHER & ALLIED PRODUCT MFG (89%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); WORKING CAPITAL (52%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); SYRIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



389 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 614 words

 BODY:
WOES FOR RETAILERS A wave of bankruptcies has hit smaller American retailers like the Sharper Image. Now it looks like the trouble is spreading to bigger national companies like Linens 'n Things. 
 U.S. FAULTED OVER FOOD PRICES Ambitious promotion of ethanol and similar biofuels by the United States is being blamed for rising food prices in the world. But there are other factors, too. [A1.] 
 AIRLINES TO MERGE Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines announce a $3.1 billion deal to merge and create the world's biggest airline -- a move that will probably lead other airlines to combine. [C1.] 
 WACHOVIA POSTS A LOSS Wachovia, the country's fourth-largest bank, posted an unexpected $393 million first-quarter loss, reduced its dividend and decided to try to raise $7 billion from investors after housing-related losses and an ill-timed acquisition. [C1.]
 FOR A SUPER REGULATOR Robert K. Steel, formerly of Goldman Sachs and now an under secretary of the Treasury, once fought heavy regulation of Wall Street. Now he sees the virtues of a super regulator. [C1.] 
 POSSIBLE PARTNERS Hollywood and Silicon Valley executives are sizing up each other once again as the video world intersects with the Internet and cellphones. [C1.]
 FEINBERG ON THE RECORD Steven Feinberg of Cerberus, the man some think could revive Detroit, sits for a rare interview. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.]
 CHRYSLER AND NISSAN VENTURE Chrysler and Nissan Motor of Japan have agreed to make vehicles for each other in a deal that could signal closer cooperation by the two companies. [C5.]
 LOW FARE ATTRACTS SCRUTINYRyanair, a European low-cost airline, has a history of using provocative marketing stunts. Now it is facing scrutiny over flights for $:10, or $20. Advertising. [C3.]
 20 YEARS FOR FUND CO-FOUNDER A federal judge has sentenced Samuel Israel III, co-founder of the Bayou Group, a defunct hedge fund, to 20 years in prison for his role in a scheme that cheated investors of more than $400 million. [C3.]
 PUZZLING OFFER Blockbuster, the movie rental company, bid more than $1 billion for Circuit City Stores, an offer that puzzled many on Wall Street. [C3.]
 TESLA SUES A DESIGNER Tesla Motors, the Silicon Valley maker of electric cars, has filed suit against Henrik Fisker, claiming the Danish car designer took proprietary information from Tesla when he started a competing company. [C5.] 
 FLY ALASKA -- AT YOUR RISK In Alaska, flying in a small plane to remote parts of the huge state can be deadly; in 2007, there were 104 aircraft accidents and 30 deaths in the state. [C7.]
 HELP FOR STRANDED FLIERS Fliers using companies like Ovation that tap travel data from companies like Flightstats.com, could help travelers avoid long delays if their flights are canceled. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C7.]
 PLEASE, SEE ME AT MY OFFICE A New York cosmetic surgeon declines to hold office hours at 30,000 feet. Frequent Flier. [C8.] 
 STOCKS CLOSE LOWER Stocks closed moderately lower as investors worried about Wachovia ahead of a week of quarterly results and economic data. [C8.]
 GENERAL RE CHIEF RESIGNS Joseph P. Brandon, the chief executive of the General Re, has resigned -- apparently at the behest of federal prosecutors and after four company executives were convicted of fraud. [C6.]
 MAKER OF HARD DRIVES SUES Seagate Technology, the maker of computer hard drives, has sued STEC Inc., a competitor, claiming patent infringement. [C3.]
 BEAR STEARNS PROFIT SINKS The Bear Stearns Companies have reported that profit dropped 79 percent in the first quarter, which ended two weeks before speculation about a liquidity crisis forced its sale to the JPMorgan Chase & Company. [C6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); FOOD PRICES (78%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); AIR FARES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); BIOFUELS (72%); ALCOHOLS (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); DELTA NORTHWEST MERGER (71%); FILM (71%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (69%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (68%); SENTENCING (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); LITIGATION (67%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (64%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (64%); JUDGES (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%); ETHANOL (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (67%); TESLA MOTORS INC (63%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); TSIC INC (58%); LINENS 'N THINGS INC (58%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); CIRCUIT CITY STORES INC (52%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (67%); TSLA (NASDAQ) (63%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (67%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (52%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



390 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: A Recluse Lifts the Veil A Little

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN. 
The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook.

 BODY:
Stephen A. Feinberg, the money man some hope will save Detroit, seemed almost apologetic. ''I don't blame anyone who doesn't know me from thinking a lot of things,'' said Mr. Feinberg, the reclusive founder of Cerberus Capital Management, the big buyout firm.
 Given that his firm owns two of the nation's most well-known companies, Chrysler and GMAC, the finance arm of General Motors, he acknowledges, ''Our approach may have been a mistake with the public.''
 Mr. Feinberg, a soft-spoken man with a mustache, was sitting in his Park Avenue office one evening recently. He seemed a bit anxious at first, and with reason: In his two decades on Wall Street he has never allowed himself to be interviewed in depth on the record, despite his enormous success. (He refused to be photographed for this column.) 
 His scorn for publicity is no secret. In February, he wrote a letter to his investors saying, ''We despise all the public attention we are getting.'' 
 That letter, which included a handful of other colorful comments that made him seem almost indifferent about the fate of the companies he owns, became fodder for the press and, in particular, a column I wrote suggesting he appeared ''cold and ruthless.''
 So it was with some surprise that a mutual friend of ours called recently to suggest that the two of us meet. ''You guys should talk and get to know each other,'' our friend said. ''Maybe you'll like him, maybe you won't. No strings attached.''
 And so on a Wednesday evening, I went to Mr. Feinberg's office, which is almost threadbare compared with most of his peers' temples of wood-paneled walls and platinum-plated bathroom fixtures. 
 The wall-to-wall carpet hasn't been updated in years. The head of a massive elk, fixed on the wall, casts a cold eye on visitors (Mr. Feinberg shot the animal on one of his regular weekend hunting trips). An American flag, folded in a crisp triangle, according to honor guard protocol, rests on a window ledge (Mr. Feinberg was in the Reserve Officers Training Corps in college). And smack in the middle of his office sits an almost-life-size model motorcycle that resembles a Harley-Davidson. (He has a real one at home.)
 Was I wrong about Mr. Feinberg? I might have been.
 He is no Gordon Gekko. He doesn't speak with an air of invincibility; he is soft-spoken and seems uncomfortable playing the role of a mogul. He looked as if he would be more comfortable in jeans and work boots than pinstripes and wingtips (he was wearing an off-the-rack blue suit). He lives in Manhattan, but says doing so is almost against his better judgment. ''I wouldn't mind living in a small town,'' he said. He drives pickup trucks (a Dodge Ram 2500 and GMC 2500).
 When you ask him about his self-described ''disdain'' for publicity, he says: ''I'm embarrassed by it. I don't think I deserve it. We have a lot to prove.'' He said he's not fearful of the press or criticism but he didn't appreciate its impact on the firm's companies.
 All this might seem like a grand show -- a bit of Wall Street performance art -- except that everyone I know who has worked with him (even his fiercest rivals) say it is not a joke. And when you meet him, when he looks you in the eye, when he talks about his brother-in-law the police officer, he is so genuine it seems like an accident he is on Wall Street. He is the first blue-collar billionaire I've ever met -- though he denies the billionaire part.
 That is not to say he is a pushover. He started his career working at Drexel Burnham Lambert and then left in the late 1980s to play in the distressed-debt market, a rough-and-tumble corner of Wall Street more suited to street fighters than the country club set. Indeed, it is against that backdrop that he says Cerberus has gotten a reputation -- one he says is undeserved -- for having sharp elbows. ''We think we're fair,'' he said, quickly adding, ''I know I'm biased.''
 Now he is plying his trade in the higher-profile private equity business, a clubby and often genteel industry. But he says the firm is doing what it has done all along: buying companies and turning them around. 
 Cerberus -- named for the mythical three-headed dog that guards the entrance to the underworld -- has spent the last 13 years building a bench of some 150 blue-chip operators, like Home Depot's former chief, Robert L. Nardelli, who it installed to run Chrysler. 
 Mr. Feinberg has assembled an advisory council of top managers, similar to the way the Carlyle Group assembled politicians in the 1990s. Cerberus helped install Michael D. Capellas, the former chief executive of Compaq, into the top spot of MCI as part of its bankruptcy reorganization.
 Within the private equity industry, Mr. Feinberg, 48, became an overnight sensation when his firm acquired both Chrysler and GMAC in under 12 months, at what seemed like the peak of the market. 
 For a brief honeymoon period, Cerberus was hailed as a possible savior of the American auto industry. But as the economy quickly soured, Wall Street became downright anxious about all that debt that was heaped upon Chrysler and GMAC to finance the deal. And in Detroit, employees have been shaken by continued announcements of layoffs; in November, Chrysler eliminated 11,000 hourly and salaried jobs in the United States and Canada on top of a plan last February to lay off 13,000. 
 Everything Mr. Feinberg said since has been scrutinized on Wall Street and in Detroit as if he were Britney Spears. Which brings us back to the letter he sent his investors. One sentence became a lightning rod. He wrote, ''We do not need to be heroes to earn a good return on the investment in Chrysler.'' 
 In retrospect, Mr. Feinberg said, ''If I knew the letter would become public, I would have explained myself a lot better.'' He said his investors knew exactly what he meant -- that the firm can be successful without having to reinvent all of Detroit -- but that outsiders might not understand. ''I get it,'' he said. ''I totally understand where you are coming from.''
 As for appearing cavalier, it wasn't intentional and is the farthest thing from the truth, he said. ''We have a national responsibility,'' he said. ''We can't let ourselves fail.'' He sounds as if he has the weight of the world on him. ''We're killing ourselves on it because of its importance.''
 Mr. Feinberg, who grew up in Spring Valley, N.Y., the son of a steel salesman, went into an unprompted patriotic speech. ''It's important for American manufacturing not to disappear,'' he said. ''It has been a dream to have the opportunity to build these American companies.''
 Still, he is nervous about the fragility of the economy and its impact on the businesses he has acquired. ''I worry about a recession, even if we do things right,'' he said. He frets that the market for packaging auto loans into securities -- a process known as securitization -- will shut down. Almost selflessly, he said he was less worried about Chrysler itself in that situation than he is about hundreds of dealerships. ''We care about them, too.''
 Two hours into our conversation, I'm still trying to square the circle of Mr. Feinberg. He is clearly, as one of his former colleagues described him, ''wicked smart.'' But he doesn't act it. So I ask him about his experience at Princeton where he played on the tennis team, hardly the pedigree of an Average Joe.
 ''I probably would have been better off going to a state school,'' he said. ''I would have been more comfortable with the people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); SPORT HUNTING (66%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (60%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (57%)

COMPANY: CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2008



391 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Pope T-Shirt, Anyone? Turning to Big Donors, and Souvenirs, for a Costly Visit

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE; Ian Urbina contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
From printing tickets for the papal Masses to organizing street closings and security, a hefty bill looms for the hosts of Pope Benedict XVI's visit to the United States.
 The Archdiocese of Washington predicts that the pope's three days in the capital, starting on Tuesday, will cost at least $3 million, but the Archdiocese of New York, where he will spend an additional three days, has not ventured an estimate. 
 Past papal visits provide some benchmarks. Pope John Paul II's trip to the East Coast in 1995 cost $1 million to $1.2 million a day, said Msgr. Robert F. Coleman, an organizer of the papal visit that year to the Archdiocese of Newark and dean of Immaculate Conception Seminary at Seton Hall University. But tightened security after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, will probably push the costs higher, he said. 
 Representatives of the Archdioceses of Washington and New York said it was unclear how much the entire papal visit would cost, or what economic and even pastoral benefits might accrue. 
 ''The Mass at Nationals Park, security, transportation of bishops and people, planning -- we don't have a playbook for this,'' said Susan Gibbs, a spokeswoman for the archdiocese in Washington, which had its last papal visit in 1979.
 The two archdioceses have taken different approaches to financing the visit. Archbishop Donald W. Wuerl of Washington decided that parish and diocesan money should not be used, Ms. Gibbs said, given the financial pressures the archdiocese faces. Instead, Archbishop Wuerl established a foundation, Christ Our Hope, which has raised more than $3 million, mostly from wealthy donors.
 Ms. Gibbs declined to identify the donors or the size of their contributions.
 Any surplus will be donated to a charity of the pope's choice, in his name, Ms. Gibbs said. But security costs may eat up much of the foundation's resources. 
 Carrie Brooks, a spokeswoman for Mayor Adrian M. Fenty of Washington, said the Secret Service was taking the lead on coordinating the pope's security in the capital. Ms. Brooks said the city's Police Department would be most involved in coordinating street closings for processions. The cost to the city to provide security, close streets and clean up after parades is expected to be about $2.2 million, she said.
 Ms. Brooks said in an e-mail message that the city had tried to get back from the federal government what it spent on such efforts, and that it had ''also reached out to the archdiocese to discuss cost-sharing.''
 A spokesman for the New York Archdiocese, Joseph Zwilling, said the archdiocese would also appeal to wealthier donors for support. He said he was not concerned about asking parishioners to contribute, despite the archdiocese's other financial needs.
 ''People in the archdiocese welcome an opportunity to help support a tremendous moment in the history of the archdiocese,'' Mr. Zwilling said.
 The New York Archdiocese is getting a break here and there: it will not have to pay for extra security provided by New York City or for the use of Yankee Stadium for a papal Mass, Mr. Zwilling said. The Washington Archdiocese will have to pay to rent Nationals Park, the new baseball stadium, though Ms. Gibbs said she did not know the amount. 
 The sale of souvenirs of the visit should generate some money but not enough to make a sizable dent in the cost of the trip, representatives of the archdioceses said. At events in the two cities and online, at popevisit2008.com, people can buy memorabilia, including framed photos of the pope, T-shirts that say ''Property of Pope Benedict XVI,'' and ''I the Pope'' bumper stickers. 
 The retail chain Build-a-Bear is offering, online and at its stores in the Washington area, a ''tiny tee'' for its bears with the visit's logo and the pope's picture. A company spokeswoman declined to say how much money had been raised by the sale of the shirts, which cost $6, but part of it will go to Christ Our Hope.
 Past papal visits have sometimes yielded a windfall for hotels and restaurants. In New York, which last had a papal visit in 1995, and Washington, officials said they could not quantify possible economic dividends from the visit. But in Washington, any income might be modest.
 ''Most of those attending the Mass are from the area,'' said Carla Barry-Austin, a spokeswoman for Washington's tourism corporation. ''Also, many people are just coming to town for the day and not checking into hotels.''
 Most archdioceses lack data on the impact of papal visits on pastoral life. But after Pope John Paul II visited Denver in 1993 for World Youth Day, attendance at Mass there rose by more than 7.5 percent, said Jeanette DeMelo, a spokeswoman for the Denver Archdiocese. The number of converts also increased substantially, Ms. DeMelo said.
 Similarly, Monsignor Coleman of the Seton Hall seminary said, ''Certainly, after the papal visit, just in my recollection, did the number of applicants to the seminary increase? Yes.'' 
 He added: ''I think there is a spiritual impact on the faithful, though it is hard to measure. The visit gives inspiration to people to embrace the faith, to return to the faith.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students with a likeness of Pope Benedict XVI at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington. The pope arrives Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (85%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CHARITIES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); POLICE FORCES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



392 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Pelosi Step Up Clash Over Trade Pact

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, intensified an increasingly personal fight over a stalled trade deal with Colombia on Monday, trading accusations over who was best protecting the interests of American workers.
 Mr. Bush, still angry about Ms. Pelosi's surprise decision to rescind a requirement that the House take up the trade deal within 60 days, called the action a snub to a strategic ally in South America. And Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. canceled a meeting with the speaker on other economic initiatives that had been scheduled for Monday.
 ''This free trade agreement is in our national interests, yet that bill is dead unless the speaker schedules a definite vote,'' the president said. ''And it's not in our country's interest that we stiff an ally like Colombia and that we don't encourage our goods and services to be sold overseas.'' 
 Ms. Pelosi fired back, hurriedly scheduling a rare Monday meeting with reporters to suggest that the president was putting his trade agenda ahead of Americans' economic troubles while pursuing stale economic policy.
 ''For seven long years, the president's failed economic plan has stiffed the American people,'' Ms. Pelosi told reporters.
 Ms. Pelosi said she was willing to bring the trade pact to the House floor for a vote ''under the proper circumstance,'' but there appeared to be little movement toward finding a resolution. 
 ''First, we need to address the worsening economy in our country,'' she said.
 Democrats see the trade deal as a potential bargaining chip with the administration in a push for more economic aid like an extension of unemployment benefits, assistance for workers displaced by trade agreements and perhaps an expansion of a children's health insurance program.
 Ms. Pelosi, who worked closely with Mr. Paulson in developing the economic stimulus legislation that led to the soon-to-be-mailed tax rebate checks, talked with the Treasury secretary at the end of a White House session last week. But the speaker's office was notified over the weekend that Mr. Paulson would not be available for the meeting on the economy scheduled for Monday.
 The strain over the trade pact bubbled to the surface last week after the president told the speaker he was submitting the agreement against her advice as well as that of Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader. Though she advised him again to hold back on the agreement, the president said he was moving ahead.
 ''The speaker and her team had been dragging their heels on scheduling a vote,'' Dana Perino, the White House spokeswoman, said Monday. ''And while the president did not want to have to send up the bill, and he did so reluctantly, it was only because if we look at the calendar and count backwards, we were running out of legislative days.''
 In response, Ms. Pelosi won party-line approval on Thursday of her request to eliminate the 60-day deadline for consideration of the pact, infuriating the White House and leaving the proposal's fate uncertain.
 Democratic strategists said they believed the White House had made a tactical error in pushing ahead with the agreement over Ms. Pelosi's objections. That left Democratic supporters of the trade deal choosing between a lame-duck president and their party leader.
 The White House on Monday pointed to lowering violence in Colombia, trying to undermine Democratic complaints that labor leaders there had been singled out for attack. Other Republicans pointed to widespread calls by newspaper editorials and the business community for approval of the agreement. Its backers say it would clearly benefit the United States because it would remove duties on American goods going to Colombia, whose products already enter the United States duty free.
 But Democrats say they will not entertain another trade pact without some movement by the administration toward more aid for American workers.
 ''We ask the president to, once again, bring his people to the table so we can move forward,'' Ms. Pelosi said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX RELIEF (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); NANCY PELOSI (91%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



393 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: America in Iraq: Setting Limits

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 The headline on your April 13 editorial ''All The Time He Needs'' goes to the Bush administration's essential error regarding American policy in Iraq: the failure to impose any timeframe or any consequences for Iraqi nonperformance or underperformance. 
 Anyone who has ever haggled in a bazaar in that region knows that the only way to get a decent deal is to show that you're willing to walk away. By indicating that America is willing to stay indefinitely, the administration is giving Iraqis the option of putting as much responsibility on American troops and resources as possible and indefinitely delaying their own commitments. That's not a good deal in the long run, for us or for them. 
 We will never know how much time Iraqis need until we try setting some limits on our own mission. Otherwise, I fear ''all the time they need'' will turn into a very long time indeed.
 Daniel A. Simon New York, April 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In your criticism of the White House for not offering an immediate plan for further troop withdrawals from Iraq, you state that you ''believe that the fight against Al Qaeda is the central battle for this generation, but Mr. Bush's claim that Iraq is the main front is wrong.'' 
 Your assessment is lost on Osama bin Laden, who has called Iraq the ''central battle in a Third World War,'' with Baghdad ''the capital of the Caliphate.'' Mr. bin Laden says ''the whole world is watching'' the war in Iraq, and the stakes are ''either victory and glory or misery and humiliation.'' 
 Afghanistan, of course, remains a central front. But so does Iraq.
 Stuart Gottlieb New Haven, April 13, 2008
 The writer is director of policy studies at the MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies at Yale University.
 To the Editor:
 There is one glaring omission from the list of things that President Bush could do ''to give his successor a better shot at containing the chaos'' in Iraq. He could apologize for deceiving the American people into supporting a completely unnecessary war. 
 Through these five years of senseless loss, I have yearned for a thorough analysis and recounting of the deceit and manipulation that brought us here. A complete reckoning by Congress might force us all, even President Bush, to accept responsibility. 
 In 2003, a deceitful administration with its own unspoken agenda manipulated a nation still shaken by the attacks of 9/11. When we finally understand how this happened, an exit strategy may also become clear.
 Ken Swensen Pound Ridge, N.Y., April 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In ''The Petraeus-Crocker Show Gets the Hook'' (column, April 13), Frank Rich expresses exasperation with the American public's lack of concern with the war. I share his exasperation, but like most Americans, I am also exasperated with the lack of any clear direction in Iraq.
 To those of us who spoke out against the war and have marched, protested and voted to end this disaster, last week's hearings were frustrating and depressing. We now see that the Band-Aid approach of the surge is no longer effective as the violence flares and the number of young Americans killed increases once again. 
 Yet President Bush continues to insist that we will succeed and that victory (whatever that means) will be ours. 
 Our voices have been ignored, and the war appears to be endless. Most of the citizenry, concerned with escalating food and gas prices and an economy in a tailspin, is too worn out and worn down to care. We have no energy left to challenge the lies that this administration continues to spin and can only wait for the end of this disastrous presidency. 
 Cindy L. Harden Brooklyn, April 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 It was, perhaps, understandable in the aftermath of 9/11 that Americans (I was one of them) put their faith in a president who called us to arms in Iraq. Whether to preclude Iraq from being the nuclear arms dealers to our enemies or to inject our army into an area where the winds signaled great danger, the call to war did not seem beyond reason. Of course, what has followed has been awful. 
 We may never know exactly why we went to war in Iraq; however, when we had a second chance to vote and left President Bush in office, we went beyond a misguided faith into a fog, and many thousands since have paid a terrible price, as have we all. 
 To say that those of us who have not directly lost one to the war do not share the pain overstates the case. The daily discourse that I hear suggests otherwise. In that respect, the popularity of Senator Barack Obama may be a direct result of that pain. The election will begin the final chapters of this tragic story. I, for one, cannot wait to vote.
 Bruce Neuman Sag Harbor N.Y., April 13, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOEL CASTILLO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); WRITERS (73%); AL-QAEDA (70%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); FRANK RICH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (75%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



394 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Housing Plan, With U.S. Aid, May Aid Abbas in West Bank

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

DATELINE: RAMALLAH, West Bank 

 BODY:
The Palestinian West Bank, besieged by Israeli occupation, political division and weak leadership, got a boost on Monday: the announcement of a plan, led by the American government, to help tens of thousands of people buy homes.
 The plan, which establishes a $500 million mortgage company, aims to build 10 new neighborhoods over the next five years and, in the process, create thousands of jobs in construction and real estate. In doing so, it could improve the depressed local economy and the political prospects of the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, of the relatively pro-West Fatah party.
 Mr. Abbas, who has been engaged in peace talks with Israel's prime minister, Ehud Olmert, will be in Washington next week to see President Bush, who hopes to have a Palestinian-Israeli peace outline before his term ends. 
 A secondary aim of the housing program is to send a message to the Gaza Strip, run by the Islamist party Hamas, that its citizens, too, could benefit from international generosity and economic progress if they restore Fatah's authority, overturned by Hamas forces in a battle last June. 
 The new company's name, Affordable Mortgage and Loan Company, yields the acronym AMAL, an Arabic word meaning hope.
 ''We believe this gives the Palestinians of Gaza a reason to try to change the status quo,'' said Mohammad A. Mustafa, chief executive of the Palestine Investment Fund, which runs the new program. ''Something good could be in store for them besides their ongoing nightmare.''
 Palestinian officials say that in the next decade, 470,000 new homes will be needed in the West Bank and Gaza, and that 75 percent of the population is without affordable housing. The new plan will make mortgages available for about 30,000 apartments. 
 Some 2.5 million Palestinians live in the West Bank, along with about 250,000 Israeli settlers. Israel also holds large parts of the area for security. An additional 1.5 million Palestinians live in the Gaza Strip, which Israel evacuated in the summer of 2005. 
 Half of the money for the new mortgage company, $250 million, will come from the United States through the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. The rest will be from the Palestine Investment Fund, the International Finance Corporation of the World Bank and the Bank of Palestine, with a smaller contribution from the British government. 
 At a ceremony in Ramallah, Tony Blair, the former British prime minister who is representing the international community in helping the Palestinian Authority build institutions, called the plan ''a major step forward for ordinary Palestinians.''
 This is the second major international initiative of its kind in the West Bank. Last summer, $230 million was pledged for a similar program for small- and medium-size businesses in the area.
 Robert Mosbacher Jr., the president of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, which was also involved in that endeavor, said about half a dozen loans had been made so far in that program. He said he hoped that the first construction in the housing plan would start this year. 
 ''Our role is to deploy private capital as a soft power tool,'' Mr. Mosbacher, a businessman from Texas, said after the ceremony held to announce the program.
 Mr. Abbas, the Palestinian president, said in his speech at the ceremony that he wished the new projects could apply to the Gaza Strip but that what he called the coup d'etat carried out there made it impossible. He condemned the shooting of rockets at southern Israeli communities from Gaza.
 Also on Monday, former President Jimmy Carter, who is on a Middle East tour, visited two of those communities, Sderot and Ashkelon. Although Mr. Carter brokered the first Israeli-Arab peace treaty, with Egypt, when he was president, many Israelis view him as hostile. Most of Israel's leadership, including Mr. Olmert, Defense Minister Ehud Barak and Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, declined to meet with him. 
 Mr. Carter did see President Shimon Peres, who nonetheless criticized him for his plan to meet with the exiled political leader of Hamas, Khaled Meshal, in Damascus, Syria. Israel and the United States are trying to isolate Hamas because of its terrorist activities and its refusal to accept Israel. But Mr. Carter has argued that without Hamas's involvement, there cannot be peace with Israel. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tony Blair, left, with the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, on Monday at the announcement of a home loan plan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUHAMMED MUHEISEN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AL FATAH (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PEACE PROCESS (56%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (56%)

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (64%); BANK OF PALESTINE LTD (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (90%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); TONY BLAIR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



395 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SIDEBAR; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: The Verge Of Expulsion, The Fringe Of Justice

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK. 
Online: Documents and an archive of Adam Liptak's articles: nytimes.com/adamliptak.

 BODY:
Federal appeals are not usually a volume business. Even fancy Manhattan firms with hundreds of lawyers seldom have more than a handful of cases pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, which is known for its august history, superior judicial craftsmanship and special expertise in commercial and securities case.
 These days, though, the Second Circuit is struggling with the output of prolific immigration lawyers like Frank R. Liu. In the last three years, Mr. Liu has filed more than 50 appeals in federal courts, most of them to the Second Circuit, in New York. 
 In April 2006, a three-judge panel of the court warned Mr. Liu that his carelessly written and factually unreliable appellate brief, apparently copied in large part from earlier ones, could subject him to discipline. 
 You might think that would have gotten Mr. Liu's attention. But he was chastised five more times in 2007, by panels including eight more judges. In May and again in September, Mr. Liu was referred to the court's disciplinary committee for his ''seriously deficient'' work.
 There is, Judge Robert A. Katzmann wrote for a panel of Second Circuit judges in February, a ''disturbing pattern of ineffectiveness'' at the lower levels of the immigration bar, one that rears its head in the appeals courts with ''alarming frequency.''
 Mr. Liu, a disarmingly candid man, was quick to agree.
 ''I think the judge has a point, actually,'' he said. ''Some attorneys, including myself, do not spend enough time. We're not trained properly in terms of federal appeals. I ventured into an area I found later was very demanding. I was probably not qualified to do the job.''
 Two briefs Mr. Liu submitted to the Second Circuit in October 2006 support his self-assessment. They included, for starters, 27 paragraphs that were essentially the same in each brief. Mr. Liu did add a half-dozen paragraphs to each brief to take account of the distinct facts in the two cases, but he made no effort to explain where the lower court judges had gone astray in ruling against his clients.
 Other immigration lawyers handle even more preposterous caseloads than Mr. Liu. Seven small immigration firms each had more than 100 appeals pending in the Second Circuit in the spring of 2005, according to a study published in The New York Law School Law Review. One of them had more than 300. These appeals are part of a yet larger phenomenon. In recent years, the number of immigration appeals has more than quintupled, a consequence of revisions to the way immigration cases are handled. 
 The Second Circuit disciplinary committee has not made a decision in Mr. Liu's case, and Mr. Liu said he was worried about his livelihood and reputation. He has, he said, for the most part stopped handling federal appeals.
 ''Personally, I feel very ashamed, of course, in being mentioned,'' he said.
 It is easy to feel superior to lawyers like Mr. Liu and his colleagues, but they are symptoms of a systemic problem rather than its cause.
 People involved in immigration appeals, many of whom are seeking asylum, are often poor. But they are not entitled to lawyers provided by the government.
 ''A person accused of shoplifting gets an appointed attorney,'' said Stephen W. Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at Cornell. ''Someone who is fleeing persecution and may be tortured or killed if forced to go back to their home country does not.''
 That means asylum applicants may get only the justice they can afford.
 Judge Richard C. Wesley of the Second Circuit said the combination of three factors made the lot of the asylum applicant ''a witch's brew that creates the opportunity for mistakes.''
 ''A large number of these litigants are poor,'' he said. ''For many, English is a second language if it is a language. The law is intricate and not easily understood.''
 That said, he added, ''there are people who labor in these vineyards with great distinction.'' But many do not, in part because they cannot make a living doing legal work of acceptable quality.
 Mr. Liu said he typically charged a flat fee of about $2,500 for an appeal, a fortune to clients and a pittance by the standards of large firms, which routinely charge $100,000 and more for an appeal.
 ''A new immigrant makes like $10 or $8 or $7 an hour, and big firms charge like $250 an hour,'' Mr. Liu said, underestimating what big-firm partners charge by a factor of three if not four.
 But Mr. Liu said he was not hiding behind the economics of his practice. ''There is simply no excuse,'' he said. ''Even if you don't charge a lot of money, you have to do your job.''
 Notwithstanding the shortcomings of parts of the immigration bar, there is no question that, on average, having a lawyer makes a difference. A study published last year in The Stanford Law Review found that 46 percent of people who appeared with lawyers or other representatives were granted asylum. People without lawyers won 16 percent of the time. 
 Good lawyers do even better. Georgetown University's legal clinic wins 89 percent of the time. Human Rights First, which refers cases to big law firms in New York and Washington willing to handle them without charge, wins 96 percent of the time.
 All of this points to a disquieting phenomenon. There is a legitimate debate about how liberal the nation's asylum policies should be. But nobody should be happy to hear that whether people who claim to be fleeing persecution are deported or not turns on how good a lawyer they have -- or whether they can afford one at all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%)

PERSON: ROBERT A KATZMANN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



396 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ABROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: A Lowbrow In High Office Ruffles France

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Nearly a year into his term President Nicolas Sarkozy of France has hardly mentioned the arts or culture. In late February he said that French cuisine should be added to the Unesco World Heritage list. 
 De Gaulle had Andre Malraux at his elbow. Francois Mitterrand renovated the Louvre. Just before he left office, Jacques Chirac opened an immense museum for non-Western cultures, designed by Jean Nouvel, which in its confusing, heart-of-darkness, overwrought layout epitomizes a certain kind of French arrogance and architectural megalomania. Naturally, millions of tourists now flock to it. 
 Every French president since the liberation has cooked up some such pharaonic new museum or opera house or library or initiated some legacy-minded cultural program, until now. Mr. Sarkozy's taste is said to be for Lionel Ritchie and Celine Dion. (Mitterrand mulled over Dostoyevsky; de Gaulle consumed Chateaubriand.) The current president's fondness for showbiz pals, his marriage to the Italian model-turned-singer Carla Bruni and the appointment of a culture minister, Christine Albanel, who is intelligent but widely regarded as weak among Mr. Sarkozy's ministers, have combined to produce something of a culture shock.
 ''A rupture,'' is what the political scientist Pascal Perrineau calls it. 
 ''An incredible change,'' said Jean Lacouture, de Gaulle's biographer. One recent afternoon he sat in his study overlooking the Seine, meditating on this turn of events. ''When de Gaulle returned to a liberated France in 1944,'' he recalled, ''he made a show of visiting famous writers like Paul Valery and Francois Mauriac. It was his way of declaring a renewed sense of French glory.'' 
 These days Paris kiosks advertise copies of a special issue of Le Canard Enchaine, the satirical newspaper, with yet another photograph of Mr. Sarkozy in his familiar aviator Ray-Bans, a yacht and a private jet superimposed onto his two mirrored lenses. ''President Bling-Bling'' has already become a cliche. 
 ''Sarko l'Americain'' is another common insult. The French, though, may soon have to think up a fresh one if (and you can almost hear Mitterrand starting to turn in his grave) the United States elects a president who delivers speeches like the one Senator Barack Obama gave on race while this country has its first modern leader not to have graduated from the country's upper-crust schools, a head of state who on a recent visit to the Vatican arrived late, with an exceptionally crude French stand-up comic named Jean-Marie Bigard in tow. The coup de grace: the hyperactive Mr. Sarkozy reportedly text-messaged somebody or other while with the pope. 
 That incident infuriated some French Roman Catholics along with many stodgy Gaullists and other traditional French conservatives who, though they helped elect him, now find Mr. Sarkozy, to put it bluntly, vulgar. 
 ''His acquaintance with television and media people, with stars, the way he behaves, all this is an annoyance for the right,'' Herve Mariton acknowledged. He is a young, worldly, neo-Gaullist member of Mr. Sarkozy's ruling center-right Union for a Popular Movement in Parliament. He stopped briefly to talk at a busy cafe across from the National Assembly and admitted that he had not been the president's most ardent admirer.
 ''Our president may not be exceptionally cultivated, but he's also not a stupid man,'' Mr. Mariton offered. ''He wants to prove to a part of the elite that things have changed. Like other aspects of government, our cultural policy had become incestuous. So for the president to create a certain distance from it can be good.''
 ''Ignorance is not,'' he added before saying that he had to dash back to the Parliament.
 Patrick Rambaud is not so diplomatic. His satiric novel ''The Chronicle of the Reign of Nicolas the First'' has become a best seller here. An old-style French leftist rooted in the ethos of 1968, he was visiting his Left Bank publisher's office the other morning. The making-fun-of-Sarkozy business has brought him a surprising windfall.
 ''We are all ashamed,'' he said, about the president's lack of interest in culture and his general bucks-and-babes style. ''I mean, taking Bigard to the pope. Even as a writer I couldn't have invented that.'' (Truth be told, he sounded more grateful than angry.) Mr. Rambaud recalled the sophistication of earlier presidents. Mr. Sarkozy has almost inspired in him a nostalgia for de Gaulle. 
 ''Look, we need a president who is cultivated,'' he said, as if for a Frenchman this were as indisputable as the superiority of Petrus. ''It goes back to the days of the kings.'' 
 Georges Pompidou published an anthology of French poetry and conceived the national center for modern art named after him. Valery Giscard d'Estaing left behind the Orsay museum. Mr. Chirac, to enhance his aura (in the United States this would be political suicide of course), spread word while president that he had translated Pushkin as a teenager. And aside from the Louvre, Mitterrand's grands travaux included the new Bastille Opera and the new National Library. They may be calamitous, much-loathed buildings (''the answer to a question no one asked,'' Hugues Gall, the former director of the Bastille, often joked about his opera house). But under Mr. Mitterrand and his powerful culture minister, Jack Lang, culture rose to something like a state religion in France.
 Now, the endless flow (much of which he himself eagerly sought) of paparazzi photographs, Internet chatter and ''news'' about Mr. Sarkozy and Ms. Bruni -- she, dressed like Jacqueline Kennedy in a pillbox hat while visiting Britain, or not dressed at all; they on a date at Euro Disney or vacationing in Luxor, Egypt, while the French economy swooned -- has kept the president's approval numbers low. And lately it has led his increasingly panicked advisers to try to retool him as a tad more circumspect. 
 The day he said French food should be protected by Unesco, he raised eyebrows by rudely insulting a Frenchman who declined to shake his hand. Now he gravely attends military funerals and christens nuclear submarines.
 Not that French people are buying it. The latest poll, in L'Express, the French newsmagazine, has 45 percent saying his style hasn't changed at all; 22 percent, that it's worse. The issue is clearly cultural. His prime minister, who carries out the president's economic plans, is very popular. 
 ''I'm banking on Carla,'' Mr. Lacouture, the de Gaulle biographer, said. ''France has had many brilliant queens, you know.'' 
 It turns out, this is what many French people have begun to tell themselves. Olivier Py, the director of the Odeon-Theatre de l'Europe in Paris, one of France's five national theaters, also speculated the other morning that Ms. Bruni and her sister, a filmmaker and actress, might make a kind of project of the president, culturally speaking: Pygmalions to his Galatea. 
 Even if not, Mr. Py said: ''Sarkozy's personal idea of culture doesn't really matter. The point is, he needs to take up the idea that French culture matters. Nobody is doing that any longer on the left or right. It's shocking. In France this is the role of the president. He can't continue to be silent.''
 Small cuts to the national theater's state budget (about 5 percent, Mr. Py estimated), while understandable in a shrinking economy, have nonetheless hurt, he said. ''This is a country that knows it can't afford to go on as things are, but we enjoy a good life here.'' Mr. Py shrugged. ''Nobody wants to give that up.'' 
 Unlike some artists Mr. Py is not so worried that the president will make far more devastating cuts to culture. (''We won't let him,'' he simply said.) But he does fret that, absent Mr. Sarkozy's greater commitment, the country may lose its grip on the notion of the arts as a national duty, not just a luxury. 
 Didier Bezace agrees. An actor, since 1997 he has directed the Theatre de la Commune in Aubervilliers, producing plays in one of Paris's poor immigrant suburbs. ''In these difficult places especially we need cultural institutions to show that we won't give up,'' he said. ''Sarkozy has been the greatest enemy to the suburbs not because he said the people there were 'scum' '' -- he said that during the rioting that broke out before he became president -- ''but because everything about him reinforces the idea among the French urban poor that the goal is a fat wallet, brand-name clothes, big hotels and cars.'' 
 Mr. Perrineau, the political scientist, put it differently: ''With his jeans, his rudeness, his crude language, no tie, he establishes a new iconography for France. Casualness translates into a more secular sort of leadership, which is why people who don't like him here talk about the Americanization of France. For both the left and right this means anti-intellectual.'' 
 Campaigning for culture might help remedy that. As Chateaubriand put it, ''Taste is the good sense of genius.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nicolas Sarkozy has drawn criticism for his cultural tastes since he became president of France.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHE ENA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. E1)
Above, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Carla Bruni in Luxor, Egypt, in December
 right, Charles de Gaulle and Andre Malraux, his culture minister, in 1959.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)(pg. E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); WRITERS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%); RELIGION (62%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (91%); CARLA BRUNI (73%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CELINE DION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%) FRANCE (96%); HOLY SEE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2008



397 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Europe Steps Around Tibet as Trade Issue

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

 BODY:
The European Commission said Tuesday that legitimate European worries about human rights and Tibet should not be ''walled off'' from the Continent's trade relationship with China but that it did not support the idea of boycotts. 
 The remarks came a few days before Europe sends its largest-ever high-level delegation to China in an effort to establish a body to oversee trading relations.
 The European Union's trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, said the success of the new body depended on Beijing addressing worries about Chinese trade barriers, currency levels, protection of intellectual property rights and climate change policies.
 ''Our concerns, our protest must go hand in hand with a strategy for ensuring that China continues to look outward, to pursue internationalism,'' he said.
 Next week, the European Commission president, Jose Manuel Barroso, will lead a delegation of at least seven European commissioners. The new trade-relations body, the E.U.-China High Level Mechanism, seeks to rival the Strategic Economic Dialogue, which was established in September 2006 between China and the United States.
 ''For the mechanism to work, China will have to seriously engage,'' Mr. Mandelson told a conference of the China-Britain Business Council in London. ''If they do not, they risk a lot more exhausted patience in Europe. And that patience, in some political markets, is already pretty thin.''
 With a vigorous debate over Tibet and China's staging of the Olympic games, the visit next week to Beijing will take place at a sensitive moment.
 The size of the delegation illustrates the breadth of the relationship between China and the European Union. Mr. Mandelson's remarks Tuesday concentrated both on the growing economic interdependence of China and Europe and on the long-running tensions between the two trading blocs.
 Climate change would be central to Mr. Barroso's mission, Mr. Mandelson said, adding that China ''needs to be a constructive part of a global strategy because it is becoming the largest emitter of greenhouse gasses.''
 But Mr. Mandelson also expressed frustration at Beijing's failure to dismantle trade barriers, which he said cost European businesses more than 20 billion euros, or $31.5 billion a year.
 European services companies complain regularly about the difficulty of gaining access to the Chinese market.
 ''In Europe, we face booming imports and constrained export growth,'' Mr. Mandelson said. ''That spells growing anxiety, and frustration,'' he said. ''The wave of Chinese investment on the horizon risks deepening those anxieties. Europeans will only accept an open trading and investment relationship with China -- which we should welcome -- if they feel that this relationship is a two-way street. We expect China to match our openness with openness of its own.''
 Though China seeks technology transfer, it cannot provide the legal protection, under intellectual property rights, to make this a viable proposition for foreign countries, he added.
 Because of the weakening of the dollar, Europe is absorbing more imports from China and wants to see a ''gradual appreciation'' of the Chinese currency, he added.
 But Mr. Mandelson also emphasized that it would be ''catastrophic'' if China turned its back on the international system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); BOYCOTTS (77%); EURO (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); OLYMPICS (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); EMISSIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); CHINA-BRITAIN BUSINESS COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (79%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); TIBET (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2008



398 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: A Speech About Nothing

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
We're in the middle of a series of historic economic transformations. 
 A string of technological revolutions have made American workers much more productive. Over the past 30 years, steel producers have reduced the number of hours it takes to produce a ton of steel by up to 90 percent.
 A social revolution has radically increased the number of women in the work force and pushed down the wages of men. 
 A medical revolution has led to enhanced diagnosis and treatment but also rapid health care inflation that burdens American employers and eats into workers' weekly paychecks. 
 An information revolution has increased the economic rewards of education and punished those who lack it.
 A pedagogical revolution has led to ferocious competition to get into the top universities but a decline in quality at the primary and secondary levels. For the first time in the nation's history, workers retiring from the labor force are better educated than the ones coming in. 
 All of these huge social forces have had profound effects on how Americans work and live. All of them have combined to create a mass upper class, but also a struggling working class. They have all contributed to rising living standards -- and also to the feelings of anxiety that show up in poll after poll.
 You would think that if you were a thoughtful presidential candidate, addressing voters in an economically complicated state like Pennsylvania, you would want to describe how these pervasive forces are shaping the lives of voters and how government should respond. But, then again, you are not trapped in a campaign bubble. You have not outsourced your brain to political tacticians.
 Barack Obama delivered a speech in Pittsburgh on Monday on the economic stresses facing American workers. In the speech, he devoted one clause in one sentence to the single biggest factor affecting the workplace: technological change. He then devoted 45 sentences to one of the least important: trade deals. 
 Economists differ over how much outsourcing will change the American job market in the future, but there is little evidence that trade has been a major cause of job loss or even wage stagnation so far. As Robert Z. Lawrence of the Peterson Institute for International Economics wrote in a recent study: ''The recent increase in U.S. inequality ... has little to do with global forces that might especially affect unskilled workers -- namely, immigration and expanded trade with developing countries.''
 And yet all Democratic domestic policy discussions have to start with trade and, in 99.9 percent of the cases, end with trade. 
 And we have not even begun to plumb the insignificance of Obama's emphasis on Monday. He wasn't even talking about trade in general. He was talking about the Nafta- and Cafta-style trade agreements whose negative effects on the American economy are barely measurable. And, to make matters even more inconsequential, he wasn't even taking a clear stand on such deals themselves.
 Obama stuffed his speech with the textbook cliches that Democratic consultants tell their candidates to use when talking about trade -- warnings about Chinese perfidy and lead paint in toys. But instead of following those cliches into the realm of economic populism, he hedged.
 He wound up in the no-man's land between Lou Dobbs-style populism and Bill Clinton-style free trade. He made a series of on-the-one-hand/on-the-other-hand distinctions about which sort of trade deals he'd support and which he wouldn't. It added up to a vague, watered-down version of economic light beer. In the end, he suggested a few minor tweaks in the U.S. tax code that would have a microscopic effect on outsourcing, and a few health and safety provisions which might have teenie-weenie effects on investment decisions. The ideas he sketched out in the speech aren't dangerous. They're just trivial. 
 We all know why Obama spoke the way he did on Monday. The forces transforming the American economy are big and hard to control. If you think your listeners aren't sophisticated enough to grasp them, it's much easier to blame those perfidious foreigners for all economic woes. It's much more heroic to pretend that, by opposing Nafta, you can improve the lives of middle-class voters. Furthermore, these trade deals have become symbolic bogies for union activists. Instead of concerning themselves with the tidal waves washing overhead, they've decided to insist on bended-knee submission in the holy war against Colombia.
 What I don't understand is why the political consultants prefer this kind of rhetoric. Aren't there windows in the vans they use to drive around the state? Don't they see that most middle-class voters are service workers in suburban office parks, not 1930s-style proletarians in the steel mills? 
 American voters aren't so stupid as to think their problems are caused by foreigners and malevolent lobbyists. When Obama speaks down to his audiences, it makes me so bitter I want to cling to my laptop and my college degree. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); OUTSOURCING (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); HISTORY (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); IMMIGRATION (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



399 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: Delta and Northwest in $3 Billion Deal

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY and MICHELINE MAYNARD; Andrew Ross Sorkin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines agreed to merge late Monday, in a $3.1 billion deal that would create the world's biggest airline and could prompt other airlines to pursue mergers of their own.
 The deal could be followed quickly by another, airline executives and industry analysts said. A leading candidate is a combination of United Airlines and Continental Airlines, which have explored the idea. The airlines now may try to get the deal wrapped up within the next 30 days, a person with direct knowledge of the negotiations said Monday night. He spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.
 The Delta-Northwest agreement came despite failed efforts to get pilots at both airlines to agree on how to combine their own ranks, an issue that could lead to labor unrest and disruptions to flight operations in the coming years. Northwest pilots immediately said they would oppose the deal.
 That was not a surprise to management. The threat of rising fuel prices -- and the idea that a merger would bring huge cost savings -- overcame the concerns about pilots in recent weeks 
 Northwest shareholders would receive 1.25 Delta shares for each of 236.4 million Northwest shares outstanding.
 Seven board members from Delta and five from Northwest would join the board of the new airline, to be known as Delta. The Air Line Pilots Association, which represents pilots at both airlines, would receive a board seat.
 Richard H. Anderson, Delta's chief executive, would run the new airline and Delta's chairman, Daniel A. Carp, would retain that role. Roy J. Bostock, a Northwest board member who also sits on Morgan Stanley's board, would become vice chairman. Douglas M. Steenland, Northwest's chief executive, would have a seat on the board but would not have a role in day-to-day operations. 
 Delta and Northwest are betting that cost cuts and the benefits of a bigger route network would outweigh the potential operating chaos and labor unrest that can result from airline mergers.
 Other airlines may rush to merge. One reason for the urgency is that airlines want to get their deals approved by the Justice Department under the Bush administration, rather than risk seeing them stall until a new president takes office.
 Glenn F. Tilton, United's chief executive, has been eager for a merger, but Continental has resisted, saying it wanted to wait to see if the combination of Delta and Northwest came about. The chief executive of Continental, Lawrence W. Kellner, called it ''good news'' last month when it appeared that the Delta-Northwest talks had cooled. 
 At the end of 2007, Delta and Northwest employed a combined 89,000 workers. American Airlines, currently the largest carrier, had 85,500. Delta said the combined airline would employ 75,000 people. That number excludes 6,000 people who work at Delta's regional airline and Delta said earlier that it would reduce employment by 2,000. 
 Executives worked hard in recent months to win the support of the 6,300 Delta pilots and the 4,500 Northwest pilots.
 That effort was not successful. The two pilot groups could not agree on a merger of their seniority lists, which are important in determining pay, schedules and the type of plane they fly.
 Mr. Anderson of Delta faced the choice of either abandoning the deal or pushing ahead and risking hostilities from pilots that could cripple his efforts to quickly combine the two carriers' operations and make them run more smoothly.
 Mr. Anderson appears to have pursued a divide-and-conquer strategy with the pilots. He entered into a new contract with Delta pilots, which gives them a raise and a 3.5 percent stake in the new company, and gives him more flexible work rules with which to run a combined airline. The Northwest pilots were left out. Their union chief, Dave Stevens, said the group ''will use all resources available to aggressively oppose the merger.''
 Mr. Steenland, the Northwest chief, said in a brief interview Monday night that he planned to continue talking with pilots there to negotiate a contract that would, over time, bring them up to the Delta pilots' rate of pay. He also wants the two pilot groups to work again on a shared seniority list.
 Another 4 percent stake in the combined company is to be handed out to domestic nonpilot workers at both companies. Delta said no hubs would be closed, though it did not say what level of operations it would maintain at its hubs. The company expects $1 billion in annual savings. And it expects to spend $1 billion on transition costs to integrate the two companies.
 The merger is subject to antitrust review by the Justice Department and to approval by shareholders at both companies. Delta expects to have $7 billion in cash in the combined company as a cushion against the current airline downturn.
 Beyond enlisting members of Congress and the Justice Department to oppose the deal, Northwest pilots have little opportunity to prevent a merger.
 But they can go a long way toward keeping a completed merger from being successful. At US Airways, the product of a 2005 merger with America West Airlines, pilots are still litigating over a combined seniority list. 
 Pilots can also engage in legal work slowdowns, which can lead to late and canceled flights. 
 The airline industry appears headed into a steep downturn. The industry is highly vulnerable to further increases in fuel prices -- incurring $200 million in annual costs for every penny per gallon that fuel rises.
 Michael Linenberg, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, noted Monday in a report that jet fuel in some markets had surged recently to as high as $3.50 a gallon. Mr. Linenberg had expected fuel costs of $3 a gallon this year to produce an industry loss of $2 billion.
 But if fuel prices move to $3.50 and stayed there for the industry, he said losses could soar to $12 billion this year. Before that happened, airlines would probably ground huge parts of their fleets, lay off workers and otherwise retrench.
 The deal comes nearly 30 years after the domestic airline industry was deregulated. But deregulation did not bring forth a flood of new and innovative airlines pushing aside the old guard, as some had envisioned. Instead, the industry since 1978 has been dominated by familiar names -- Delta and Northwest among them.
 Through bankruptcies, strikes and a broad decline in service, the old-line carriers have hung onto most of the market. And the merger, the largest ever among domestic carriers, is but the latest effort by old-line airlines to protect their businesses from low-cost rivals like Southwest, JetBlue and AirTran.
 ''The staying power of the legacy carriers is a source of continual amazement,'' said Steve Morrison, chairman of the economics department at Northeastern University and author of a book on airline deregulation.
 When oil prices shot past $100 a barrel, the jump effectively snuffed out an industry recovery that had barely begun, with Delta and Northwest having emerged from bankruptcy only months earlier. 
 Their survival again threatened, Delta, Northwest and others quickly began merger discussions.
 For consumers, one or more mergers could result in more crowded planes. Jets are already flying fuller than ever before because the domestic fleet shrank after Sept. 11, 2001. And airlines merging are now expected to ground more planes and cancel more flights.
 But even the companies' admirers expect over time that costs will be cut deeply. It is just not politic to say so. ''Note that while it's O.K. to downsize in other industries,'' Daniel McKenzie, an analyst at Credit Suisse, said in a report in February, in airlines, a merger announcement accompanied by one or two hub closings and the layoff of thousands ''won't get far, in our view.''
 Pardus Capital Management, an investment firm, estimated in November that a combination of Delta and Northwest could reduce costs by about $1.5 billion a year, in large part by combining hubs. Delta's hub in Cincinnati is close to Northwest's in Detroit. And Northwest's hub in Memphis is close to Delta's in Atlanta.
 Despite the agreement, it is not certain that the merger will ultimately be completed. Previous combinations -- notably United and US Airways in 2000 -- were abandoned in the face of antitrust scrutiny and opposition from unions.
 James Oberstar, the Minnesota Democrat who heads the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, opposed that 2000 merger and ''is generally opposed to any further consolidation,'' said a spokesman, James Berard. The House cannot technically block a merger, but it can hold hearings and encourage the Justice Department to scrutinize deals.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Northwest and Delta employed 89,000 workers in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES)(pg. C1) CHART: The Biggest Airline: The combination of Delta and Northwest would create the country's largest airline.(Source: Bureau of Transportation Statistics) Chart details bar graph for Delta and Northwest airline merger. (pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (92%); AIRLINES (92%); DELTA NORTHWEST MERGER (90%); MERGERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (98%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (66%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF TRANSPORTATION STATISTICS (59%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (98%); UAL (NYSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%)

PERSON: DOUGLAS M STEENLAND (79%); RICHARD H ANDERSON (59%); LAWRENCE W KELLNER (56%); GLENN TILTON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008



400 of 837 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: At Clinton's Side in Pennsylvania, a Dedicated and Often Blunt Promoter

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: KING OF PRUSSIA, Pa. 

 BODY:
Edward G. Rendell, the governor of Pennsylvania, demonstrated his value to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton last weekend, helping her quickly devise a strategy to counter and exploit remarks by Senator Barack Obama.
 When Mr. Obama provided an opening by saying that small-town voters in Pennsylvania facing hard economic times ''get bitter, they cling to guns or religion'' to explain their frustrations, Mr. Rendell was ready to pounce. 
 He instantly mobilized his political machinery, organizing many mayors in Pennsylvania to speak on Mrs. Clinton's behalf and to hold rallies. He also suggested that she reshuffle her schedule to visit Scranton, where her father grew up and where, in a hastily arranged visit on Sunday, she highlighted her link with small-town Pennsylvania.
 But Mr. Rendell could not actually speak with Mrs. Clinton, in part because he was consumed with the intricate task of negotiating with others to map out her final week before the state's primary next Tuesday -- deciding who gets to see the candidate, and who does not. 
 Few presidential candidates have ever had the benefit of a local promoter like Mr. Rendell, who before being elected governor was the mayor of Philadelphia. He is campaigning as vigorously for Mrs. Clinton's election as he would for his own, and constantly talking her up with remarks that, alas, sometimes go off message. (On Monday, he shrugged off the impact of Mr. Obama's comments. ''It will cost a couple of points at the margin, but it won't be a sea-changer,'' the governor said.) 
 But Mr. Rendell is at the ready. He helps craft Mrs. Clinton's messages, escort her around the state and introduce her at events. He has enlisted his fund-raisers to assist her, ginned up endorsements and coaxed some superdelegates into staying neutral until after the Pennsylvania primary. He has made commercials for her. He juggles state business and her political business with equal urgency -- haggling over financing for a development project in Wilkes-Barre and an airport expansion in Erie one minute, calling in to Andrea Mitchell on MSNBC the next. 
 His credibility as a local spokesman automatically vaulted him into the national spotlight.
 ''Every time I turn on the TV, I see you,'' Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, a leading supporter of Mr. Obama, told Mr. Rendell backstage recently at a Democratic dinner here in the Philadelphia suburbs.
 Mrs. Clinton's daughter, Chelsea, attended the same dinner. Ms. Clinton spoke briefly to the crowd, and when she said she was proud to be campaigning with Mr. Rendell, the audience whooped and hollered. ''Well, gosh,'' she said, looking slightly amazed. ''I feel like I should just stop there.''
 Mr. Rendell is redefining the role of political host, putting to shame the other Democratic governors who have endorsed either Mrs. Clinton or Mr. Obama and have helped them navigate their states ahead of a primary or caucus. 
 And his bluntness frequently makes for good copy. For example, he told reporters in March that he would happily support a Clinton-Obama ticket or an Obama-Clinton ticket (''Either way,'' he said). He said in a recent interview with The New York Times that the Clinton campaign had made some ''God-awful decisions.'' He also said that women had warmed up to her tremendously during the course of the campaign, after having initially considered her ''an intellectually snobby feminist.''
 But with a three-decade record on the public stage, Mr. Rendell is seen as an undeniable asset to Mrs. Clinton, particularly in the Philadelphia media market, where 40 percent of the state's voters live. He won re-election as governor in 2006 by a landslide 20 percentage points and generally gets good grades for sprucing up the reputation and finances of his Rust Belt state.
 Even as he promotes Mrs. Clinton -- she is the best prepared to be president, he says, and she ''gets it'' -- Mr. Rendell is careful to keep the door open with Mr. Obama should she not succeed in winning her party's presidential nomination. 
 In an interview in his ornate wood-carved office in Harrisburg, the governor referred to Mr. Obama several times in positive ways, as he did publicly at the Democratic dinner here. He frequently says he will ''work my butt off'' for Mr. Obama if Mr. Obama wins the nomination. His real ire is directed at the news media for ''drinking the Kool-Aid'' and not being tougher on Mr. Obama. ''The press hates the Clintons,'' he said in the interview. ''No question about it.''
 Mrs. Clinton, of New York, still maintains a lead in the polls here, but that lead was shrinking, at least before Mr. Obama, of Illinois, made his comments about small-town voters. Even Mr. Rendell had been revising downward his estimate of her margin of victory, to four percentage points from five -- far lower than the double-digit lead that polls first suggested she held here.
 If Mrs. Clinton does not win Pennsylvania, most agree, she cannot go on.
 But if she does win, and by a healthy margin, Mr. Rendell, 64, who is in his second and final term as governor, will undoubtedly receive a good share of the credit -- and perhaps some of the political spoils should she make it to the White House.
 The Clinton administration delivered for Philadelphia when Mr. Rendell was mayor, providing help to revitalize the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard and to put more cops on the streets, a program that Mrs. Clinton said last week she would revive. President Bill Clinton appointed Mr. Rendell's wife, Marjorie O. Rendell, to the federal bench in 1994 and elevated her to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in 1997. He named Mr. Rendell chairman of the Democratic National Committee during the 2000 election.
 While some suggest that Mr. Rendell may be angling for vice president, he is an unlikely choice. A native New Yorker and a Jew, he would not expand Mrs. Clinton's base. But he does not rule out interest in serving in her cabinet, after his term as governor ends in 2011.
 They are clearly comfortable with each other; Mrs. Clinton seems to light up around Mr. Rendell and enjoy the game a bit more. Those who know him and Mr. Clinton say the two share many traits, like outsized personalities, a natural gift for politics and a love of the sport (and sports, or at least watching them on television).
 As Mr. Rendell gripped a map of the state last week and pointed to yellow circles around the towns he wanted Mr. Clinton to visit, he laughed at the former president's eagerness. ''He's a bear,'' said Mr. Rendell, chuckling, as he planned a route through the hinterlands. ''He always wants more. Hillary never asks for more, but Bill always asks for more.'' 
 And the strategy in sending Mr. Clinton to these outposts? ''Basically he goes to the places that nobody else goes to,'' Mr. Rendell explained, ''and it was apparently very effective in Texas.'' A little chuckle at what was unsaid: That Mr. Clinton, like him, can wander off-message, but he draws big crowds in places that have never seen a former president.
 Mr. Rendell was initially neutral in the race for the Democratic nomination, out of deference to two friends who were also candidates, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware and Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico. After they dropped out, Mr. Rendell endorsed Mrs. Clinton, just before Feb. 5, when Delaware and New Jersey were among the states voting. Areas of both are in the Philadelphia media market.
 Once Ohio and Texas breathed new life into Mrs. Clinton's candidacy on March4, the primary in Pennsylvania suddenly mattered. Mr. Rendell swung into action, but he insists that the time he is devoting to her cause has not cut in to his devotion to state business. He says he simply gets up earlier and goes to sleep later. 
 That consuming energy is part of what makes him an effective surrogate. ''He jumps in with both feet,'' said Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, who first hired Mr. Rendell when Mr. Specter was Philadelphia's district attorney in the 1970s. ''He knows the territory. And he knows where the bodies are buried.''
 Mr. Rendell describes himself as ''the last of the Mohicans,'' by which he means he is loyal to the end, even if the tide may look like it is going the other way
 ''Last of the Mohicans!'' he said to Mr. Kennedy when they met here. It was a reminder that Mr. Rendell had stuck with Mr. Kennedy through his ill-fated bid for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1980.
 The governor had also given a lift to Senator John Kerry in 2004, when he was the party's nominee. Now Mr. Kerry supports Mr. Obama, and he and Mr. Rendell recently squared off at a party event in Cumberland County. 
 ''All the people I've worked hard for, I'm now opposing them on TV,'' Mr. Rendell rued, sounding suddenly and uncharacteristically forlorn as he mulled Mrs. Clinton's campaign. ''I do feel like the last of the Mohicans. It's me and Stephanie Tubbs.''
 Ms. Tubbs, a representative from Ohio, is also visible in her support for Mrs. Clinton. ''No disrespect to Stephanie,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania is seen as an undeniable asset for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as she campaigns ahead of the state's primary.
 Mr. Rendell, with Edward M. Kennedy, describes himself as ''the last of the Mohicans,'' loyal to the end. Right, Democrats listened to him stump for Mrs. Clinton.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SUPERDELEGATES (72%); FUNDRAISING (66%); AIRPORTS (50%)

PERSON: ED RENDELL (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); TED KENNEDY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%); ERIE, PA, USA (79%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (73%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2008

 
