

401 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Clinton Details His Policy For Economic Growth
President Clinton declared that the economic turmoil roiling three continents constituted "the biggest financial challenge facing the world in a half-century." In a half-hour address to a friendly audience at the Council on Foreign Relations in Manhattan, he detailed a strategy to quell the trouble before it puts "our own prosperity at risk."
Mr. Clinton called on the world's leading economies to abandon their fear of inflation and instead "spur growth." The finance ministers and central bank governors of the world's seven largest economies issued a parallel statement intended to open the door to coordinated interest-rate cuts. Page A1. 

The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 4/32, to 104 4/32 in response to the Group of Seven and to an Atlanta Fed report that Southern manufacturing growth was slowing. C10.
 
John F. Smith Jr., chairman of General Motors, urged the Federal Reserve to reduce interest rates to avert a recession. C2.
 
Russia Turns to Economic Veterans
A half-dozen alumni of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's varsity economic squad are again at the center of Russia's economic policy debate, commandeered by Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov to recommend a reconstruction of the Russian economy. A1.
 
Analysts expect Russia to default on up to $200 billion in foreign debt next year, unless it can raise fresh funds or delay payments. A12.
 
Anna Murdoch Leaves News Board
Anna Murdoch, the estranged wife of Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, has left the board of the company. Mr. Murdoch has always said she made a major contribution as a director and, should he die, she could easily serve as chairman, until his adult children whom he is grooming to run the company were ready. Wall Street had little reaction to the divorce news. C5.
 
Phillips in Big Kazakhstan Oil Deal
Phillips Petroleum and the Japanese-owned Indonesian Petroleum Company signed oil- and gas-exploration deals with Kazakhstan in Central Asia that could be worth several billion dollars. C4.
 
Economic Blows in Vigorous Mexico
Mexico's once robust economy has been hit in recent weeks by an 18 percent drop in the peso's value, a 40 percent surge in interest rates and a 50 percent slide in stock prices, but has not caved in. C4.
 
Brazilian Market Regaining Footing
Brazil's stock market appeared to regain equilibrium after dizzying losses last week, shored up by higher interest rates, Government stock purchases and suggestions that the I.M.F. would lend a hand. C4.
 
Allied Signal Bid for AMP Advances
Allied Signal's hostile $9.8 billion takeover battle for AMP, a maker of electronic equipment, escalated, as investors owning 72 percent of AMP stock agreed to sell their shares to Allied Signal, which said it would buy 40 million, or 18 percent. That would make it the largest shareholder without setting off AMP's anti-takeover provision. C22.
 
American Phones for the Taliban
Telephone Systems International, a privately owned company in Parsippany, N.J., has signed a $240 million contract to build a cellular telephone system for the Taliban, the Islamic fundamentalists who control most of Afghanistan and whom the White House has accused of harboring Osama bin Laden, the suspected terrorist leader. C2.
 
October Trial for Microsoft Case
The Government's antitrust case against Microsoft will go to trial Oct. 15, a Federal judge decided. He denied the company's request to throw out the case. C5.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,945.35, up 149.85
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.22%, down 0.01
The Dollar -- 132.68 yen, up 1.86
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
Retail Sales
 August figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.5%
 
Another graph tracks the share price of AMP Inc., since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); COP (NYSE) (81%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (81%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (81%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (81%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (81%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); BRAZIL (92%); MEXICO (92%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (82%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (81%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (58%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (58%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); BRAZIL (92%); MEXICO (92%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BONDS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT (75%); BOND MARKETS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); TAKEOVERS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); ELECTRONICS (64%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



402 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE LESSONS;
Teachers Scrap Lesson Plans To Grapple With Starr Report

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
With the Starr report very much on the minds and lips of her seniors at the Bronx High School of Science yesterday morning, Marilyn Reinhardt opened her fourth-period literature class by scribbling three one-word questions on the blackboard: "Psycho? Devil? Victim?"
She then asked her students whether President Clinton's behavior with Monica S. Lewinsky, as well as his apparent attempts to cover it up, was most like that of the psychologically flawed Reverend Dimmesdale of "The Scarlet Letter," the unrepentant killer Mersault of Albert Camus's "The Stranger" or Jay Gatsby, whom she characterized as a victim of the prevailing ethos of the Roaring Twenties, which she defined as "get rich quick by any means, but then no one comes to your funeral." 
 From the back of the room, one 17-year-old girl raised her hand. "I don't think he's any of the three," she said. "He's just a man. All men cheat."
"So it's biological destiny," Ms. Reinhardt replied, " 'Stand by Your Man,' as Tammy Wynette said in that song."
If this had been any other September, Ms. Reinhardt would have spent the third day of the school year yesterday introducing her students to Wordsworth, Keats and Jane Austen. But after reading the report by the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, over the weekend, she -- like many other teachers across the country -- concluded that her original lesson plan just could not compete.
And so, imploring their classes to cast aside any nervous snickers, teachers at middle schools, high schools -- and even in the older grades of some elementary schools, based on visits to more than a dozen schools throughout the metropolitan New York region yesterday -- wove the scandal into their lesson plans. Some saw it as a golden opportunity to get their students to think about larger issues like morality or impeachment that might otherwise have put them to sleep.
Some teachers' only dilemma, it seemed, was not whether to discuss Mr. Clinton's troubles, but in how much detail.
In Kitty Rooney's 12th-grade class at Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, the words "sex" and "sexual intercourse" flew around the room, with little giggling. Never mind that the subject was government and the setting was a Catholic school.
"I know the Constitution class can be formulaic and dry," Ms. Rooney said, "but now the students are very interested. It's living history."
As the students struggled to form opinions, many found themselves as conflicted as their parents.
Rebecca Bascio, a social studies teacher at Public School 111 in midtown Manhattan, asked her seventh graders to write a paragraph about whether the President should be impeached.
"Yes, because he shouldn't of cheated on his wife," one girl wrote, adding in the same paragraph, "No, because it is his personal business."
For any teacher who brought up current events yesterday, the challenge was to keep the unvarnished language of the independent counsel's report from spilling over into class and derailing any meaningful conversation.
Lawrence Garvey, a social studies teacher at Intermediate School 195 in Harlem, navigated between the document's seamiest sections likes a ship's captain steering clear of icebergs.
In his seventh-grade class yesterday, he described Ms. Lewinsky only as someone who "wanted to be the president's girlfriend." He said he was careful not to give his 12- and 13-year-old students any more knowledge than they absolutely needed, because of the wide range of their own experiences. Some have not yet reached puberty, while one 12-year-old girl already has had a baby.
"I'm not a sex education teacher," he said. "I'm not about to test the limits of what is allowed in the classroom."
In the social studies department office at Bronx Science yesterday, the talk among teachers between periods was of how graphic they should be in the classroom.
Irene Blair, who teaches government and American history, said that questions about the impeachment process would be fair game, but that she would swat down any questions that bumped up against "sexual matters." She intended to direct students to "refer it to your families."
But as he prepared for his fifth-period American history class, in which he had decided to scratch his planned lecture on post-Civil War reconstruction, Jim Uldrych said he intended to put no brakes on the discussion of Mr. Starr's findings among his seniors. "At a certain point, you gotta discuss that, too," he said, speaking of some of the report's most salacious passages. "You can't run from it."
As it turned out, it was his students who reined in the discussion to keep it G-rated.
In response to Mr. Uldrych's initial question asking for general reaction to the report, one girl in the front row scrunched her face in disgust.
"It goes way too far," she said. "It's like a porn novel. It's not necessary to the investigation."
"I'm not interested in what went on," she added, "and I'm certainly not interested in what I know now."
Following his students' lead, Mr. Uldrych led a spirited, Phil Donahue-style discussion that touched on whether the Starr investigation represented a proper use of tax dollars, whether the independent counsel had proven high crimes and misdemeanors, and whether any of this would affect the economy.
"Lots of people don't mind he had an affair because the economy is good," one girl said. "Clinton better hope it doesn't go down."
Two periods later and one floor down, Mary Robinson asked the juniors in her American literature course how 17th century Puritans would have viewed President Clinton's acknowledged sins.
"Are we more fair-minded now?" she wondered.
"Sixty-two percent still support the President," said one girl in the last row, referring to some polls. "Back then they would have been more harsh."
The students in Eric Plaks' third-grade class at Public School 192 in West Harlem never raised the names Lewinsky and Clinton. But that's not to say they were oblivious to the names of another couple joined in the headlines.
"They're more interested in McGwire and Sammy Sosa," Mr. Plaks said, invoking the names of the combatants in baseball's record-shattering home run derby. "They're all on Sammy's side."
In other schools, the students were eager to talk but found their teachers were unprepared to do so.
After school at Hackensack High School in northern New Jersey, four teachers who had gathered in the English and social studies department office said that they were horrified to learn that their students were far better versed in the report's findings than they. While several pledged to go home and study the report, Bette Parslow would have none of it.
"I told my students I did not want to read it," said Ms. Parslow, who teaches United States history. "I know the gist of what it is going to say. I'm a grown-up. I know what goes on. I just don't need to wallow in it."
Conflicted over what exactly to say to her students, Ms. Parslow thought she might relate her own disillusionment with Mr. Clinton by likening it to her father's reaction upon learning, years after Franklin D. Roosevelt's death, that he had had an affair in and around the White House.
"My parents idolized him," she said. "My father didn't want to believe it."
In the end, for all the talking they may have done in schools, some children left far more confused than when they had arrived yesterday.
Describing the level of knowledge of her 10-year-old son Emil, who is in the fifth grade at R.J. Bailey School in Greenburgh, N.Y., Geraldine Wiles said: "He's got Tara Lipinsky and Monica Lewinsky's names mixed up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Are we more fair-minded now?" Mary Robinson asked her American literature class at Bronx High School of Science yesterday as students considered how Puritans would have viewed President Clinton's behavior. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. A23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); HISTORY (77%); ETHICS (76%); CITIES (62%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W; STEINBERG, JACQUES BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



403 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: City on Life Support Tries to Rally;
Camden, N.J., Seeks to Reverse Four Decades of Decline

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J., Sept. 9

 BODY:
It seemed that the troubles plaguing Camden for the last four decades had entered a strange new chapter when Mayor Milton Milan said in February that drug dealers had made him the target of a murder contract.
The Mayor did not say who had threatened his life or why. But in describing the plot, he sketched a stark portrait of the despair enveloping the city's streets, a place where the unemployment rate is 14 percent, the high school dropout rate is 70 percent and the price on the head of even the highest-ranking city official is dismally low. 
 "There are drug addicts who sell their TV, or their bodies for $20, so I knew that for $150, someone might do anything," Mr. Milan said last week. "I had to take it seriously."
At one time this city of 87,000 people in the shadow of Philadelphia was a thriving manufacturing center, home to prosperous corporations including RCA, Campbell's Soup and Knox Gelatin. Today, nearly every residential neighborhood has fallen into decay, and empty warehouses, abandoned factories and crumbling row houses litter the community like an industrial Acropolis.
Camden's two glittering riverfront projects, the Sony E-Center Amphitheater and the State Aquarium, have won praise from city officials and the public. But the projects, built at a cost of more than $100 million, have yet to deliver on the promise to spur waterfront investment and help revive the city's core.
After years of stagnation, political infighting and decline, the situation reached a flash point this summer, when Camden's leaders made their annual request that the state pay the city's deficit.
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman provided $15 million to cover the shortfall, then took the drastic step of appointing a State Financial Review Board to monitor every nickel of Camden's spending. The move insulted city officials and residents, who who have long felt that Camden's large minority population did not receive its share of public resources.
Seven political leaders, including Mr. Milan, met for the first time on Sept. 3 to begin scrutinizing the city's $116 million budget and eliminating its perennial deficit.
But beyond that belt-tightening, the Mayor and the state overseers also hope to bridge their political, cultural, philosophical and racial differences and address a more intractable issue: How can Camden, a proud city with a resistance to revitalization, pull itself out of social despair and economic irrelevance?
"We don't make soup here any more," said Tom Halpern, chairman of the waterfront development group Cooper's Ferry, and chief executive of Cooper Hospital. "We don't make ships or radios. We need to find an economic rationale, a reason that people or businesses have to come to Camden. And until we do that, all the good intentions aren't going to change things in the neighborhoods."
Like many manufacturing cities, Camden's economic base began to erode during the 1950's. The racial tensions of the 60's, when Camden was shaken by riots, intensified the middle class exodus from the city.
But while other cities found paths to recovery, Camden met an assortment of obstacles. Jersey City and Hoboken prospered by offering convenient, inexpensive office space and housing as an alternative to Manhattan. Camden sits across the Delaware River from Philadelphia, a city with no shortage of affordable real estate.
And although Camden has received tens of millions of dollars in aid from the state and Federal governments, a 1996 audit found that the county and city Democratic political machine squandered huge sums through patronage jobs and sweetheart contracts.
The combination of rising property tax rates and fleeing businesses has left this city of nine square miles with just a single supermarket and no movie theaters. According to census figures, the per-capita income in Camden today is just $7,276, the fifth poorest in the nation.
Experts who talk about renewal employ a vocabulary usually used for the developing world: phrases like "capacity building," "sustainable development" and "generating a critical mass of capital."
"The resources just aren't there," said Joseph J. Roberts, the Democratic State Assemblyman who represents the area. "Can Camden do a better job of running its operation? Probably. But even if it were done as efficiently as possible, the problem is of such a magnitude that you need an infusion of funds."
Mr. Milan was elected Camden's first Hispanic Mayor last year, and to assure residents that he could restore order to the streets, he quickly began a "quality of life" crackdown like Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's. One of his earliest efforts was a city ordinance forcing takeout restaurants to close by midnight because drug dealers gathered there.
The plan sparked complaints by restaurant owners, but was eventually enacted. Yet on a recent night on Camden's North Side, four teen-agers sat on the stoop of a Chinese restaurant passing a bottle. The restaurant was closed, but one of the teen-agers hailed passers-by, offering to sell cocaine.
"When Camden had jobs, and people had enough to eat, people didn't turn to crime, you could walk around anytime, day or night, " said the Rev. James E. Fitten of Shalom Baptist Church. "But now, it's been bad for so long, so many promises have been broken, that people are afraid to hope."
Governor Whitman's abrupt decision to form the oversight board was viewed as highhanded by many Camden residents. The city's population is 80 percent minority, overwhelmingly Democratic and wary of ceding power to a Republican Governor in a state with a history of favoring suburbs over cities.
Robert Bailey, a Rutgers University professor, said the oversight board is a risky venture for the state. If the plan succeeds in revitalizing Camden, Mrs. Whitman can claim credit for solving one of New Jersey's most difficult problems.
"But if the state is going to go in there and shout and scream that 'Your budget is out of balance!' without paying the cost for updating the management system of the city or bringing in the expertise, then this whole attempt is going to fail," said Mr. Bailey, who wrote a book about the oversight board that dealt with New York's fiscal crisis of the 1970's. "And in the long run, it will do more harm than good."
Officials from the Whitman administration say they have already been encouraging economic development and neighborhood renewal in Camden. They point to a recent start-up business producing affordable modular housing, which will provide at least 40 new jobs, and to a state residential development plan that recently built 18 new homes on Washington Street. State officials also hope to persuade businesses on the Route 1 corridor, where a boom in high technology and health care has buoyed New Jersey's economy, to rent office space in Camden.
"We're trying to work around what the community wants to do," said Jane M. Kenny, the Community Affairs Commissioner. "Our first priority is to help the city fill its structural deficits. And once people see that their tax dollars are being handled wisely, my hope is that the private sector will view Camden as an excellent place to invest and create jobs."
Mr. Milan, who views himself as an insurgent who rose from Camden's troubled streets, unsuccessfully fought the review board in court and has been forced to embrace the arrangement. He now plans to use the panel to pinpoint budget problems and absorb the blame for any politically unpopular remedies like layoffs, budget cuts or renegotiating labor contracts with city workers.
"If I said what I really feel, then nothing would get done," Mr. Milan said. "There are people in the wings who tell me that the state government is full of rich white Republicans from the suburbs. They don't understand what its like to be poor, or black or Latino. I tell them that that may be true, but I've got to set aside my activism and work with them to help the community. What other choice do I have?"
Mr. Milan said he hopes to use the $21 million in Federal money for an empowerment zone to lure light manufacturing companies to the city's office parks. He also plans to ask the city's hospitals and universities, which are tax exempt and make up 47 percent of Camden's land, to help finance neighborhood and downtown renewal programs.
City officials hope that by cooperating with the review board, the Whitman administration will allow Camden to levy a 6 percent entertainment tax on revenues from the Sony E-Center, the aquarium and other riverfront developments.
Mr. Milan views the waterfront as the basis of renewal. There is talk of building a tramway across the Delaware River to shuttle tourists from Penn's Landing in Philadelphia. Mr. Milan envisions a complex of restaurants, retail centers and museums, like Harborplace in Baltimore.
In recent months, state officials and community groups took a small symbolic step in that direction, by refurbishing the stained-glass mural, which had been smashed by vandals, at the top of the vacant RCA building. The company's famous logo -- Nipper the dog, listening to "his master's voice" on a Victrola -- will soon be lighted up at night, a beacon of hope over the struggling riverfront.
"When people think of Camden, I want them to think of the waterfront," Mr. Milan said. "Camden's waterfront and its location are what helped the city grow in the first place. And they'll help us turn things around again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: From the ravaged neighborhoods of south Camden, N.J., the Philadelphia skyline can be seen beyond the Delaware River. A stained-glass mural atop the RCA building was repaired recently, and the famous "his master's voice" logo will soon be lighted at night. Mayor Milton Milan, in the Fairview section of his once thriving but now decaying city, says he is the target of a murder contract. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. B1); The future seems bleak for children in Camden, where the high school dropout rate is 70 percent and people are afraid to hope. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: MILAN, ITALY (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%); DOVER, DE, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY STATE AQUARIUM STATE FINANCIAL BANK-WATERFORD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY STATE AQUARIUM

GEOGRAPHIC: CAMDEN (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); MILAN, ITALY (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (67%); DOVER, DE, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SONY E-CENTER AMPHITHEATER (CAMDEN, NJ); AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL CITIES (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); TRENDS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (62%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (56%); 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; MILAN, MILTON (MAYOR) MILTON MILAN (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



404 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: City Hall Gets First Plans for Governors I.

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
In the first round of proposals for reusing Governors Island, 20 developers, civic groups and advocates of open space have given City Hall plans for the island's future.
The proposals reflect the divergent interests that have surfaced since President Clinton's 1996 offer to help turn the former Coast Guard base in New York Harbor over to the city. They include plans for new apartments for up to 75,000 people, a monorail running the quarter mile or so from the island to Brooklyn, and an amusement park. 
 As widely expected, New York University and Columbia University submitted a joint proposal to pay for the upkeep of the island's village, which dates from the mid-19th century, and use it to house faculty and graduate students.
Unlike the more formal plans that would be required under the procedure that the city uses for large-scale development of city-owned property, known as "request for proposals," the ideas submitted by the city deadline of Friday are merely preliminary, sometimes vague, outlines and do not require any commitments by their writers or the city.
"We have some very promising proposals, but it will take time to analyze them and we are not going to make any public statements until we have," said Charles Millard, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, which had asked for the proposals after the city and state were widely criticized as failing to seize on the President's offer quickly.
That offer, first made by Mr. Clinton in a conversation with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, was conditioned on officials finding an acceptable public purpose for the site.
The first response of senior advisers to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki was that the cost of maintenance, particularly of the village, a Federal landmark that could deteriorate now that it is unoccupied, would be too much to bear unless subsidized by a highly profitable private venture. City officials have suggested a luxury resort and gambling casino.
Whether plans for a casino were among the suggestions could not be determined yesterday, and Mr. Millard declined to describe the contents of any of the proposals. Nor would he discuss what the next step would be in the city's effort.
According to several people involved in the planning process, quick decisions are necessary because the United States Coast Guard, which maintained the island as a base for more than 100 years, withdrew the last people in the spring. Although the Coast Guard has agreed to provide basic maintenance of the island's buildings temporarily, Congress has threatened to sell development rights to the highest bidder.
"It really is necessary to move fast on this," L. Jay Oliva, the president of New York University, said yesterday. Although the universities' proposal would encompass only the village buildings and undeveloped land that could be used as playing fields, he said the plan would be "a knockout."
"It is hard to imagine an academic site that would be more contiguous to the world of business," he said, citing the New York Stock Exchange and the city's growing software design and new-media companies.
While declining to reveal all the proposals, one senior City Hall official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed that they included plans by two groups first identified yesterday by The New York Post.
Those include a proposal for an amusement park and entertainment complex by the owners of Copenhagen's Tivoli Gardens, working in a partnership with a real estate investor, Patricia Kluge. LCOR, a Manhattan development company, proposed new housing, the report said.
Others submitting proposals to the city included civic organizations, apparently hoping to advance earlier efforts by the Regional Plan Association to retain as much of the island as possible for parks and open space. Those groups include the New York City Club and Nurture Our World.
The only group suggesting large-scale development on the island that agreed to discuss it yesterday was the Governors Island Development Alliance, led by Benjamin Holloway, a former vice chairman of the Equitable Life Insurance Company.
Christopher A. Wilson, a member of the group and an engineer and planner who has directed several large development projects, said the plan would include renovating some of the former Coast Guard administration buildings for use by software companies and other high-technology concerns. Although he declined to say whether the group had discussed its plan with the universities, he said it envisioned much of the island's historic village being used for student housing.
Other aspects of the group's plan would involve large-scale housing construction, he said, but probably not for several years. Within 20 years, he said, it would build enough new housing to increase the island's population from the 12,000 that could be accommodated in its existing buildings to as much as 75,000.
To provide access for the swelling population, he said, the plan envisioned ferry service by an independent company, and eventually a monorail system over the narrow channel of New York Harbor between the island and the Red Hook section of Brooklyn.
Mr. Wilson said the plan would be conditioned on his group obtaining control of the entire island, either in a 99-year lease or by purchasing it from the city. He said the group's proposal stated precisely how much it would pay and its estimate of the island's future maintenance costs, but he declined to reveal the terms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY; COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY; COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GOVERNORS ISLAND (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); CASINOS (69%); GAMING (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



405 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1798 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Mothers Lagging As Others Leave Welfare

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS 

 BODY:
For years, Ramona Rosario could savor the English-speaking world only through the soap operas flickering on her battered television set. Her husband refused to let her work, study English or venture beyond their Hispanic neighborhood in the Bronx.
And when she finally left him, more than a decade after she emigrated from the Dominican Republic, she had no job skills, no English language skills and no way to survive without a welfare check. 
 These days, Ms. Rosario studies English with 14 other Hispanic welfare mothers struggling to break into the work force. But as the unskilled women painstakingly fill their notebooks at Bronx Community College, many say they fear they may never put the shame of government charity behind them.
"I feel stuck," Ms. Rosario, 42, said in Spanish as she wearily listed the supermarkets, hospitals and clothing stores that have refused to hire her. "Sometimes, I think we're all stuck."
While white and black single mothers have left the welfare rolls in droves over the last three years, the number of Hispanic single mothers on public assistance has held almost stubbornly steady. And the disparity highlights a widening ethnic divide among New York City's poorest families.
Since 1995, the number of white single mothers on welfare has fallen 57 percent; the number of blacks has declined 30 percent and the number of Hispanic single mothers has dipped just 7 percent, city officials say. Today, the welfare rolls are 5 percent white, 33 percent black and 59 percent Hispanic, with more Hispanic parents receiving public assistance in New York City than in Miami or Los Angeles or the entire state of Texas.
The stark statistics reflect the struggles of thousands of welfare mothers like Ms. Rosario and her classmates, who arrived in America with gilded dreams only to find themselves trapped in poverty and crumbling tenements. Speaking little English and lacking the education, work experience and support systems of their black and white counterparts, most have failed to find work or other means of support, census data and city and state statistics show.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani often describes the overall 36 percent drop in the city's welfare rolls as one of his most important accomplishments, proof that the poor can successfully move from dependency to self-reliance. But the troubles of the Hispanic welfare mothers underscore the challenges that remain as Mr. Giuliani works toward his goal of moving all 200,000 welfare mothers into jobs, or at least workfare positions, by the year 2000.
In recent years, the number of highly disadvantaged Hispanic women on public assistance has surged, fueled largely by the doubling of the number of Dominican immigrants receiving government assistance from 1990 to 1996, census data indicate.
Puerto Ricans still make up the majority of Hispanic people on public assistance, according to a census analysis conducted by demographers at Queens College. But their numbers have held relatively steady, compared with the rapid rise of Dominicans, the city's fastest-growing group of immigrants, who typically speak less English and experience higher levels of poverty and unemployment than other Hispanic people.
And so far, city officials have been unprepared to meet their needs. This year, the city turned away hundreds of Spanish-speaking welfare mothers from English classes because they had more students than seats. Hundreds more were denied access to resume-writing courses and vocational training -- services available to English-speaking welfare mothers -- because most programs cannot accommodate students with limited English skills, city officials said.
Recognizing the need for additional programs, city officials say they have budgeted for a significant expansion of services to this population over the next 10 months. But Ms. Rosario's story also demonstrates how some women stumble over cultural roadblocks of their own, clinging to traditional views of motherhood that sometimes discourage them from seeking jobs or taking advantage of city training programs.
On the sidewalks of upper Manhattan and the Bronx, where street vendors sell sugar cane and sweet perfume, some welfare mothers hold fast to ideals from their homelands, seeing their primary role as stay-at-home mothers, and viewing day care centers and baby sitters with deep distrust.
And that view, welfare specialists and sociologists say, is sometimes reinforced by husbands and boyfriends who prefer their wives and girlfriends to tend children instead of working.
Maribel Baez, 29, who dreamed of learning English and data processing, put those goals aside when her husband, a truck driver, asked her to stay home with their two children. It was an easy decision, she said. She loved caring for her babies.
But now, eight years later, Ms. Baez says she is paying the price. Divorced and on the dole, she anguishes over letters in English from the welfare office, struggling to sound out the words she cannot understand.
And when she walks timidly into clothing stores looking for work, the onslaught of rapid-fire English often leaves her head spinning. Competition for jobs is so fierce in the poor neighborhoods where Hispanic welfare mothers live that some supermarket managers want even their employees who bag groceries to speak English.
"I feel awful, depressed, all of that," said Ms. Baez, who emigrated from the Dominican Republic 11 years ago and now combines English studies with a workfare job. "I cry at home alone."
But when asked whether she wanted to work full time, if she could find a job that would get her off welfare, Ms. Baez shook her head. "It's too many hours," she said. "I need to be with my children."
City officials say they have already begun to tackle the obstacles encountered by some Hispanic women. To make Hispanic welfare mothers more marketable, city officials plan to expand the number of work-study programs to accommodate 6,019 students in English classes this fiscal year, which began in July, a 25 percent increase over the previous year.
And the city's vocational training programs, which could accept only 160 Spanish speakers, will admit 1,225 this fiscal year, according to city officials.
But state statistics suggest that this expansion may leave thousands of Hispanic welfare mothers without language classes and training. Although New York City has begun to examine some of the barriers preventing welfare mothers from finding jobs, state social service officials conducted a comprehensive survey of those very issues seven years ago.
The state study, which surveyed 815 welfare mothers in New York City, found that 80 percent of the Hispanic women were born overseas. Thirty percent lacked ninth grade educations compared with nine percent of non-Hispanic women.
And at a time when manufacturing and garment industry jobs were vanishing, the officials reported that nearly half of all Hispanic women had most recently worked in factories, but 60 percent of non-Hispanic women had more marketable skills, having worked as clerical workers, store clerks or cooks.
"Hispanics are considerably less likely than other recipients to have acquired from their jobs the kinds of skills that are in demand in New York City's service-based economy," the state researchers wrote in their report, adding that limited educations left Hispanic welfare mothers at "severe disadvantage."
The study also reported that more subtle, cultural obstacles sometimes blocked Hispanic women from leaving the welfare rolls, including distrust of day care and low self-confidence.
Seventy-five percent of Hispanic mothers feared their that children would be mistreated in day care, compared with 45 percent of non-Hispanic mothers. And about 45 percent of Hispanic women feared they could not perform as well as others at work, compared with 26 percent of non-Hispanic women.
Concentrated in neighborhoods where they can buy groceries, rent apartments and enjoy television and radio without speaking English, many Hispanic welfare mothers, the study also noted, can get by without learning the language, until they have to find work.
Consequently, nearly half of all Hispanic welfare mothers could not speak English well, even though many had lived in New York City for years. And nearly 76 percent of Dominicans, who are more recent immigrants, struggled with the new language, the state statistics showed.
"The administration is trying to move aggressively on this, because if you don't speak English, how can I move you toward employment?" said Georgia Salley, who runs the city's work-study programs for welfare recipients.
"The challenge is to put more classes and vocational training geared toward people with limited language skills so they have a better chance of finding jobs," Ms. Salley said, "but it doesn't happen in a blink of an eye."
But advocates for the poor say city officials have known about the shortage of services for years. In 1991, state officials called for an expansion of education and training programs for Hispanic welfare mothers. And in 1994, lawyers for the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund filed a Federal lawsuit charging state and city officials with failing to provide such services.
That lawsuit, which was based on existing Federal laws, was withdrawn as city officials expanded their programs and the new welfare law was enacted in 1996. But the issue has acquired only greater urgency since then. Under the new rules, welfare mothers can receive cash benefits for only five years. And as the clock ticks, some advocates and sociologists worry: Will Hispanic welfare mothers be ready for a post-welfare world?
"As a sociologist, it worries me; as an individual, it worries me," said Ramona Hernandez, a sociologist at the University of Massachusetts in Boston, who recently published a study about the struggles of Dominican immigrants in New York City. "It's the future of a people we are dealing with here."
And in the classrooms at Bronx Community College, where single mothers studying English know their time on welfare is running out, the anxiety is palpable.
Some women try to focus on the success stories, on welfare mothers like Carmen Yangas, 37, who was hired as a secretary at the college after taking classes there. Others, like Ms. Rosario, dab their faces with holy water and pray to their saints for work.
Another woman, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said she simply tries to wipe her memory clean of all the job rejections and all the hours waiting for the one phone call that never comes.
"Hope is the last thing you lose," said the woman, a 40-year-old mother of four, her brown eyes flashing fiercely. "I'm going to find work. I have no choice."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Spanish-speaking women on welfare, struggling to break into the work force, studying English at Bronx Community College. The number of Hispanic single mothers on public assistance has held almost steady. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 
Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Single Parents on Welfare" shows single black, white and hispanic parents on welfare in New York City, for 1995 and 1998. (Source: Human Resources Administration)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: BRONX COMMUNITY COLLEGE (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRONX COMMUNITY COLLEGE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (91%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); HISPANIC-AMERICANS; BLACKS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); LABOR; WOMEN; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; DOMINICAN-AMERICANS; PUERTO RICANS; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); CITIES (87%); CENSUS (86%); FAMILY (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); WOMEN (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (75%); REFUGEES (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); STATISTICS (70%); IMMIGRATION (62%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (53%); 

PERSON: SWARNS, RACHEL RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



406 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 4533 words

HEADLINE: George Wallace, Symbol of the Fight to Maintain Segregation, Dies at 79

BYLINE: By HOWELL RAINES 

 BODY:
Former Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, who built his political career on segregation and spent a tormented retirement arguing that he was not a racist in his heart, died Sunday night in Montgomery, Ala. He was 79 and lived in Montgomery.
Mr. Wallace died of respiratory and cardiac arrest at 9:49 P.M., said Victoria Jones, a spokeswoman for Jackson Hospital in Montgomery. Mr. Wallace had been in declining health since being shot in his 1972 Presidential campaign by a 21-year-old drifter named Arthur Bremer. 
 Mr. Wallace, a Democrat who was a longtime champion of states' rights, dominated his own state for almost a generation. But his wish was to be remembered as a man who might have been President and whose campaigns for that office in 1968, 1972 and 1976 established political trends that have dominated American politics for the last quarter of the 20th century.
He said his underdog campaigns made it possible for two other Southerners, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, to be taken seriously as Presidential candidates. He also argued ceaselessly that his theme of middle-class empowerment was borrowed by Richard M. Nixon in 1968 and then grabbed by another Californian, Ronald Reagan, as the spine of his triumphant populist conservatism.
In interviews later in his life, Mr. Wallace was always less keen to talk about his other major role in Southern history. After winning his first term as Governor in 1962, he became the foil for the huge protests in which the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. destroyed segregation in public accommodations in 1963 and secured voting rights for blacks in 1965.
As a young man, Mr. Wallace came boiling out of the sun-stricken, Rebel-haunted reaches of southeast Alabama to win the governorship on his second try. He became the only Alabamian ever sworn in for four terms as Governor, winning elections in 1962, 1970, 1974 and 1982. He retired at the end of his last term in January 1987.
So great was his sway over Alabama that by the time he had been in office only two years, other candidates literally begged him for permission to put his slogan, "Stand Up for Alabama," on their billboards. Senators John Sparkman and Lister Hill, New Deal veterans who were powers in Washington and the national Democratic Party, feared to contradict him in public when he vowed to plunge the state into unrelenting confrontation with the Federal Government over the integration of schools, buses, restrooms and public places in Alabama.
It was a power built entirely on his promise to Alabama's white voting majority to continue the historic oppression of its disfranchised and largely impoverished black citizens. And it was snapshots of the peak moments of Mr. Wallace's campaign of racial oppression that burned him into the nation's consciousness as the Deep South's most forceful political brawler since Huey Long of Louisiana.
First, on Jan. 14, 1963, there was his inaugural address, written by a known Ku Klux Klansman, Asa Carter. In it, Mr. Wallace promised to protect the state's "Anglo-Saxon people" from "communistic amalgamation" with blacks and ended with the line that would haunt his later efforts to enter the Democratic mainstream: "Segregation now, segregation tomorrow, segregation forever."
Mr. Wallace's next signature moment came on June 11, 1963, when he mounted his "stand in the schoolhouse door" to block two black students, Vivian Malone and James Hood, from enrolling at the University of Alabama. Within days, it was convincingly reported that Mr. Wallace, fearing jail for defying a Federal court order, had privately promised President John F. Kennedy that he would step aside if first allowed to make a defiant speech.
Mr. Wallace's in-state critics denounced him for a "charade" that embarrassed the state. But the cold splash of reality did not dampen his plans to use Alabama as a stepping stone to the national political arena and to the anti-Big-Government speeches by which he obsessively longed to be remembered by history.
Mr. Wallace talked of running for President in 1964 as a neo-Dixiecrat candidate. But he backed off when the Republican nominee, Senator Barry Goldwater of Arizona, came out against the bill that later became the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Mr. Goldwater's move undercut Mr. Wallace's trademark assertion that "there's not a dime's worth of difference" between the two main parties on race.
After the election, Mr. Wallace regretted his timidity because he thought Mr. Goldwater had run a campaign of comical ineptitude, and when 1968 came around, he invented a party, drafted the eccentric retired Air Force general Curtis LeMay as his running mate, and began draining away the lunch-pail vote from Mr. Nixon.
One reason for his success was that Mr. Wallace always campaigned "with the tense urgency of a squirrel," in the memorable description of one biographer, Marshall Frady. Another reason was that his message worked among disaffected whites everywhere, not just in the South.
 
Code in His Message: Race and Rage
Mr. Wallace's political radar had picked up signals that Rust Belt workers and urban white ethnic Americans from Boston to Baltimore felt disgruntled about black students in their neighborhood schools and black competitors in the workplace. He cleaned up his language, but he used an expurgated list of demons -- liberals, Communists, the Eastern press, Federal judges, "pointy-headed intellectuals" -- to tap out in code words an updated version of his fire-hardened message from the Heart of Dixie. It was race and rage.
This blend of color prejudice and economic grievance appealed to enough voters to win him more than 13 percent of the popular vote and five states in the 1968 Presidential election.
In the 1972 race, he was running even stronger in the Democratic Presidential primaries. He rattled the party's establishment with a second-place finish in Wisconsin and a rapid ascent in the polls. He also won primaries in Maryland and Michigan on May 16, but got the news in a hospital bed, having been shot and paralyzed on the day before the balloting.
The injury from Mr. Bremer's bullet became a "thorn in my flesh," Mr. Wallace later said, and the truncated campaign became a thorn in his psyche. He died believing that had he not been shot, popular appeal would have forced the Democratic Party to put him on the ticket in 1972 to keep Mr. Nixon from sweeping the Sun Belt and blue-collar enclaves in the Middle West and Northeast.
Mr. Wallace ran again in 1976. From the start, aides noticed that the applause dwindled once crowds saw his shiny wheelchair. Mr. Wallace noticed it, too, and in private he disputed friends who reminded him that Franklin D. Roosevelt had won despite crutches and wheelchair.
"Yeah," Mr. Wallace told his confidant Oscar Adams, "they elected Roosevelt, but they didn't watch him on television every night getting hauled on a plane like he was half-dead."
The death of Mr. Wallace's Presidential dream came just before the Illinois primary, when he dropped out and endorsed a more modern Southerner with no segregationist baggage, Gov. Jimmy Carter of Georgia.
Mr. Wallace wanted to be remembered for his shining moment in 1972 and the Main Street themes he brought to prominence. Dan Carter, a professor of history at Emory University and author of the most detailed Wallace biography, "The Politics of Rage," supports the claim.
"It is difficult to conceive of what American politics of the 1960's, 70's and 80's would be like without George Wallace," Mr. Carter said in a 1994 interview. "I don't think there's a single issue that Nixon and Reagan talk of in terms of social issues that he doesn't get to first."
In this view, Mr. Wallace's Presidential campaigns prefigured, in an especially abrasive way, a large portion of the country's politics of later years. Mr. Wallace was the first major political figure in his generation to exploit the antipathy toward Washington that went on to be a prime force in politics from coast to coast.
He was also surely the first in his generation to galvanize the white, working-class voters later labeled as Reagan Democrats. And he was the first nationally known politician of that generation to put such raucous emphasis on race, crime, welfare and other issues that still loom large, if less crudely, on the political landscape.
After he retired as Governor, Mr. Wallace used interviews to push relentlessly at the theme that he was the real inventor of Reaganism. Starting in 1979, he also undertook a campaign of apology and revisionist explanation intended to erase the word "racist" from his epitaph.
He argued that his early devotion to segregation was based on his reading of the Constitution and the Bible and was misinterpreted as a racist hatred of black people.
"I made a mistake in the sense that I should have clarified my position more," he said in his last term as Governor. "I was never saying anything that reflected upon black people, and I'm very sorry it was taken that way."
That Mr. Wallace died haunted by race is appropriate to his life story -- one of Faulknerian perversity embodying the old themes of guilt and a steady, if clumsy, Snopsian aspiration.
 
Whetting a Taste For Underdog Politics
George Corley Wallace Jr. was born on Aug. 25, 1919, in Clio, Ala., a cotton town in Barbour County, where mule-drawn wagons were as common as cars on the unpaved main street. His father was the wastrel son of a beloved local doctor. His mother, Mozelle Smith Wallace, had survived abandonment by her mother and a depressing girlhood in an Episcopal orphanage at Mobile.
Like his father, George Jr. was quick with his fists and drawn to politics. Calling himself the "Barbour Bantam," he won two Golden Gloves titles while in high school.
As a 15-year-old legislative page at the Capitol in Montgomery, he stood on the gold star marking the spot where Jefferson Davis was sworn in as president of the Confederacy and where, by tradition, Alabama governors have taken the oath of office ever since. It was the seminal moment of his youth. Man and boy, George Wallace revered that spot, so much so that as Governor he ordered state troopers to encircle it so that a visitor, Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, could not put a desecrating Yankee foot atop it.
It was in 1937, on the oak-shaded Tuscaloosa campus of the University of Alabama, that George Wallace began to define what he would become politically. He arrived in the same shiny suit he had worn as a page in Montgomery, but Tuscaloosa was a congenial place for poor, ambitious country boys. And by tradition, it was a virtual boot camp for future governors and senators. Young Wallace won election as president of the freshman class.
He never won another student office, but his campaign to beat the fraternity machine with a coalition of independents and out-of-state students whetted his permanent taste for underdog politics.
The other leitmotifs of his Alabama career -- cronyism and betrayal -- emerged at the university. He acquired the hangers-on who staffed his later efforts, and he made an unlikely, but ill-fated friendship with Frank Johnson, a handsome law student from Winston County, a Unionist stronghold in northern Alabama that seceded from Alabama when Alabama left the Union. Mr. Johnson was a Republican, Mr. Wallace an ardent New Deal Democrat. Mr. Johnson joked about someday being a Federal judge and Mr. Wallace about being governor. But the big wheels on campus tended to dismiss Mr. Wallace's ambitions as comical.
For in those days, too, Mr. Wallace impressed people by his frenetic energy and tireless pugnacity rather than by any inherent attractiveness. He waited tables and drove taxis and slid through law school, cramming from borrowed books. Frank Johnson's wife, Ruth, was worried by Mr. Wallace's habit of chasing innocent high school girls, although she thought him more interested in the adoration than sexual conquest. Finally in 1943, at the age of 23, he decided to marry one of his naive admirers, a 16-year-old dime store clerk named Lurleen Burns.
It was wartime and Mrs. Wallace and their baby daughter, Bobbi Joe, born in 1944, followed wherever Mr. Wallace's flight training in the Army Air Forces took him. In later years, to underscore his humble roots, Mr. Wallace liked to tell about the time they rented a converted chicken house in Alamogordo, N.M. when he was serving his country. He shipped to the Mariana Islands as a flight engineer in the spring of 1945, assigned to fly bombing missions over Japan.
The biographer Dan Carter found fellow crew members who remembered Mr. Wallace's barracks lectures defending segregation in Barbour County. "I don't hate them," Mr. Wallace was reported to have said. "The colored are fine in their place. But they're just like children, and it's not something that's going to change. It's written in stone."
Mr. Wallace had been through nine combat missions by the time the war ended. He was discharged with a 10 percent disability for combat-induced "psychoneurosis," diagnosed after he refused orders to fly dangerous training missions when his unit returned to California after the Japanese surrender. Years later, in an ignoble political maneuver, Senator Wayne Morse, Democrat of Oregon, disclosed Mr. Wallace's wartime psychiatric history. Mr. Wallace responded that unlike his liberal attacker, he could prove that he was 90 percent sane.
After the war, Mr. Wallace began climbing up the political ladder with remarkable speed. Using his Barbour County connections, he was named an assistant to Alabama's Attorney General in 1946. The next year he won election to the Alabama Legislature. His wartime lectures on racial separatism notwithstanding, he allied himself with the racially moderate populist Gov. James E. Folsom and prevailed on Mr. Folsom to appoint him as a trustee of the all-black Tuskegee Institute.
As a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1948, Mr. Wallace refused to join the walkout by segregationist "Dixiecrats," a move that placed him firmly in the progressive, racially moderate wing of a state Democratic Party that still had "White Supremacy" emblazoned on its ballot emblem.
After this blooding in state and national politics, Mr. Wallace settled in as an elected district judge in his home county, serving from 1953 to 1958 and all the while laying plans to run for governor in 1958.
 
Race Issue Is Played For All It Is Worth
It was in the preparation of that race and its aftermath that Mr. Wallace committed two betrayals -- one personal and one political -- that blemished his reputation for life, but also gave him a generation-long stranglehold on Alabama politics.
The first came after 1958, when Mr. Wallace's surprisingly strong dark-horse candidacy failed. He had followed the tolerant racial line laid down by Governor Folsom and lost to John Patterson, whose devotion to massive resistance to court-ordered integration won him the following of the Ku Klux Klan. There were only about 5,000 Klan members, Mr. Patterson later recalled, but they helped him paper the state with campaign literature.
Later, Mr. Wallace, in a quotation whose authenticity he long disputed, was recorded as saying that no one "will ever out out-nigger me again."
Even if not literally true, the remark defined the strategy Mr. Wallace would use to ride to power. He started the very next year when his law school friend Frank Johnson, now a Federal judge with a strong civil rights record, ordered Mr. Wallace's court to surrender voter-registration records to the United States Civil Rights Commission. Mr. Wallace denounced Judge Johnson in public as a Federal dictator, but conspired secretly to avoid being jailed on Federal contempt charges by having a local grand jury surrender the records on his behalf.
Judge Johnson ruled that Mr. Wallace had used "devious means," but had nonetheless obeyed the Federal court order. Never one to be embarrassed by the facts, Mr. Wallace labeled Judge Johnson a "carpet-bagging, scalawagging liar" who wanted to mount "a second Sherman's March to the Sea."
Mr. Wallace had lost a friend but gained a nickname, "The Fighting Judge," that would help make him Governor in 1962 as an all-out segregationist with Klan backing. As Judge Johnson later told the Alabama writer Frank Sikora, Mr. Wallace had also established the tactical blueprint of his career: "misleading the people of Alabama for the purpose of pursuing his political career."
Mr. Wallace, of course, did not see it that way. He described himself as devoted to the economic development of his state and to advancing the causes of limited government and middle-class values in national politics. The reality was both uglier and more complicated.
In his four terms as Governor, Mr. Wallace saw an era of unparalleled corruption that operated through a crony system centered on his brother Gerald, a lawyer who died in 1993. With the Governor's approval, Gerald Wallace and his close associate, Oscar Harper, went into business selling the state office supplies, printing, vending machines and building leases. Gerald Wallace and Mr. Harper established an asphalt company with $1,000 in capital. In a year and half, the infant company garnered more than a million dollars in state contracts.
These unblushing accounts come not from political opponents, but from Mr. Harper's 1988 memoir, "Me 'n' George," regarded as one of the best guides to the inside dealing in Alabama's capital during the Wallace years.
"Most people have got the wrong idea about how I made my money," Mr. Harper wrote. "They think me and Gerald are crooks." Then he added: "That ain't true. It's just that good deals kept popping up and I never was one to turn a good deal down."
As this comment suggests, Mr. Wallace's first term was rowdy, even by the standards of a region that had produced Gov. Eugene Talmadge of Georgia, known as "The Wild Man from Sugar Creek."
It is one of the paradoxes of Southern history that Alabama's "Fighting Judge," by trying to revive the antebellum doctrine of states' rights, instead enabled the civil rights movement to reach its high-water mark. The Birmingham demonstrations in 1963 led to the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. Two years later the Selma march led to the passage of the 1965 Voting Rights Act.
Despite these triumphs, it was a dangerous time for blacks and whites who supported the civil rights movement. During the Wallace years, at least 10 people died in racially motivated killings in Alabama. Governor Wallace and his flamboyantly inept and drug-addled public safety director, Al Lingo, responded mainly by disrupting the Federal investigations into crimes like the bombing that killed four little girls at the 16th Street Baptist Church on Sept. 15, 1963.
Leaders of Alabama's business and educational establishment, always sensitive to the state's image, came to regard Mr. Wallace as an embarrassment. The Governor himself was hurt and stunned when students at his beloved alma mater greeted him with chants of "We're No. 50," a reference to the cash-starved university's academic standing.
But George Wallace was a creature of the storm who always had wind beneath his wings, and that wind was the adoration of the white farmers and factory workers and rural courthouse bosses who counted the votes and doled out patronage.
They loved it when Mr. Wallace waved his cigar, flooded his food with ketchup and said that the guy pumping gas at an Alabama crossroads knew more about Communism than the State Department.
When a surprisingly strong anti-Wallace faction in the Legislature refused to alter the state Constitution to allow him a second term, Mr. Wallace put his ailing wife Lurleen on the ballot in 1966. She won easily in a heart-rending campaign that demonstrated the scope of his ambition. Only a few weeks before her husband announced her candidacy, Mrs. Wallace had surgery and radiation treatment for the aggressive intestinal cancer that would kill her in 1968.
Political writers predicted that Alabamians would punish Mr. Wallace for his cynical use of a sick woman. But he was only shifting gears. He reclaimed the governorship in 1970 with the most flagrantly racist campaign of his career, warning that his progressive opponent, Albert Brewer, was using a black "block vote" to install a regime of Federal oppression. With Mr. Wallace's clear approval, the Klan circulated fliers falsely accusing the clean-living Mr. Brewer and his wife and daughters of sexual perversions and miscegenation.
It was a historic election for Alabama in two ways. First, Alabama was resisting the epochal progressive wave that swept the region in 1970 and installed New South governors like Jimmy Carter in Georgia and Reubin Askew in Florida. Secondly, Mr. Wallace was openly committing himself to the Presidential race track.
By Mr. Wallace's reckoning, his appeal to blue-collar voters outside the South had "shaken the eyeteeth" of both major parties in 1968. Indeed, President Nixon so feared Mr. Wallace's disruptive potential in 1972 that he supplied $400,000 to Mr. Wallace's opponent in the 1970 campaign for governor. But Mr. Wallace won with his racist attacks and his invitation to Alabamians to "send them a message" by launching him toward the 1972 Presidential race.
For a few months, Mr. Wallace was the hottest thing going. Gone were the pomaded hair and the bargain-store threads. His stylish new wife, Cornelia Ellis Snively, a niece of former Governor Folsom, decked out Mr. Wallace in modish, wide-lapel suits and taught him to use a blow dryer. Mr. Wallace talked less about race because he could afford to. His attacks on school busing let conservative whites know where he stood.
As Mr. Wallace moved toward victory in the Florida primary, President Nixon himself made an anti-busing speech that was regarded as a tribute to Mr. Wallace's growing appeal. Mr. Wallace finished second behind Senator George McGovern in the Wisconsin primary and second to former Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey in Indiana. Having established himself as a force in the Democratic Party, he was topping the polls in the primary campaigns of Maryland and Michigan.
But on the afternoon of May 15, at an unnecessary campaign rally in Laurel, Md., Mr. Wallace overruled the Secret Service and moved into a crowd for a final round of handshaking. "Hey, George, let me shake hands with you," shouted Arthur Bremer. Frustrated in an earlier ambition to kill Mr. Nixon, Mr. Bremer, had been stalking the Governor for weeks. From a range of three feet, the gunman shot Mr. Wallace three times, severing his spine and paralyzing him for life. Mr. Bremer is now in prison in Maryland, serving the 63-year sentence given him in June 1972.
Although his Presidential hopes ended, Mr. Wallace won two more terms as Governor by appealing to white loyalty and catering to the thousands of new black voters whose franchise he had opposed. But Mr. Wallace now behaved more like a pensioner than a chief executive. The constant pain from his wound -- "the thorn in my flesh" -- limited his concentration and resulted in a dependence on methadone and other painkillers. He went became pathologically jealous of his wife, Cornelia, who after a messy divorce in 1978 encountered her own problems with substance abuse.
Mr. Wallace's hope to found a dynasty foundered when his son, George Jr., proved a querulous campaigner who could not progress beyond minor state offices. Mr. Wallace married again to a failed country singer named Lisa Taylor. That marriage, too, generated sour publicity before they divorced in 1987.
He is survived by his sister, Marianne Dauphin Montgomery; four children from his first marriage: his son, of Montgomery; three daughters, Lee Dye of Greenville, Ala., Bobbie Jo Parsons of Birmingham and Peggy Sue Kennedy of Montgomery; a brother, Jack, of Clayton, Ala.; and several grandchildren.
Mr. Wallace won his last election as Governor in 1982, but it was historical revision, rather than running the state, that occupied his last years. Starting in 1977, he began giving interviews in which he said that political philosophy rather than racism was the motor of his career.
In a typical interview, he said: "The New York Times, the Eastern establishment newspapers never did understand that segregation wasn't about hate. I didn't hate anybody. I don't hate the man who shot me. When I was young, I used to swim and play with blacks all the time. You find more hate in New York, Chicago and Washington, D.C., than in all the Southern states put together."
As part of his rehabilitation effort, Mr. Wallace sought meetings with civil rights figures like the Rev. Ralph D. Abernathy, the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Representative John Lewis, whose beating on "Bloody Sunday" at Selma galvanized the voting-rights crusade.
Mr. Wallace made a well-publicized appearance at Dr. King's old church in Montgomery. Sometimes he even managed to use the magic words "I'm sorry."
After Mr. Wallace left office in 1987, Alabamians continued to support him through a figurehead position at Troy State University. By the time he died, Republicans had taken over the governorship, and Mr. Wallace's main legacy, a statewide system of trade schools, junior colleges, and small four-year institutions, was regarded as a monument to educational waste and redundancy that a poor state could ill afford.
One of his last public appearances was in the Spike Lee documentary "Four Little Girls," which tells the story of the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing. In his interview, Mr. Wallace insists that his best friend in the world was a black orderly. The obviously uncomfortable orderly keeps trying to walk out of the frame only to be tugged back by Mr. Wallace.
In public showings, that passage of the film usually drew laughter.
So ended the public career that saw Mr. Wallace move from being the most feared politician of his era to a pitiable relic. It is a career whose moral arc seemed, in retrospect, utterly predictable and utterly of a piece with the Faulknerian idea of racism's ineradicable curse.
At the height of his powers, George Wallace denied any moral responsibility for the violent acts that racked his state. And in his Bible-haunted state, many insisted that a terrible judgment had been visited upon him.
Brandt Ayers, the liberal editor and publisher of The Star newspaper in Anniston, put it this way: "The Governor we Alabamians knew was a man of primal passion: sincere champion of the working class, cynical manipulator of their resentments, a sorcerer summoning the beast in our nature, a man of deep insecurities, tenderness, and finally, humility."
He added, "When he came to my office in 1974 campaigning for governor, I told him: 'George, you always claimed to stand up for the little man, but everybody knows that the real underdog is the black man. We stood up for him. You didn't. Why?' He did not answer. He just looked down at his legs for what seemed a very long time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: IN COLLEGE -- George C. Wallace posed when he was a bantamweight fighter. (United Press International); AS POLITICIAN -- George Wallace was still in a fighting mood in 1968 when he addressed a joint session of the Louisiana Legislature. (United Press International); IN THE SCHOOLHOUSE DOOR -- Governor Wallace stopped Attorney General Nicholas Katzenbach, trying to enroll two black students at the University of Alabama in 1963. (Associated Press, 1963); IN SHOOTING'S AFTERMATH -- Cornelia Wallace knelt over her husband after he was shot. (United Press International, 1972); IN 1972 Governor Wallace addressed the Democratic National Convention. (Pictorial Parade)(pg. B10); SELMA ANNIVERSARY -- George Wallace met with civil rights leaders in Montgomery, Ala., in March 1985 on the 20th anniversary of the voting rights march from Selma, Ala. (United Press International)(pg. B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (99%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA; UNITED STATES (99%); ALABAMA, USA (99%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BLACKS; GOVERNORS (US); UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRENDS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CONSERVATISM (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, GEORGE C; RAINES, HOWELL MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



407 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Stocks Rise as a Result of Guarded Optimism, Analysts Say

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices posted strong, broadly based gains for the second consecutive session yesterday. Analysts and traders attributed the advance to some renewed optimism over corporate earnings and guarded hope that the industrialized economic powers would cooperate to overcome global economic problems that seemed so destabilizing a few weeks ago.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 149.85 points, or 1.92 percent, to 7,945.35. Earlier in the session the blue-chip indicator was up as much as 244 points. 
 Broader market measures also posted strong gains. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 20.66 points, or 2.05 percent, to 1,029.72. The Nasdaq composite index, which is heavily weighted in technology issues, increased 24.05 points, or 1.46 percent, to 1,665.69. The Russell 2000 index of small stocks rose 4.10 points, or 1.16 percent, to 357.72. On the Big Board, advancing issues outpaced stocks that fell in price by a ratio of slightly more than two to one. Volume was 714.4 million shares.
The gains followed a day of advances on foreign equity markets and a rally by the dollar on foreign-exchange markets.
Analysts and traders said investors in this country and elsewhere were encouraged in part by public opinion polls conducted over the weekend that showed little or no erosion in support for President Clinton despite the accusations of misconduct in the report to Congress by the independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr. Some people on Wall Street expressed relief that there were few surprises in the report, much of which had been leaked to the press before it was formally released.
In addition, indications that the International Monetary Fund was prepared to provide a financial package for Brazil, if necessary, was seen as positive.
So, too, was a speech President Clinton gave in New York yesterday highlighting the need to pursue policies that promote growth around the world. That view was reiterated later in the day by officials representing the Group of Seven industrial nations. Yesterday's comments follow a Sept. 4 speech by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve Board chairman, who said inflation was not a near-term concern for the Fed.
"Everyone is now acknowledging what the risks are, which is reassuring," said David Hale, chief economist for the Zurich Group. "And the good news for Clinton is that the Starr report had nothing new in it."
Greg Smith, chief investment strategist at Prudential Securities, said that in addition to hopes that pressing international economic problems might be addressed on a coordinated basis, investors were encouraged by announcements last week from the Intel Corporation and the General Electric Company that third-quarter results would be better than previously expected.
"Those were a couple of really important announcements," he said, "G.E. for leadership reasons and Intel because of its bellwether status in the high-tech group."
Jonathan Okesky, head of block trading at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said the tone of yesterday's session was much like that on Friday, when stocks had a broad advance.
"Our clients are definitely more relaxed" than they were a few weeks ago, he said.
"Not many are particularly bullish," he added, "but the market has not fallen off a cliff, and that provides some relief."
The prospect of what might be a coordinated cut in interest rates around the world, coupled with possible I.M.F. help for Brazil, helped to bolster the stocks of banks and financial companies, which have been battered in recent weeks.
Citicorp rose 5 yesterday, to 101. American Express was up 3 5/16, to 81 11/16. Merrill Lynch gained 1 5/8, to 57 5/8.
Drug stocks were also big gainers. Merck rose 4, to 132, and Eli Lilly gained 1 5/16, to 76 3/16, after doctors at the European Congress of Osteoporosis said that new drugs from the companies offered hope for treating the disease, which afflicts an estimated 200 million women.
And airline stocks were big gainers after the financial newspaper Barron's reported over the weekend that these stocks represented good value at current price levels.
AMR, the parent of American Airlines, gained 4 15/16, to 60 1/2; UAL, the holding company for United Airlines, rose 5 7/16, to 69 3/16, and Delta Air Lines rose 8 3/4, to 104 1/8.
Deere & Company and Walt Disney were among the losers for the session, as investors sold shares after the companies said their quarterly earnings would be lower than previously forecast. Deere dropped 1 3/4, to 3 17/16, and Disney lost 1 3/8, to 24 7/16.
The market's recent performance has encouraged some technicians to predict that the steep slide in prices may be over for a while.
"I think this is at least a short-term bottoming or stabilizing reaction, and could be the start of a rally that lasts for a month or so," said Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch.
Still, few are prepared to say that the political and financial problems facing policy makers here and around the globe have been solved.
"Markets around the world seem to have concluded the President will stay in office, and that we will have some leadership in the United States at an extraordinarily tricky time," said Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at the First Albany Corporation.
"But actions speak louder than words," he continued. "Congress has to approve the $17.9 billion requested for the I.M.F., not the $3.5 billion that was voted out of the House Appropriations Committee last week. The Fed has to cut interest rates. Japan has to reflate its economy and reform its banking system. In short, we need to see things get done. There is still a healthy level of skepticism."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since September 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); GNE (PAR) (60%); GEC (LSE) (60%); GE (SWX) (60%); GE (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (60%); EUROPEAN CONGRESS (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CONGRESS (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; RUSSELL 2000 STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (79%); BONDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); MISCONDUCT (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



408 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16
 
Clinton Offers a Strategy Against Economic Turmoil
President Clinton said the economic turmoil on three continents constituted "the biggest financial challenge facing the world in a half-century," and he proposed a strategy to quell the trouble before it reaches American shores. A1 

In Russia, Advice From the Past
A group of Soviet-era economists were summoned back from a decade of obscurity to offer their advice on how to rescue Russia's economy. A1
 
Revised View on Korea Missile
The United States now believes that North Korea tried, but failed, to launch a small satellite into orbit when it fired a multistage rocket in an arc over Japan two weeks ago. A6
 
Iraq May End U.N. Cooperation
The Iraqi Parliament, which diplomats often consider an advance-warning system on Iraq's policy, threatened to stop all remaining cooperation with a United Nations arms inspection system. A3
 
Iran Threatens Afghan Rulers
Iran issued its strongest threat yet that it might use force against Afghanistan over a conflict that began with the killing of a group of Iranian diplomats in Afghanistan. A3
 
New Ties for Rival Agencies
The F.B.I. director, Louis J. Freeh, said much of the progress in the investigation of the East Africa embassy bombings had resulted from unusually close cooperation between the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. A5

South African Official Freed
A South African Foreign Ministry official was released from a prison in Mozambique six months after he was arrested at a border town there; he was said to have been carrying thousands of dollars and trying to buy a cache of assault weapons. A10
 
Nominee Discloses Gift
Richard C. Holbrooke, whose nomination as chief American delegate to the United Nations has hit a snag, has amended his financial disclosure statements to reflect a gift from a former American Ambassador. A6
 
Uprising in Albania
Supporters of the former Albanian President seized Government buildings and demanded that the Government resign. The Government said its forces had launched a counterattack and recovered the buildings. A12
 
New Irish Assembly Convenes
The new Northern Ireland Assembly held its first working session, but debate focused on flags and party labels instead of dealing with how to enact the peace settlement. A7
 
Hijacking in Turkey
A Turkish Airlines plane headed from Ankara to Istanbul was hijacked to Trabzon, where the hijacker released all aboard and surrendered. He told the police he was protesting a ban on Islamic-style head coverings at universities that was imposed by officials to maintain the country's secular character. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A18-24
 
Clinton Turns to Clergy To Battle 'Temptations'
President Clinton has chosen two or three ministers to serve as personal spiritual advisers who will meet and pray with him weekly and help him resist what one of the ministers called "temptations that have conquered" Mr. Clinton in the past. A1
 
The two Democratic leaders of Congress sharply admonished the White House to stop trying to make legal justifications for President Clinton's misleading testimony about his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky. But buoyed by polls showing the nation still reluctant to embark on impeachment, they also called for quick decisions to resolve the crisis. A24
 
Mr. Clinton has no intention of saying that he perjured himself when he denied under oath that he had had a sexual relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky, his advisers say. A22
 
President Clinton, accompanied by his wife, Hillary, came to New York in pursuit of money and perhaps solace, and found some of both. A23
 
Dole's Loan Not Needed
Speaker Newt Gingrich said he did not need to borrow any money from former Senator Bob Dole after all to help pay a $300,000 penalty levied by the House last year for Mr. Gingrich's misleading of the ethics committee about his use of tax-exempt groups. A20
 
Tax Agency Disciplines Staff
The I.R.S. said it had reprimanded and reassigned staff members after audits showed that the agency had abused taxpayers by setting quotas for collecting money. A20
 
Charges of Spying for Cuba
Federal prosecutors in Miami charged 10 people with being members of a Cuban spy ring. A18
 
Forecast on Medical Spending
Total spending on health care in the United States will briskly climb over the next decade, doubling by 2007 and with private spending growing faster than public outlays, Federal officials said. A21
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Candidates' Final Effort To Win Party Nominations
Candidates closed out their primary campaigns. Democratic voters in New York are to select candidates today to run for governor, senator, lieutenant governor and attorney general, and both major parties have primaries in some local races. B1
 
Lost Jet's Valuable Cargo
The Swissair jet that crashed off the Nova Scotian coast on Sept. 2 carried millions in currency and jewelry, as well as a painting by Picasso, "Le Peintre," officials said. B1
 
Ideas for Governors Island
Twenty developers, civic groups and open-space advocates have submitted outline proposals to City Hall for the use of Governors Island. B3
 
Doubts on School Security Plan
A group of clergymen led by the Rev. Al Sharpton urged city school officials to reconsider a plan to have the Police Department take over security in public schools in light of police tactics at the Harlem youth rally and the suspension of an officer who rode a Labor Day parade float with racist depictions of blacks. B2
 
HEALTH F7
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-8
 
Heart Disease and the Pill
Women who take the new versions of the contraceptive pill do not have an increased risk of heart attack, researchers said. F8
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES B8-11
 
George C. Wallace
The former Governor of Alabama, who built his political career on segregation and spent a tormented retirement arguing that he was not a racist in his heart, was 79. B10
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
Stocks' Rally Continues
Stock prices posted strong, broadly based gains for the second consecutive session. The Dow rose 149.85 points, or 1.92 percent, to 7,945.35. C1
 
Merger Is Called Off
Tellabs called off its acquisition of Ciena after diminished financial prospects, scuttled sales and a steep drop in the share prices of both. C1
 
Auction of Master Artworks
The Reader's Digest Association will sell $100 million worth of Impressionist and 20th-century works at auction, art experts said. C1
 
Quark Backs Away From Adobe
Quark dropped its bid to acquire Adobe Systems, saying its rival had spurned its advances. C2
 
Wireless Phones for the Taliban
A phone company in New Jersey has a $240 million deal to build a wireless system for the Islamic fundamentalists who hold most of Afghanistan. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
FASHION B16
 
ARTS E1-10
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: The Wallace paradox; the home run chase, now a race; Democratic primary choices.
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
ChessF5
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E6
 
Weather A25

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ALBANIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (76%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (76%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (82%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TURKEY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ALBANIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); AFRICA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ANKARA, TURKEY (76%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); HIJACKING (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); COUPS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (70%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); ARRESTS (64%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); RELIGION (63%); AIRLINES (60%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



409 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON PRESENTS STRATEGY TO QUELL ECONOMIC THREAT

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

 BODY:
President Clinton declared yesterday that the economic turmoil on three continents constituted "the biggest financial challenge facing the world in a half-century." Without once discussing the calls for his censure or impeachment, he laid out for the first time a strategy to quell the trouble before it hits the American economy.
In a half-hour address to a friendly, carefully selected audience at the Council on Foreign Relations in Manhattan, Mr. Clinton said the turmoil, if allowed to fester, would pose a threat to American security and "put our own prosperity at risk." Excerpts, page A16. 
 Mr. Clinton's biggest initiative was a call for the world's leading economies to abandon their fear of inflation and instead "spur growth." He also urged the World Bank to double its aid in Asia, where countless people are suddenly unemployed or sinking into poverty, and he called for finance ministers from both large economies and the hard-hit emerging markets to meet within 30 days to develop strategies.
"For most of the last 30 years, the United States and the rest of the world has been preoccupied by inflation," he said. "But clearly the balance of risks has now shifted."
In a move coordinated by the Treasury Department, the finance ministers and central bank governors of the world's seven largest economies issued a parallel statement minutes after Mr. Clinton's speech, saying, "Inflation is low and falling in many parts of the world." Their statement was clearly intended to open the door to coordinated interest-rate cuts, which could spur economic activity around the globe.
It was the group's first coordinated effort to calm a situation that officials clearly fear is spinning out of control.
The Group of Seven industrialized nations also endorsed another initiative announced by Mr. Clinton: support for the use of an emergency fund in the International Monetary Fund, now down to its last $15 billion, to combat the economic contagion in Latin America. The funds would presumably be available to Brazil, the latest economy to fall victim to a flight of investors.
For months now, during visits to China and Russia, Mr. Clinton has discussed the crisis that began in Asia 14 months ago, but he has not offered major initiatives. His aides defended the timing of his response, saying that until the contagion spread to Russia and now to Brazil -- which has an economy far larger and more directly linked to the United States than Russia's -- it would have been hard to develop an international consensus for action.
It may also be difficult to develop much domestic enthusiasm in the midst of the most perilous political moment of Mr. Clinton's Presidency. Yesterday's speech was an attempt to return to his old campaign theme -- "It's the economy, stupid" -- with a global twist. The President appeared to be implying that while Congress was turning its attention to the report about the Monica S. Lewinsky matter, it was shirking its economic duties. He said the House of Representatives was endangering the welfare of "our workers, our businesses, our farmers" by refusing $18 billion in funds to the I.M.F.
But the House majority leader, Dick Armey, immediately shot back that "instead of repairing his credibility, the President today dug himself into a deeper hole" by supporting the I.M.F. The fund, he said, is "a destabilizing force that has helped cause the financial crises in Asia and elsewhere."
But the Republican head of the House Banking Committee, Jim Leach of Iowa, urged the passage of the I.M.F. financing and even stronger action by Mr. Clinton.
"It is a dangerous time, requiring firm, bipartisan American leadership," Mr. Leach said. "The honor, prosperity and security of the United States are at stake."
Agreeing with that view, a senior Administration official said after Mr. Clinton spoke that "there is a general truth that the magnitude of the deterioration" in recent weeks has been "much greater than anyone anticipated."
While Mr. Clinton spoke of help for nations in Asia with "crippling debt burdens," Treasury officials were tight-lipped about what kind of plans they had in mind, and said they were not ready to attempt the kind of huge restructuring of debt that the United States coordinated in Latin America more than a decade ago.
The speech in the quiet confines of the Council on Foreign Relations was the first major public appearance by Mr. Clinton since the publication of Kenneth S. Starr's explicit recounting of the President's affair with Ms. Lewinsky, and it was the unspoken subtext of the session.
Not surprisingly, it was a carefully controlled event. Those invited were members of the council, including network anchors, Wall Street financiers, columnists and editors, and a cross section of foreign policy professionals. Several members of the audience were reading accounts of the Lewinsky affair as they waited for Mr. Clinton to arrive.
Mr. Clinton's wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, sat beside him, and the President periodically placed his hand on her arm as they worked the room. Later she accompanied him through an afternoon of fund-raising events and an evening at the Broadway hit "The Lion King."
Mr. Clinton did not repeat last week's string of apologies for his affair, and when a network television reporter raised questions about the possibility of striking a deal for censure, instead of impeachment, in Congress, the reporter was hissed down by the audience.
Nonetheless, the greeting he received was somewhat cool. His speech was never interrupted by applause, though there was sustained applause for his Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, when he was introduced before the speech. Mr. Clinton laughed into his hand at the size of the ovation.
Some in Mr. Clinton's audience, which included some former officials in his Administration, said they feared that his speech might have come too late -- both because the economic contagion has grown so fierce, and because Mr. Clinton's own powers appear greatly diminished.
Briefing reporters after Mr. Clinton's speech, Mr. Rubin denied that the President was trying to put pressure on Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, to cut interest rates in the United States. "The answer to that is absolutely not," he said, arguing that Mr. Clinton would not interfere with the independence of the Federal Reserve.
What Mr. Clinton may have been doing, however, was jumping on -- and accelerating -- a train that Mr. Greenspan set rolling 10 days ago in San Francisco. In a speech there, Mr. Greenspan signaled that the Federal Reserve was now less worried about inflation, and increasingly worried about the risks of an economic slowdown. Mr. Clinton invoked Mr. Greenspan's earlier speech, declaring, as Mr. Greenspan did, that the United States cannot consider itself "an oasis" from global economic forces.
Until now, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Rubin have both shied away from characterizing the current economic turmoil as the worst since the end of World War II, partly for fear of jarring the markets. But in recent weeks, the damage has become so widespread that failure to acknowledge the scope of the problem looked increasingly strange.
Mr. Clinton compared the American role in stabilizing the world economy to what "the World War II generation did" 50 years ago, and said, "The United States is called upon once again to lead." But at the same time, he is clearly not yet prepared to announce the equivalent of a Marshall Plan for a global economy.
In his speech, for example, he made no mention of the possibility of dipping further into American funds to aid countries if the I.M.F.'s resources are depleted, or in restructuring the World Bank and the fund, created in 1946, to meet the challenges of a very different world economy. In private, however, Administration officials have begun discussing whether it would be politically feasible to once again use an emergency fund, under the Treasury's control, that was used to aid Mexico.
It is a difficult calculation. Such a step would undoubtedly raise an uproar in Congress, at a time when Mr. Clinton's political capital is in short supply.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore joined cast members of "The Lion King" on stage after a fund-raiser last night. Speaking was Peter Schneider, president of Walt Disney Theater Productions. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); In a half-hour address to the Council on Foreign Relations in Manhattan yesterday, President Clinton said that spreading economic turmoil presents "the biggest financial challenge facing the world in a half-century." (Reuters)(pg. A16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (57%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GROUP OF SEVEN; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; CREDIT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); TRENDS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



410 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 111 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
NORTHERN TELECOM PLANNING TO CUT 3,500 JOBS

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
The telecommunications giant Northern Telecom Ltd. said yesterday that it planned to cut about 3,500 jobs, or about 4 percent of its global work force. Nortel, the world's sixth-largest telecommunications equipment maker, which recently acquired Bay Networks, based in Santa Clara, Calif., for $9 billion, said the cuts would be made in every division. Nortel declined to say when the jobs would be eliminated. A spokesman, Peter Janecek, confirmed a report in The Ottawa Sun that the company was prepared to cut 3,500 jobs as it reshaped itself, adding more Internet-based products to its range of telecommunications products. It has 80,000 employees worldwide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NT (TSX) (93%); NT (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TELECOM LTD NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (91%); OTTAWA SUN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHERN TELECOM LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS TELECOMMUNICATIONS (96%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); 

PERSON: PETER JANECEK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



411 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Is Truth of Starr Report the Ultimate Value?;
A Better Presidency

 BODY:

To the Editor:
There is a silver lining in this nasty cloud over the Presidency (editorial, Sept. 14). Future Presidents now know that they will be held accountable for any and all actions performed as chief executive. 
 Political accountability to the people is one of our democratic bedrock philosophies. The country will be left with a more open executive branch befitting our traditional principles. Thank goodness this is about sex. With our low unemployment rate, high prosperity and peace, it is impossible to conceive of a better time for this further evolution of our democracy.
 
JOHN PETERSEN
Vero Beach, Fla., Sept. 14, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (87%); ETHICS (86%); EXECUTIVES (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (52%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PETERSEN, JOHN BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



412 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 15, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: 10 People Are Charged With Spying for Cuba

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 14

 BODY:
Eight men and two women were charged today with spying for the Cuban Government by trying, sometimes successfully, to infiltrate American military sites and Cuban exile organizations.
Officials with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Attorney's office here said national security was never compromised. But the officials described a sophisticated operation led by three men they believe to be members of the Cuban security forces. The suspects sought to report on the operation of American military installations, political and humanitarian activity by groups opposed to President Fidel Castro of Cuba and on American government and law enforcement, the officials said. 
 A criminal complaint charging the 10 said the group, operating since 1994, targeted Boca Chica Naval Air Station in Key West, MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa and the United States Southern Command, which oversees operations for the Caribbean and Latin America and recently moved its headquarters to Miami from Panama.
One defendant, Antonio Guerrero, was a civilian employee in the public works department of the Key West naval station whose real job, the complaint said, was to report to Cuba on any "unusual exercises, maneuvers and other activity related to combat readiness."
Another defendant, Rene Gonzalez, posed as an F.B.I. drug informer to "to give misinformation," said Thomas E. Scott, the United States Attorney in Miami. And two other defendants tried to get information and employment at the Southern Command, which Mr. Scott called "a priority objective" of the network.
The arrests marked the first offensive by Federal law-enforcement authorities against espionage by suspected Cuban agents, Federal officials said. They also come as Cuban exiles, smarting from the Federal prosecution of a group of exiles accused of plotting to kill Mr. Castro, are demanding that the United States target Cuban agents working in the United States.
F.B.I. officials said their investigation of Cuban intelligence gathering in South Florida began after Brothers to the Rescue, known for making mercy flights between Florida and Cuba searching for people in boats fleeing Cuba, lost two planes in an attack by Cuban fighter jets in 1996. But the officials declined to say whether the beginning of their effort was related to that incident. In a bizarre twist after the shootdown, a member of the group, Juan Pablo Roque, reappeared in Cuba to denounce Brothers to the Rescue and other Miami anti-Castro groups, and it became known then that he had been on the F.B.I. payroll since 1993 as an informer.
Luis Fernandez, a spokesman for the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, would not comment on the arrests.
The Cubans arrested today are also accused of penetrating exile groups to create animosity and discredit their leaders and of manipulating political figures and news organizations through anonymous or misidentified telephone calls and letters.
In Miami, where many exiles have long assumed that the city is crawling with Cuban spies and double agents, none of it came as a shock.
"If they're finally deciding to clean house, I salute them for it," said Rafael Penalver, a prominent exile lawyer who is on the board of a medical clinic that employed one of the defendants as a receptionist last year. "I hope it's a concerted effort to get to the root of the problem."
The complaint said the Cubans had code names, false identities and accents, escape plans and alibis for if the were arrested. They reported to Cuba through high frequency radio, officials said, and some traveled to and from Cuba.
Mr. Scott, the United States Attorney, and Hector M. Pesquera, the F.B.I. special agent in charge, refused to say how far the defendants got in their intelligence gathering or how threatening the information given to the Cuban Government was. The complaint said they provided Cuba with detailed descriptions of the construction and geography of the Southern Command headquarters. It also said Mr. Guerrero gave information on security areas and aircraft at Boca Chica and the addresses of naval officers.
Mr. Pesquera said the arrests had left Cuban intelligence gathering "in a complete state of disarray."
"This is a significant blow to the Cuban Government," he said.
But even before the arrests, the espionage network seemed to have run into hard times. The criminal complaint said that its officers had to routinely submit financial reports to Cuba detailing expenses for the operation and that at one point Cuba sent back word that it had to cut back. "Because of the economic state of our country," one communication read, "headquarters has been obligated to reduce the budget of all the comrades there."
The leaders of the network were identified as Manuel Viramontes, whom the criminal complaint describes as "a Cuban national and captain in the Cuban military" who has lived in the United States since 1992; Luis Medina and Ruben Campa. They and the other seven were charged with illegally acting as foreign agents, conspiring to deliver defense-related information to a foreign government and conspiring to defraud the United States. They could face sentences up to life imprisonment and fines of $750,000.
"It's not good news for anybody who wants to see a relaxation in U.S.-Cuba relations," said Max Castro, a Cuban affairs expert at the University of Miami's North-South Center. "Even though these are things that are typically done by all governments, whenever a country finds out it's been done in its territory, it's considered a hostile act."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CUBA; UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); ESPIONAGE (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); NAVIES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); LAWYERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998



413 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 5; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: EATING WELL;
The Nearer the Tree, the Sweeter the Fruit

BYLINE: By Marian Burros 

 BODY:
THERE is no better time than right now -- O.K., you could have started earlier in the summer -- to get into what nutritionists call the Five-a-Day habit: eating five servings of fruits and vegetables every day.
This is a habit that scientists suggest can help prevent a host of diseases, including heart disease, cancer and stroke. But it is a habit that very few people have cultivated because most of us prefer the taste of potato chips to fresh potatoes and fruit-flavored candy bars to fresh fruit. 
 That's stiff competition, but at this moment, when many fruits and vegetables are local and at their peak of flavor, they have a fighting chance. The recipes here suggest ways to bring out the best flavor of what's in the market -- green beans and potatoes, tomatoes and plums. You might also consider taking vegetable-hating children to pick-your-own farms and letting them help harvest what you want them to eat.
Locally grown fruits and vegetables are better for reasons beyond freshness. The varieties grown locally differ from what is grown thousands of miles away because they do not have to withstand a long arduous journey. They can be selected for flavor, rather than hardiness. A fruit can be picked at the moment of ripeness, when it has the perfect balance of sweetness and acidity; a vegetable can be picked while it is immature, that is, young and tender.
This makes perfect common sense but has been difficult to document because little scientific work has been done on the taste of fruits and vegetables picked at the right moment for eating, versus those picked to travel well for thousands of miles.
When I called the Produce for Better Health Foundation, which was created by the produce industry and others to promote the Five-a-Day plan, its president, Dr. Elizabeth Pivonka, sidestepped the question of which tastes better, local produce or produce that travels across the country or across the world. Instead, Dr. Pivonka said, "There is a lot of good fruit from Chile."
No doubt there is, and I'm sure the Chileans enjoy it at the peak of flavor. With an increasingly global economy, we will get more fruits and vegetables from the ends of the earth, but eating nectarines in February and asparagus in November is no way to learn how they should truly taste.
At least one scientist, Dr. Alley Watada of the Agricultural Research Service of the Agriculture Department in Beltsville, Md., has been studying the difference in taste and nutrition between locally grown tomatoes picked when perfectly ripe and those picked while ripening. Dr. Watada said, "Without question, the red ripe tomatoes had the most nutrients and tasted the best."
The taste was determined at the Horticulture Crops Quality Laboratory by a sensory panel, a group of people trained to recognize differences in taste. The ripest tomatoes also had about 5 percent more nutrients like vitamin C than those that were not fully ripe, he said.
Incidentally, Dr. Watada has done work with honeydews, too. And guess what he said? The locally grown honeydews now in the market taste better than the ones that come from Chile in the winter.
 
MEDITERRANEAN COUSCOUS SALAD
Time: 35 to 40 minutes
 
3 cups vegetable or chicken stock or broth
2 cups instant whole wheat couscous
3 tablespoons olive oil
6 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
4 teaspoons Dijon mustard
2 large cloves garlic, minced
 Grated zest of 2 oranges
1 or 2 jalapenos, trimmed, seeded and finely minced
2 dozen green or black medium French, Italian or Greek olives, pitted and finely chopped
 1/2 cup chopped capers
2 cups (about 10 ounces) julienned red bell peppers
1 pound zucchini, cut into julienne strips
 1/2 cup finely diced red onion
1 cup diced fennel
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste
2 medium-large ripe tomatoes.
 1. Bring stock to boil in covered pot. Add couscous, remove from heat and allow to sit for five minutes, until liquid has been absorbed.
 2. Whisk oil, vinegar, mustard and garlic in a serving bowl. Add orange zest, jalapenos, olives and capers, and mix well. Stir in the red pepper, zucchini, onion and fennel, and season with salt and pepper. Stir in the couscous.
 3. If not serving immediately, refrigerate without the tomatoes. No more than 30 minutes before serving, cut up the tomatoes and stir in.
 Yield: 6 to 8 servings.
 
 
GREEN BEANS AND POTATO SALAD
Time: 30 to 40 minutes
 
2 pounds tiny new potatoes, scrubbed but not peeled
1 pound young green beans or haricots verts (French green beans), washed and trimmed
3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
 1/4 cup white wine vinegar
2 tablespoons lemon juice
2 teaspoons Dijon mustard
4 teaspoons chopped fresh thyme
 1/2 cup finely chopped red onion
 Salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.
 1. Cook potatoes in water to cover for 10 to 20 minutes, depending on their size, until they are tender but firm; drain, and cut in quarters or halves, again depending on size. Meanwhile, steam the green beans 5 to 7 minutes, depending on their thickness; drain, and rinse under cold water to stop the cooking. Cut in quarters or thirds, depending on size.
2. In a large bowl, whisk together the oil, vinegar, lemon juice and mustard; stir in the thyme and onion. When potatoes are cooked, stir them into the dressing. If the salad is not to be served immediately, do not add the green beans: the acid of the dressing will turn them gray. Cover the beans well, cover the dressed potatoes and refrigerate separately.
3. To serve, let the vegetables return to room temperature. Stir the green beans into the potatoes and dressing, and season with salt and pepper.
Yield: 6 to 8 servings.
 
PLUM COMPOTE
Time: 20 to 30 minutes, plus chilling
 
 3/4 cup sugar
1 cup dry white wine
4 whole cloves
1 3-inch stick cinnamon
 Zest of 1/2 lemon
16 large, firm ripe red or black plums, stemmed.
1. Combine the sugar, wine, one cup of water, cloves, cinnamon and lemon zest in a saucepan large enough to hold the plums. Bring the ingredients to a boil, and cook, uncovered, for 5 minutes.
 2. Add plums, and bring mixture back to a boil; lower heat, and simmer plums for 10 to 20 minutes, depending on their ripeness, until they are tender but still hold their shape. Some plums will be ready before others; remove them as they are. Then when they are all cooked, return the plums to the syrup, remove from heat and let cool.
 3. Chill plums in the syrup. Serve over vanilla ice cream or frozen yogurt with some of the syrup, or serve with their syrup topped with whipped cream or creme fraiche.
 Yield: 6 servings.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa Haney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COUNCIL (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; DIET AND NUTRITION; RECIPES; FRUIT; VEGETABLES FRUITS & VEGETABLES (92%); NUTRITION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HORTICULTURE (77%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (77%); AGRONOMY (77%); CROP RESEARCH (77%); CANCER (76%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); STROKES (71%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (63%); 

PERSON: BURROS, MARIAN ALLEY WATADA (70%); ELIZABETH PIVONKA (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



414 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Boeing's Rating May Be Lowered

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Sept. 15

 BODY:
The Boeing Company's credit rating may be lowered by Moody's Investors Service as production problems trouble the world's largest aircraft maker and Asia's economic crisis increases the risk that sales there will slow.
Moody's said today that it might lower the rating on about $6.8 billion of debt, a move that could raise the company's borrowing costs. The New York-based credit rating agency cited Boeing's "continuing poor operating performance" and concern about the "timing and the degree of resolution" of the production delays in its commercial aircraft business. 
 Boeing is now producing planes more consistently after struggling last year with a series of bottlenecks costing the company $3 billion in pretax charges since 1997 and helping create the Seattle-based jet maker's first annual loss in five decades.
Moody's placed Boeing's "Aa3" senior debt rating under review, as well as the "A3" senior debt rating for the Boeing Capital Corporation. Shares of Boeing fell 12.5 cents, to $34.25.
Representatives at Boeing were not immediately available for comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (98%); BAB (BRU) (98%); BA (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (98%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (57%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO; MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE BOEING CO (98%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (91%); BOEING CAPITAL CORP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOEING CO; MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (57%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SALES; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; PRODUCTION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS AIRCRAFT MFG (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); AIRLINES (72%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



415 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Singapore Airlines and Delta take different approaches to premium service for passengers.

BYLINE: By Jane L. Levere 

 BODY:
SINGAPORE AIRLINES and Delta Air Lines announced two differing strategies to upgrade their long-haul in-flight service for business travelers.
Singapore Airlines, which wins frequent plaudits for its service, is investing about $300 million to upgrade its first- , business- and economy-class offerings. Delta, meanwhile, is totally eliminating its first-class service and upgrading its business-class service on trans-Atlantic, trans-Pacific and United States-Brazil routes. 
 Singapore Airlines' new services are being phased in over the next 18 months on its long-haul fleet of 37 Boeing 747-400's. The new first class will feature airport check-in at a special lounge and a redesigned airplane cabin with 12 so-called mini-suites equipped with seat-beds, power outlets for computers, retractable desks and 14-inch video monitors; previously there were 16 seats in first class. Passengers in this cabin will be able to dine when they wish.
Singapore Airlines' new business-class service will have seats that the airline says are based on a first-class seat frame; the cabin will have 58 seats, down from 65. Seats will also have privacy dividers and power outlets. The new business-class food service will also be available whenever passengers wish.
Singapore Airlines' economy-class passengers will have upgraded seats and will be offered champagne throughout flights.
Delta's new business class, which will be introduced next spring, will feature new seats, upgraded wine and food, and a modern entertainment system. Delta is investing $125 million in its new business-class cabins, which will be offered on its MD-11 and Boeing 767-ER and 777 aircraft.
Dr. Choong Kong Cheong, deputy chairman and chief executive officer of Singapore Airlines, said the carrier had opted to upgrade all three of its in-flight cabins because "Singapore's passengers always expect the best from us." He added, "We're determined to stay ahead of the competition."
He also said Singapore Airlines had been planning these changes for two years and that it would proceed with them, despite the recent crisis in the Asian economy. "We're a global airline," he said. "The Asian economy has affected Asian airlines quite badly, but other airlines are in the pink of health. We're continuing to upgrade our product and service because we can't afford to be left behind."
Delta officials said they had chosen to entirely eliminate international first-class service because the demand for business class far exceeded that for first class. According to data released by the carrier, in 1997 the intercontinental business-class market grew four times faster than that for first class; it also said there were seven times the number of passengers in the industry's business-class market than in the first-class market.
Pointing out that on many nonstop trans-Atlantic routes Delta has no competitors, Stephan Egli, vice president of Delta's Atlantic and Pacific business unit, predicted that travelers on these routes who have to choose between Delta's business-class service and one-stop, first-class service on another carrier might well pick Delta for its greater convenience.
Sam Buttrick, aviation analyst for Paine Webber, said, "The paying first-class customer is limited to a relatively narrow number of markets, which is why we see different carriers coming out at different ends of the spectrum."
 
Fly the Crowded Skies
The number of passengers on United States air carriers is expected to jump by 50 percent in the next nine years, according to the Federation of Travel Clubs.
Citing projections from the Federal Aviation Administration, Mark Brown, executive vice president of the travel club group, told Reuters that airline ridership would reach 900 million by 2007.
According to the American Automobile Association, there were 599 million passengers in 1997, a 34 percent increase from a decade earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); C6L (SGX) (90%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); 

COUNTRY: SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: SINGAPORE AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES INC; FEDERATION OF TRAVEL CLUBS DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (90%); BOEING CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SINGAPORE AIRLINES; DELTA AIR LINES INC; FEDERATION OF TRAVEL CLUBS

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); AIRPORTS (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



416 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Argentina Seeks $8 Billion In Emergency Loan Reserves

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Sept. 15

 BODY:
In an attempt to ease any future economic tremors from neighboring Brazil, Argentina is negotiating loan packages totaling more than $8 billion with various international lenders to insure Government financing in case of a severe economic slowdown next year.
Publicly, Government officials are still painting a rosy picture of the economy, making every effort to differentiate Argentina from other emerging market countries. The proposed 1999 budget sent to Congress this week projects a 2 percent increase in spending based on increased tax receipts generated by a 4.8 percent annual growth rate, more than double what most Wall Street economists expect. 
 But privately, Economy Ministry officials are expressing concern that Argentina is vulnerable to any crisis in Brazil over the next several months, since 30 percent of Argentina's exports are purchased by Brazilians. While they express hope that Brazil can avoid a devaluation, Government economists say they expect the Brazilian economy to slow further in the coming months, with officials in Brasilia, the capital, keeping interest rates high, raising taxes and lowering expenditures.
"We are not expecting a devaluation in Brazil," said Deputy Economy Minister Pablo Guidotti. But he added, "We continue analyzing, and if necessary, we can revise our projections."
Hoping to anticipate any severe recession in Brazil, Mr. Guidotti and other officials are putting the final touches on loan packages with the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund and Eximbank of Japan that could total as much as $8.5 billion. These lines of credit are expected to be signed in the next two weeks, Government officials said, noting that they would complement commercial borrowing and were intended to reassure foreign investors.
Local economists noted that the Government had not drawn from a $2.8 billion I.M.F. credit line, nor issued high interest rate bonds to cover expenses. Neither action is necessary, they said, because the current budget deficit is a modest 1 percent of output.
David Malpass, chief international economist for Bear Stearns, noted that Argentina already had contingency lines of credit with several international investment banks in case of a future emergency. But he said officials were seeking the added loan packages because "they didn't want to be perceived as inactive while Brazil was being attacked." Referring to the policy of pegging the Argentine peso to the dollar at a 1-to-1 rate, he added, "Argentina has been holding a pretty strong hand provided by convertibility."
Martin Redrado, a former senior aide to President Carlos Saul Menem, said the Government was negotiating the loan packages "to insure that whatever happens to Brazil, Argentina will have the muscle and the money to weather the crisis."
Recent statements by President Clinton and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin stressing the importance of Brazil and promising to stand by the economies of the region have bolstered confidence in Argentina, at least for the moment.
Share prices on the Buenos Aires stock exchange, which had dropped by 50 percent this year as of last week, rallied 8.90 percent today. The benchmark Merval index has gone up better than 20 percent over the last three trading sessions.
In Brazil, the Bovespa stock index soared 18.68 percent today, reflecting easing concerns on Wall Street that Brazil would soon devalue.
"This is a Rubin rally because he expressed U.S. interest in Brazil's financial stability," Mr. Malpass of Bear Stearns said. "The immediate threat of a Brazilian devaluation has been lifted."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IDB (ASX) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS921130 PUBLIC FINANCE ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (99%); BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA; BRAZIL; ARGENTINA (99%); BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); DEVALUATION (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); RECESSION (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TRENDS (76%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); BONDS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); CURRENCIES (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD BILL CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



417 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries Decline Again as World Stock Markets Stabilize

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
United States bonds fell for the second time in three days yesterday as stock markets stabilized around the world, reducing demand for Treasury securities with long-term yields near record lows.
Bonds are "playing off the equity markets," said Todd Barre, who helps manage $10 billion of bonds at Harris Bank in Chicago. Treasuries have moved inversely to stocks in recent weeks, rallying when tumbling stocks spurred a rush into safer investments, and falling when stocks climbed. 
 The price of the 30-year bond fell 14/32, to 103 22/32, pushing its yield up 3 basis points, to 5.25 percent. Prices and yields move in opposite directions.
Bellwether 30-year bond yields dropped about half a percentage point in the last two months, as stocks slumped on concern that slowing economies will hurt corporate profits. Yields touched 5.13 percent last week, the lowest since the Government began regular sales of the securities in 1977.
"A lot of this drop in yields has been flight to quality," said Edgar Peters, who helps oversee $17 billion as chief investment strategist at Panagora Asset Management Inc. in Boston. "If the feeling is there's no need to be worried, people would start to sell their bonds."
The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin will testify today to the House Banking Committee about global economic turmoil.
Fed policy makers next meet to set interest rate policy on Sept. 29.
Results of the Treasury's 52-week bill auction yesterday:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)
 
Average Price . . . 95.445
Discounted Rate . . . 5.05%
Coupon Yield . . . 4.730
High Price . . . 95.470
Discounted Rate . . . 4.505
Coupon Yield . . . 4.73%
Low Price . . . 95.440
Discounted Rate . . . 4.48%
Coupon Yield . . . 4.703
Accepted at low price . . . 78%
Total applied for . . . $35,815,111
Accepted . . . $15,424,871
Noncompetitive . . . $873,041
 
The one-year bills mature Sept. 16, 1999. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); PANAGORA ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (68%); HOUSE BANKING COMMITTEE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT HOUSE BANKING COMMITTEE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



418 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: German Socialists Turn From Slogans to Jingles

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Until recently, Detmar Karpinski's biggest accomplishment was advertising Lucky Strike cigarettes. Today, he is producing one of the slickest and most American-style political advertising campaigns that Germany has ever seen.
Hired by the Social Democratic Party and its candidate for Chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, Mr. Karpinski as created a media campaign that is an artful dance between cozy images of a happy Germany and edgy criticism of Chancellor Helmut Kohl. 
 A commercial playing in movie theaters shows four astronauts in a Star Trek setting about to be "beamed" to another planet. When the beaming is over, one astronaut is left behind and he turns out to be a corpulent and befuddled Mr. Kohl. The message: the 68-year-old chancellor is "not ready for the future."
In a blitz on television, on billboards and in glossy magazines, Social Democratic ads combine images of gauzy warmth with a sneaky punchline. Billboard posters, aimed a provoking fears about cuts in health care, show a blond boy whose smile reveals a missing tooth. "We don't want to tell the difference between rich and poor just through a smile," reads the biting caption. A magazine ad centers on an aging, framed photograph of beautiful children and the slogan: "You should have more in your retirement than memories."
These and a barrage of other ads mark a major departure from the dull and didactic fare that have usually graced German political campaigns. They are also a far cry from the old-school ads for Mr. Kohl, whose most ubiquitous campaign poster features his picture and the slogan "World Class for Germany."
Mr. Schroder and his campaign managers have adopted techniques used by Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton and Tony Blair. They have focused relentlessly on feelings rather than facts. They have carefully honed their themes based on market research. And they began mapping their strategy more than 18 months ago, before Mr. Schroder even became the party's official candidate in the election, which is set for Sept. 27.
"The S.P.D. had an image that was somewhat old-fashioned and needed to be modernized," said Mr. Karpinsky, creative director for the Hamburg-based advertising agency KNSK-BBDO, referring to the Social Democrats. "One had the impression that they didn't really want to win an election, that they just wanted to be in the opposition."
Advertising plays a much smaller role in Germany than in the United States. The Social Democrats say they are spending about $23.5 million on paid advertising, though Mr. Kohl's party, the Christian Democrats, insist that the spending is much greater. Their own spending, they say, is about $30 million.
But the Social Democrats say they have systematically used advertising, sometimes to illustrate a new stylishness. Inasmuch as the advertising is clever and fast-paced, it appeals to younger and more video-savvy voters who have grown up watching MTV. Indeed, party officials used the first wave of campaign posters for the sole purpose of showing them to journalists.
Negative political advertising, prominent in American campaigns, has been almost non-existent here. Though Germany's high unemployment rate under Mr. Kohl is the Social Democrats' most important theme, party officials say that attack ads would have alarmed voters.
Instead, Mr. Karpinsky has produced a campaign loaded with happy images and with a critical message at the end. One television ad describes the things people strive for and shows families and children, hikers and bicyclists, playgrounds and modern factories. The screen then abruptly goes black, and a message reads: "But 4 million unemployed Germans can't."
"Negative advertising can work, but it would be wrong in this country," said Mr. Karpinski. "We didn't want to frighten people with attack ads. We wanted to make them comfortable with the party, so the images you see are always positive an optimistic."
Indeed, Mr. Kohl and the Christian Democrats briefly tried negative advertising but quickly retreated. Known as the "red-handed" campaign, Christian Democratic billboards warned darkly that the Social Democrats might join forces with the successor to East Germany's old Communist party, the Party of Democratic Socialism. Billboards showed two red hands shaking, with the slogan "Watch out, Germany!"
But Christian Democrat supporters say the ads repelled many people because they seemed overly alarmist. Though Mr. Kohl continues to warn about alliances with the Communists, the red-handed posters have all but disappeared.
The Social Democratic officials say they scrupulously pruned their messages based on their research with focus groups and polling. With unemployment at near-record levels, joblessness inevitably became the top issue. But other once-popular issues have been ignored. "It wasn't any surprise that unemployment was in first place," said Mr. Karpinski. "But what did surprise us was that the environment had slipped from 5th place to 18th place. That was a big change, and the result is that the environment is not a part of the advertising."
The last wave of advertising is most focused on Mr. Schroder himself. A 90-second television ad depicts the candidate alone on a windswept beach, mulling over his vision as the camera pans over an endless expanse of water -- an image meant to convey vision and new horizons. As the camera zooms in on Mr. Schroder's face, viewers hear his voice speak passionately about the need for vision and his desire to make Germany better and stronger.
The most prominent print ads now feature black-and-white pictures of Mr. Schroder that are meant to look as if they came from newspapers and depict a statesman with the weight of the world on his shoulders.
"We knew that our first job was to convince people that we really are ready to govern,' said Michael Donnemeyer, a spokesman for Mr. Schroder's campaign. "Now we are focusing on the candidate himself, because we know that our most important weapon is Schroder himself."
Mr. Kohl and the Christian Democrats continue to wage a much more stodgy campaign. The newest billboards show nothing more than the colors of the German flag and the slogan: "Security Instead of Risk."
Mr. Kohl's television ads are only slightly more lively. One shows Frankfurt's mayor, Petra Roth, expounding on the strengths of Germany and Mr. Kohl's unmatchable experience in world affairs. Another shows Mr. Kohl in a montage with other world leaders, including President Clinton. The message is that Mr. Kohl is a respected world leader who can guarantee stability.
Campaign officials admit that their advertising lacks sizzle, but insist that is part of their message as well. "People want a Chancellor and not an actor," remarked Andreas Fritzenkotter, Mr. Kohl's top media adviser, in a German newspaper interview. "Schroder is waging a campaign as an advertising man, not as a politician who speaks and behaves from conviction."

GRAPHIC: Photos: With a national election campaign in full swing, political advertising is ubiquitous in Germany. A Christian Democratic poster, left, urged Germans to vote for an upswing, while a Social Democratic billboard, center, stressed health care, (Photographs by Frank Ossenbrink) and a Social Democratic television spot, right, used a "Star Trek" theme to suggest that Chancellor Helmut Kohl is too old-fashioned for the space age. (Reuters for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); THEATER (56%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; SCHRODER, GERHARD; KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR) GERHARD SCHRODER (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



419 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: F.C.C. Responds to Its Digital-TV Critics

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
The chairman of the Federal Communications Commission today lashed back at critics in the telecommunications industry who have blamed his agency for the problems plaguing the introduction of digital-television services, scheduled to begin in just six weeks.
Executives from the television programming and manufacturing industries have faulted the commission for not setting clear rules and standards for digital broadcasts and related equipment. In many cases, the commission chose instead to let industry set the standards itself. That has led to interindustry disagreements and crippling incompatibilities in some areas. 
 For example, the first high-definition sets now on sale cannot receive HDTV programming from cable systems because the standards for the cable that connects the set to the cable box have not been completed -- an unresolved interindustry detail for which some set makers blame the F.C.C.
But in a speech to a group of broadcasters today, William E. Kennard, the F.C.C. chairman, called the criticisms self-serving efforts to "goad the Government by playing the blame game."
Most businesses ask his agency for help, Mr. Kennard said, "only if they think Government will give them a regulatory advantage." If not, he added, "They'll try to keep Government out."
The Government should get involved, Mr. Kennard added, only "when arguments are distorted by the prism of self-interest."
Separately, the Sony Corporation plans to announce on Wednesday that unlike other television manufacturers it will sell a high-definition television set that is a conventional-style table-top model with a picture tube, beginning in November. Every other manufacturer plans to sell large rear-projection sets, some as big as a compact automobile.
More than 90 percent of the TV's sold today are conventional models with a picture tube, known as "direct view" sets. That leaves many industry analysts asking how the transition to digital television can succeed, as long as manufacturers offer digital sets in a style that is not popular with most buyers.
James Palumbo, a Sony vice president, said his company chose direct-view because such sets offered the highest picture quality, and that he believed Sony would gain a competitive advantage. "We think the market will initially have a bigger audience for direct-view sets," he said.
Other manufacturers are not producing direct-view sets now because they are more complicated to manufacture and still cannot display an HDTV image at its highest level of resolution. The Sony executives acknowledged that without saying what level of resolution their HDTV would offer. "It's misleading to do that," said James Bonan, another Sony vice president.
But in one respect, Sony's strategy is similar to the other companies'. They are all entering the high-definition television market with high-end products loaded with options and added features -- and extraordinarily high price tags. With rare exceptions, the first high-definition television sets will sell for at least $8,000. Sony's 34-inch direct-view set will be priced at $9,000.
Mr. Kennard, in his speech to the International Television and Radio Society in New York today, said no one should be concerned with the high initial prices. "If you control for inflation," he said, "the first color sets in 1955 cost about $4,500." (Actually, RCA put the first color television on the market in 1953, and it cost $1,000 -- just over $6,000 in today's dollars.)
Mr. Kennard added, "The entire history of the introduction and pricing of consumer-electronics equipment tells us that soon enough, digital-television receivers will be increasingly affordable."
"But let's not kid ourselves," he continued. "The digital-television rollout will be complicated." He urged patience, "for the transition to digital TV is inevitable."
Mr. Palumbo said Sony management held a similar view. "This is just the beginning," he said, "trial and error." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (83%); SNE (NYSE) (83%); 6758 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION SONY CORP (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; DIGITAL AND HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION DIGITAL TELEVISION (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: BRINKLEY, JOEL; KENNARD, WILLIAM E (CHMN) WILLIAM E KENNARD (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



420 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Preventing World Recession

 BODY:
A quarter of a century ago when Washington was mired in scandal, the greatest challenge to global prosperity since the Great Depression presented itself in the form of an Arab oil embargo that promptly led to spiraling inflation, recession in the Western world and, within a few years, a third-world debt crisis that stifled development in Latin America for a generation. The largest economies were unable to respond to those challenges in a timely manner, and the world suffered.
Now, with Washington immersed in another scandal, another major threat to world prosperity has arisen from the collapse in Asia and plunging commodity prices that endanger much of the past decade's progress in developing countries. There is reason to hope the response this time will be better. The Group of Seven countries say they will cooperate in stimulating world growth. Those actions should include a coordinated lowering of interest rates by central banks in Europe and America. 
 The current crisis has brought on a widespread shift in investor psychology. Those who invested in developing countries with too little regard for risk now can see only risk as they flee. That capital flight has forced developing countries to raise interest rates to protect their currencies, thus putting a further drag on economies already in recession. Many such countries depend on the export of commodities, whose prices have plunged as world growth has slowed. Many companies, particularly in Asia, are unable to meet their dollar-denominated debt obligations because their home currencies have collapsed.
President Clinton, in an important economic address in New York this week, was right to say the world must look for ways to ameliorate those problems by spurring growth in the industrial world, particularly in Japan, whose own recession could not be occurring at a worse time. He was also right that ways need to be found to relieve some of the debts facing Asian countries.
None of that will be easy. In retrospect, the International Monetary Fund probably pushed for policies that were too restrictive when the Asian crisis erupted a year ago. But its aid is needed more than ever in the current situation, as countries deal with panicky investors.
It is a measure of the sad state of the Clinton Presidency that the President's effort to address the world's economic problems was viewed by many through a Monica prism, with commentators wondering whether Mr. Clinton was trying to change the subject. The real question here is whether the American Government can deal effectively with major problems at the same time Congress considers the Starr report. Congress should immediately provide the $18 billion needed by the I.M.F., and its leaders should make clear that they are open to further actions that may be needed to avert a world recession.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDITORIALS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); INFLATION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (75%); TRENDS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (67%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



421 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Denver Calls Old Airport Ground Zero for Growth

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: DENVER, Sept. 15

 BODY:
The luggage carousels and ticket counters have been sold to Peru and shipped to airports in the Andes.
Wrecking crews have begun the months-long job of tearing down the main terminal, with its sign that greeted generations of American skiers: "Welcome to Denver, Colorado. One Mile High." And the runways have been painted with large yellow crosses to ward off pilots who may not have heard that Stapleton International Airport closed in February 1995. 
 But three and one half years after Denver's $5 billion new airport drew the nation's attention, the old airport is grabbing back the spotlight. A development project one third the size of Manhattan is taking shape there, only 10 minutes east of downtown Denver.
"Every significant home builder in the state of Colorado has approached us about doing something at Stapleton," said Dick Anderson, president of the Stapleton Development Corporation, the nonprofit company chartered by the city of Denver to develop the old airport site.
Referring to projects that recycle large swaths of industrial areas in cities, Mr. Anderson said: "These 'in fills' are a better way to go than urban sprawl."
The interest in seven square miles of dirt newly opened to development reflects Denver's continuing economic boom and mounting concern over the metropolitan area's sprawl.
Last week, the Sierra Club issued a report on urban sprawl that ranked the growth of metropolitan Denver second only to metropolitan Kansas City in cities with populations over one million. From 1990 to 1996, the Denver metropolitan area increased by two-thirds, ballooning toward its current size of 535 square miles.
Excess growth routinely tops lists of concerns in public opinion polls here. Last year, the Denver Regional Council of Governments approved a blueprint to confine growth to 730 square miles by 2020. But the Sierra Club noted that this boundary was largely voluntary, and it forecast that by 2020 the metropolitan area could expand to 1,150 square miles.
The impact of growth has been felt in recent months -- in rolling electricity brownouts during a heat wave, wells running dry in some suburbs, 10-digit local telephone numbers, classrooms improvised from trailers, and, as the speed of highway traffic slows, renewed debate over building a passenger rail system through the city and into the Rocky Mountains.
But most of the growth has occurred in three southern suburban counties -- Douglas, Elbert and Park -- that have ranked among the top five fastest-growing counties in the nation.
Opponents of sprawl are hailing both the Stapleton project, which will bring 10,000 new homes to the area, and a 3,200-home project at the former Lowry Air Force Base because they are close to the city center.
"They put people much more closer in, where there already are people, utilities and infrastructure," said Kirk Cunningham, a Colorado Sierra Club member who worked on the sprawl report.
According to blueprints, Stapleton will provide homes for 25,000 people, becoming the region's second-largest development, after Highlands Ranch, a southern suburb. Construction on the first houses is to begin next spring, four years after the last jet took off.
Some Denverites criticize the pace of conversion as slow. But Development Corporation officials say the Federal Aviation Administration and Denver had little experience in dismantling and redeveloping a big city airport.
At first, Denver sought buyers, or at least tenants, for the terminal and concourses. One, Concourse E, was built at a cost of $58 million, but was used for only eight years. Planners soon discovered that there are few alternative uses for airport terminals. The decision to tear down the concourses came after a July 1997 hail storm drilled about 4,000 holes in the roofs of the old terminal and concourses, causing severe water damage.
The 12-story control tower will be retained as a monument to the site's history, probably with an observation deck for tourists.
Since 1990, the average price of a home in the Denver area has jumped by about 50 percent, to $200,000 today. Denver's Mayor, Wellington E. Webb, has vowed that Stapleton, which is city property, will include low- and moderate-income housing, but that collides with a mandate by the Federal Aviation Administration, which was a source of many grants for improvements at Stapleton, to sell airport land at fair market value. Dollars earned from Stapleton land sales defray the construction cost of its successor, Denver International Airport.
Planners hope to be able to offer town houses here for as little as $100,000.
With Interstate 70 and a rail line cutting through the old airport property, Stapleton is also to become a commercial and industrial center, providing 30,000 jobs. Already, United Airlines, part of the UAL Corporation, has invested $140 million in an expanded pilot training center on 400 acres, and the Catellus Development Corporation, a commercial real estate company, is building the Stapleton Business Center, 3.6 million square feet of offices and industrial space. Under a new master plan, 17 million square feet of commercial space is to be created around the old airport.
Denver's convention and tourism business is so strong that the wall of hotels facing the old airport terminal survived its closing. Companies moving to the site are served by the second-largest concentration of hotel rooms outside downtown.
In addition, one-third of the old airport area, 1,700 acres, is being preserved as open space: a nature area, an 18-hole golf course and a bicycle path along the course of Sand Creek.
The northern corner of this open area will link with the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge, a vast preserve 20 times the size of Central Park in New York that is being created on the site of a former chemical munitions factory.
In a north-south arc, the wildlife refuge, Stapleton and Lowry seem to channel Denver's future growth to the east. As the Rockies wall off growth to the west, the city is spreading east, drawn in part by the new airport. Denver International Airport, once lampooned as a white elephant, has now attracted 8 major office and industrial projects and 19 hotel projects. This summer, officials inaugurated major eastern links on a beltway that eventually is to ring metropolitan Denver.
Indeed, some predict that the development of Stapleton and Lowry will barely slow Denver's eastern sprawl, as tract-home subdivisions continue to march through wheat fields.
"Sprawl is an upper-class, elitist word that closes out the aspirations of lower-income and minority Americans for a safer and more spacious place to live and raise their kids," said John Andrews, board chairman of the Independence Institute, a libertarian think tank here. "People say, 'Don't Los Angelize Denver.' They are howling at the moon."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An old hangar at Stapleton International Airport in Denver crumpled under the methodical assault of a demolition crew. When its work is finished, seven square miles of land near downtown Denver will be open to residential and commercial development in a city undergoing explosive growth. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PERU (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (98%); ANDES (88%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: STAPLETON DEVELOPMENT CORP MILE HIGH BEVERAGE (58%); SIERRA CLUB (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: STAPLETON DEVELOPMENT CORP SIERRA CLUB (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER (COLO); UNITED STATES (98%); PERU (92%); COLORADO, USA (98%); ANDES (88%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REAL ESTATE; STAPLETON INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (DENVER); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL AIRPORTS (95%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (88%); SUBURBS (87%); RANKINGS (86%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SKIING (72%); MOUNTAINS (72%); AIR FORCES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%); COUNTIES (68%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (66%); WEATHER (62%); POWER FAILURES (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; ANDERSON, DICK BRADBURY H ANDERSON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



422 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 23; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
As Energy Council Gathers, Oil Industry Seeks Answers

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
This week, Houston is throwing a party for more than 30 oil ministers and 8,000 other officials and executives from at least 82 countries. To make sure everyone attending the World Energy Council Congress feels sufficiently welcome, the city greeted them on Saturday night with a light show featuring 2 million watts of spotlights, 14 powerful lasers and 12 tons of explosives, enough to make car alarms wail all over downtown. Coming Thursday is what is being billed as the state's largest sit-down dinner ever, requiring a banquet hall also known as the Astrodome.
But not even the local brand of relentless hospitality can make up for oil prices that nobody here wants to celebrate. So this week's gathering of the most powerful figures in world energy has become only a brief break from a new and unexpected round of cutbacks and even, in some cases, layoffs. 
 Just a year ago, executives griped about the bonuses they had to pay to hire and keep geophysicists. Now they wonder how to keep those geophysicists busy.
"Have you found anybody who is not cutting back?" asked Robert Mosbacher, the former Secretary of Commerce. He recounted how the Houston company that bears his name had delayed planned drilling in Mississippi, Texas, Louisiana and several foreign nations.
Compared, of course, with the industry's roller coaster ride through the 1970's and 1980's, the 1990's might seem more like swan boats. Still, companies that boasted last year of having the slimmed-down staffs and the new oil-finding technologies to weather low oil prices are now saying that by "low" they never meant the current $14 a barrel.
"The industry is suffering from reverse sticker shock," said Daniel Yergin, the president of Cambridge Energy Research Associates and one of the meeting's featured speakers.
Scott Sheffield, the chief executive of Pioneer Natural Resources, for example, gathered his employees this afternoon to urge them to cut every expense.
Pioneer completed about $5 billion in acquisitions last year, becoming one of the nation's largest independent oil companies. It also contracted for drilling services at top dollar. This year, to help pay down $2 billion in assumed debt, it has had to dispose of about 10 percent of its properties. Exploration and production outlays have been cut to $450 million from $600 million this year and will drop to $300 million next year.
"We were flying high until oil prices cratered," said Marsha D. Sheffield, the company's public relations chief, before leaving to help her husband with his cost-cutting appeal.
The major oil companies -- with interests in refineries, gas stations and petrochemical plants -- are more diversified and financially stronger, but not immune. Texaco has trimmed its $4.6 billion exploration and production budget by about 10 percent. Peter I. Bijur, the company's chief executive, and his hovering public relations representatives stressed in interviews here that the operative word was "deferred," not canceled or cut.
The oilfield services companies, however, are past the point of maintaining the appearance of normalcy. Nabors Industries, the world's largest land driller, has cut nearly 3,000 workers across the oil patch from a peak of 13,000 last fall. A year ago, Nabors had to ask customers wanting rigs and crews how long they could wait. Now the only question is, "How soon can we start?"
Among other oilfield service companies, EVI Weatherford laid off 1,300 of its more than 11,000 employees this year, and Schlumberger laid off 700 of its 9,200 domestic oilfield service employees through July.
Houston, and Texas more generally, where technology has passed energy as the state's largest employer, are unlikely to feel nearly the pain of the 1980's. Then, entire Houston office towers and subdivisions were left vacant as developers and homeowners walked away from their properties and their payments.
Last year, through July, oil and gas production gave the Houston region 3,800 new jobs. Through July this year, the industry lost 100 jobs. Over all, the continuing expansion in retailing and construction had allowed the area to keep adding jobs at a strong pace. But Robert W. Gilmer, a Federal Reserve economist based in Houston, said those sectors were coasting on the energy industry's past strength; he predicted a slowdown for the rest of the year. Without a stronger energy business, he said, "We can't survive for long by taking in each other's laundry."
Houston's bane is the nation's boon, however, as low energy prices help sustain strong economic growth with scant inflation. But oil exporting nations like Russia and Mexico are being pinched.
The World Energy Council, representing the interests of energy producers across several industries, gathers in a different spot every three years. This year's formal sessions are concentrating on technology -- both to improve efficiency, and reduce pollution. Breakfasts, lunches, receptions and dinners, meanwhile, often combine deal-making and international diplomacy, all the more so now that British Petroleum had agreed to buy Amoco.
At a Monday breakfast, drilling company executives vied for the attention of the guest of honor, Luis Giusti, chief executive of Petroleos de Venezuela S.A., the Venezuelan national oil company. Even Venezuela, having displaced Saudi Arabia as the United States' largest foreign source of oil, has cut its capital budget, mostly for exploration and production, to $4 billion from $6 billion. "I think the $18 to $20 oil era is going to be replaced by the $14 to $16 era," Mr. Giusti said in an interview.
The experts attribute low oil prices to feuds among exporters and the near-evaporation of Asian demand. American energy companies at least have the consolation of steady natural gas prices. But with huge volumes in storage, these companies are praying as fervently as ski resort operators for a frigid winter. Outside investors like Thomas O. Hicks and Richard Rainwater are raising their stakes, with Mr. Rainwater even buying oil futures.
So far, Houston's oilmen -- and, in the 1990's, oilwomen -- have remained optimistic enough to avoid serious cutbacks on life's necessities. But, chastened perhaps by past reversals, they have far fewer necessities than in the 1970's.
Back then, recalled Stephen Zimmerman, owner of La Colombe d'Or, a restaurant and hotel installed in an oil baron's mansion, oilmen would begin with Dom Perignon, move on to choice Burgundies and first-growth Bordeaux -- "whatever they could pronounce" -- and finish with $100 shots of century-old Armagnac.
And that was for lunch.
Then came the 1980's crash. He had a friend deliver an oil barrel, planted it in his entrance hall and pegged the price of lunch to the price of crude.
But even in the best of recent times, his biggest seller had been the house wine, and then only at dinner. "The newer guys never learned to entertain," he sniffed. "A lot of them think a Caesar salad and grilled chicken breast is a gourmet meal."
But Mr. Zimmerman, for one, has made provisions in case a still lower oil price compels an even more modest style. Back in the garage sits the oil barrel, ready for its return.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fireworks exploded over downtown Houston last Saturday night as part of the opening-night party for the World Energy Council Congress. Some of the most powerful figures in the industry are at the gathering. (Richard Carson/The Houston Chronicle)
 
Graph: "The Well Is Running Dry"
A year is a long time in the oil business. The price of crude is off almost 25 percent from last September, while the S. & P. index that measures the performance of companies serving the oil industry is down by 35 percent over the same period. Graph tracks the percent change in the price of crude oil and in the S. & P. Oil Well Equipment & Services index, since last September. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (65%); PXD (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (65%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (58%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: WORLD ENERGY COUNCIL CONGRESS IHS INC (65%); PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES CO (58%); WORLD ENERGY COUNCIL (93%); WORLD ENERGY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ENERGY COUNCIL CONGRESS WORLD ENERGY COUNCIL (93%); WORLD ENERGY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); GAS STATIONS (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); PHYSICS (72%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (60%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R SCOTT D SHEFFIELD (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



423 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Panel Unveils Suggestions For Cutting Property Tax

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
A state commission charged with finding ways to lessen local property taxes in New Jersey offered 60 recommendations today, including a cap on annual increases in salaries of public employees, consolidation of some functions of local school districts and state financing of local prosecutors offices.
In addition to suggesting cost-cutting measures, the commission called for legislation that would allow some local governments to collect taxes on parking, entertainment and hotel room fees and to impose fees on developers whose projects would increase burdens on schools and parks. 
 If all the measures were adopted, said Barbara Cannon, the Mayor of Old Bridge Township and the commission's chairwoman, property taxes could be reduced as much as 10 percent.
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman is expected to announce on Wednesday which measures she would support. Leaders of the Republican-controlled legislature were silent on the proposals, waiting to see what measures Mrs. Whitman would support.
But Democrats and others greeted the proposals with reactions that ranged from resigned yawns to truculent fuming, saying that the recommendations were either old, inadequate or too radical.
Mrs. Whitman set up the Property Tax Commission last December after she narrowly won re-election against a Democratic challenger who effectively attacked her policies on auto insurance and her failure to reduce property taxes. On a per capita basis, property taxes in New Jersey are the highest in the nation.
But in coming up with its recommendations, the commission remained true to the Governor's early admonition that it not pursue a wholesale shifting of the burden for financing education and other services from local to statewide taxes, as some have sought.
"The commission concluded that a significant shift of the revenue source for local education from the property tax to a statewide tax could create serious economic consequences for the state," the commission said in its report. "Additionally, such a shift would require New Jerseyans to forgo a degree of local control over the education of their children, as additional state controls would be necessary to maintain the benefits of additional state aid."
Among the cost-saving steps envisioned by the commission's recommendations was cutting education costs, by far the main component of the state's high property taxes, by allowing school districts to consolidate or merge certain functions. For example, transportation operations for neighboring districts could be merged for savings. Purchasing operations for a group of districts as well as administrative and payroll functions could be merged and shared to lower costs.
Similar consolidations could be used, the commission said, in municipal services ranging from trash collection and disposal to police and fire services. The recommendations include the offering of financial incentives in the form of transitional aid from the state to smooth the way to such changes.
The Senate Democratic minority leader, Richard J. Codey, said that much of what is recommended is drawn from measures put forward in the past by Democrats and Republicans in the Legislature, but not embraced by Mrs. Whitman.
"The only thing new in this report is the ink," said Senator Codey. "Some of these things are likely to get done now in some fashion because she is either getting out of the way or jumping on the ship as it sails out of the harbor."
Lynn Maher, spokeswoman for the New Jersey Education Association, the state's largest teachers union representing 90,000 active teachers, angrily said that the proposal to cap public employee salaries and peg increases to the rate of inflation as measured by the Consumer Price Index would surely be challenged legally by the group and other employee unions.
Charles J. Coleman, a professor of management at the Rutgers University School of Business in Camden and an expert on public sector labor relations, called the recommendation for a cap on salaries "a dumb idea."
"You don't control things with these overall initiatives," he said. "What you are going to end up with is the good people leaving and the bad people staying."
William G. Dressel Jr., the executive director of the New Jersey State League of Municipalities, said that the group had no problem with what was in the report, but thought it did not go far enough in shifting public education expenses to the state.
He added that the group favored the consolidations and the host of financial incentives that the commission proposes for localities that merge services and functions. But like others, he rejected the proposed cap on salaries, saying that while it might strengthen local officials' hand in labor negotiations, it also severely limited their discretion.
One commission member, James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, conceded that the recommendations were "no silver bullet." The commission sought to outline choices that took into account that New Jersey, as the most densely populated state in the nation, has more government per capita than other states.
"New Jersey citizens might like that, and what the commission wants to make clear is that if they want that then they have to realize that they will have to pay for it," Mr. Hughes said.
Other recommendations from the commission include devising joint purchasing agreements for localities to command better prices on a host of items; providing early retirement incentives for local employees and allowing decertification of some civil service positions; creating joint municipal courts, and speeding local property tax revaluation by creating a state program to absorb increases initially and phase them in over three years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; PARKING; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS; HOTELS AND MOTELS PROPERTY TAX (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); MAYORS (77%); EDUCATION LAW (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (66%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (50%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



424 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Markets Continue to Rise As Dow Climbs 79 Points
Stocks rose for the third consecutive day. Traders and analysts attributed the continued increases to optimism about a coordinated approach to the global economic crises.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 79.04 points, or 0.99 percent, to 8,024.39, its highest close this month. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.96 points, to 1,037.68, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 12.42 points, to 1,678.11. Page C8. 

The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond increased to 5.25 percent, from 5.22 percent on Monday. Bellwether 30-year bond yields have dropped about half a percentage point in the last two months. C8.
 
Prosecution Upheld in Insider Case
A New York State court upheld the right of Robert Morgenthau, the Manhattan District Attorney, to prosecute insider-trading cases. Defendants' lawyers called the ruling a dangerous application of state law that could increase all stockbrokers' liability. C2.
 
Head of F.C.C. Responds to Critics
William E. Kennard, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, lashed out at critics who have blamed his agency for the problems plaguing the introduction of digital television services. The F.C.C. had decided to let the telecommunications industry set the standards for high-definition television sets. C2.
 
Task Force Calls for Bank Changes
A task force has recommended approval of mergers of large Canadian banks and the easing of rules for foreign banks to operate there as long as the public interest is protected. C4.
 
Future of American Home Improves
Things are starting to look up for American Home Products, which has suffered product recalls, liability lawsuits and a weak drug pipeline recently. But its proposed merger with Monsanto will make the new company a pharmaceutical and agricultural giant. Analysts also see signs of encouragement in American Home's bounty of new drugs. Market Place. C7.
 
A New On-Line Women's Service
America Online is selling three of its women-oriented services to a new venture formed by Geraldine B. Laybourne, the former head of Walt Disney's cable unit and the former president of Nickelodeon. She will develop them for a new women's service offered by America Online. Advertising. C6.
 
Retail Sales Rose Just 0.2% in August
Retail sales rose two-tenths of a percent in August, less than had been expected. Gains in apparel and furniture sales were offset by a drop in auto sales. Retail sales at stores open at least a year rose 4 percent. C7.
 
For the Oil Industry, Tales of Woe
The world's energy-industry luminaries are in Houston for the triennial meeting of the World Energy Council Congress, but despite a lavish Texas-style welcome, they have little to cheer with oil prices at about $14 a barrel. C23.
 
Old Denver Airport's New Life
Three and one-half years after Denver's $5 billion new airport drew the nation's attention, the old airport is grabbing back the spotlight. A development project one-third the size of Manhattan is taking shape at what once was known as Stapleton International, a reflection of Denver's continuing economic boom. A12.
 
Group Seeks New Sleepwear Rules
A coalition of consumer and fire prevention groups is seeking tougher fire-protection standards for children's sleepwear. A16.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,024.29, up 79.04
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.25%, up 0.03
The Dollar -- 133.90 yen, up 1.22
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
Industrial Production
 August figures due at 9:15 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +1.1%
 
Another graph tracks the percent change in retail sales, from March through August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (67%); PFE (NYSE) (67%); MON (NYSE) (53%); DIS (NYSE) (52%); AOL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (67%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (67%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (67%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (54%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (53%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (53%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (67%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (54%); MONSANTO CO (53%); WALT DISNEY CO (52%); AOL INC (52%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (95%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BONDS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); MERGERS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SALES (86%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (84%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (79%); BOND MARKETS (79%); WOMEN (79%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (73%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (72%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (72%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (71%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (68%); APPROVALS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (66%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (61%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (61%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); PRODUCT RECALLS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



425 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Rise 0.2%, Below Expectations

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Retail sales rose less than expected in August as gains in apparel and furniture were offset by a drop in automotive business.
August sales rose two-tenths of a percent after declining six-tenths of a percent in July, the Commerce Department said today. When autos are excluded, August retail sales rose three-tenths of a percent after increasing six-tenths of a percent in July. 
 Analysts had expected a rise of five-tenths of a percent in overall August sales and a gain of two-tenths of a percent without autos.
"Spending has moderated from robust growth in the first half of the year, and any continued weakness in equity markets will portend less exuberant spending going forward," said Steven Wood, chief economist at BancAmerica Robertson Stephens in San Francisco.
Still, a strong labor market, rising incomes, subdued prices and high consumer confidence will keep consumer spending rolling along, Mr. Wood said. Resilient consumer spending has been an important factor in the economy's strength this year. Consumer spending -- which accounts for two-thirds of gross domestic product -- rose at a 5.8 percent annual rate in the second quarter, compared with 6.1 percent in the first three months of the year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT ROBERTSON STEPHENS (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES RETAIL SALES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAILERS (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); 

PERSON: STEVEN WOOD (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



426 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2146 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE PUBLIC;
Keep Clinton in Office, Most Say In Poll, but His Image Is Eroding

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE with JANET ELDER 

 BODY:
The public's view of President Clinton's moral character has sunk to the lowest level of his Presidency, but most Americans say they still believe he is a vigorous leader who should not be impeached or forced to resign, the latest New York Times/ CBS News Poll shows.
Slowly but steadily, the public's perception of Mr. Clinton's personal image has slipped since January, when Americans first learned of his relationship with a former White House intern. But over time, the cumulative shift has been striking. 
 In itself, the report released last week by Kenneth W. Starr, the Whitewater independent counsel, seemed to have little additional impact on these attitudes. Americans said they disliked Mr. Starr and suspected his motives. Though only 1 in 20 respondents said they had read the full report, and about half said they had read part of it, most people said the graphic sexual details were unnecessarily salacious and intended to embarrass the President.
And despite the glare of publicity about the affair, Mr. Clinton's job approval rating stands at 62 percent, impressive by any reckoning.
Still, by several measures, the survey showed that most people now see Mr. Clinton as bereft of the code of ethics that they try to live by. Sixty-six percent of Americans said Mr. Clinton did not share their moral values, while 29 percent said he did. In January, the public was divided on Mr. Clinton's morals, and after his re-election two years ago, a majority perceived Mr. Clinton as someone who did share their ethical standards. And for the first time since Democrats lost the House in 1994 -- and only the second time in Mr. Clinton's six years in office -- more Americans viewed the President unfavorably than favorably, with 39 percent viewing him favorably and 45 percent not.
While people say they want to put the scandal behind them, they also want Mr. Clinton to be reprimanded for his conduct -- but not impeached or forced from office. Fifty-seven percent of those polled said Congress should vote to censure Mr. Clinton; 33 percent were opposed to censure. More than 6 in 10 Americans said they thought the best thing for the country was for Mr. Clinton to finish his term. In answer to another question, 58 percent said it was not necessary for Congress to hold impeachment hearings at all, while 36 percent said it was.
The public's personal view of Mr. Clinton has diminished over nine months roughly equally among all groups, rich and poor, urban and rural, young and old, male and female. For example, the perception that Mr. Clinton shares the moral values of most Americans has dropped by 10 percentage points among men and 14 points among women -- not much of a gap.
The poll of 1,813 adults nationwide, conducted Saturday through Monday, also found that the public blamed Mr. Clinton and not his enemies for the crisis, a change from a few months ago. Fifty-four percent blamed Mr. Clinton and 36 percent blamed his enemies -- figures that have roughly reversed since February. More and more, people have come to believe that Mr. Clinton probably did encourage Monica S. Lewinsky to lie under oath.
In the latest survey, 46 percent said he did encourage her to lie, 18 percent said he did not, and 32 percent said they did not know. When respondents were pressed, the numbers were even more stark: 61 percent said Mr. Clinton encouraged Ms. Lewinsky to lie. The poll has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus two percentage points.
Yet even against these harsh judgments, Mr. Clinton is protected by an important bulwark that has confounded the pundits -- as well as the President's Republican detractors -- since the scandal broke: the measures of Mr. Clinton not as a man but as a President continue to be strikingly strong. He is seen as an effective leader by 66 percent of those polled.
And Mr. Clinton's job approval rating, which White House officials have clung to as their best evidence that the scandal has not tarnished his command of the office, stands at 62 percent. Earlier this month it was 60 percent, and last month, immediately after he told the nation he had had an inappropriate relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, it was 65 percent. When the scandal broke in January, Mr. Clinton's job approval rating was 56 percent.
"He's running the country well," said Morley Fogel, 61, a retired salesman and a Democrat from Tequesta, Fla. "He's just not running his life very well."
Mr. Fogel, a poll respondent who was re-interviewed yesterday, added: "He's ruined a legacy that he could have left as a President who turned around the economy. Instead, he'll be remembered as a philanderer."
Another respondent, Victoria Livingston, 72, a retired teacher in Phoenix who said she voted as an independent, put it this way: "This situation upsets me a lot. But I think he should be allowed to finish out his term. What he's done is a personal thing. It doesn't have anything to do with what he's doing for the country. He's done a very good job for the country."
The poll showed that people continued to draw a sharp distinction between the President's personal and public lives. Fifty-eight percent said they viewed the situation more as a private matter, while 35 percent said it was more a public matter having to do with Mr. Clinton's job as President.
But Presidential approval ratings can plummet sharply. The last President to serve two terms, Ronald Reagan, also enjoyed high approval ratings in his second term. But his ratings fell 21 points from October to November of 1986 -- to 46 percent -- amid public concern over the Iran-contra affair. It was the sharpest one-month drop in Presidential approval ever recorded.
While people were critical of what Mr. Starr included in the report, they also disapproved of how Congress handled the matter. Thirty-seven percent said the House did the right thing in releasing Mr. Starr's report, with all the graphic sexual details, while 59 percent said the full report should not have been released.
Despite those concerns about how lawmakers are handling the crisis, Congress as an institution drew a higher approval rating for the job it was doing than it had since the Times/CBS Poll first began asking about Congressional job ratings, in 1974. Fifty-six percent of Americans now say they approve of the way Congress is doing its job.
Those ratings are an encouraging sign for incumbents as their general election campaigns begin in full force. But the survey offered few clues as to how the scandal might reverberate on Election Day. Seventy-four percent said the scandal would have no effect on whom they supported for Congress.
The Lewinsky matter seems to have had little effect on voters' images of the two parties, according to a CBS News poll taken before the Starr report was made public. More than half of the public said they held a favorable view of the Democratic Party, roughly the same number who said they had a positive view of the Republican Party.
In that poll, the images of the parties remained similar to what they were in the last election. Democrats were perceived as the party that would make better decisions on social issues like education and health care. Republicans were seen as being tougher on crime and better at upholding traditional family values.
Both parties were seen as offering candidates with similar levels of honesty and integrity. But over all, the Republican Party was considered to have higher ethical standards than the Democratic Party.
Despite the appetite for Mr. Clinton to be censured, only 32 percent in the latest Times/CBS News Poll said it would be better for the country for him to resign. Asked, in another question, their views if it turned out that Mr. Clinton did obstruct justice, 22 percent said he should apologize, 30 percent said he should resign, 19 percent said he should be impeached, and 26 percent said the matter should be dropped.
And regardless of what they thought should happen, in the end, 18 percent said they expected Mr. Clinton to be impeached, 11 percent said he would resign, and 62 percent said neither would happen.
"I don't think Congress has the stomach for an impeachment proceeding," said George O'Donnell, 44, a poll respondent from Marion, Iowa. Mr. O'Donnell, an independent who is a motor vehicle inspector, said censure was a fitting punishment. "A censure, if you look at it like a plea bargain or reduced charges, says: 'You lied. We know it. But we're going to let you continue your term.' "
A Republican respondent from Buffalo who identified herself only as Marie, 66, a retired restaurant owner, also made a distinction between the President's private behavior and his public performance.
"This country seems to be doing very well, and I don't see that a personal problem has anything to do with running the country," she said. "The stock market is doing well. There are more jobs for people. Basically, I think the American people are happier than they've been in many years."
In another sign that many people were sympathetic to Mr. Clinton in his predicament, 53 percent said it would be understandable for him to lie under oath or to encourage Ms. Lewinsky to lie under oath about their sexual conduct; 41 percent said it would not be understandable.
As speculation swirled over how Mr. Clinton's travails would affect Vice President Al Gore, the survey found that Mr. Gore's favorability rating has not been noticeably affected. Twenty-four percent have a favorable view of Mr. Gore, 21 percent unfavorable, and most people are undecided or do not know enough about him.
Hillary Rodham Clinton's support has been buoyed by the revelations about her husband's infidelity. Fifty-percent of Americans had a favorable opinion of her, 25 percent unfavorable.
And while Speaker Newt Gingrich has sought to cast himself as a statesman and above partisanship in dealing with the scandal, he is still viewed more unfavorably than favorably by the public. Twenty-four percent give him a favorable rating, 31 percent unfavorable, and the remaining are undecided or do not know enough about the Speaker.
Mr. Starr's negative ratings, while consistent, are also high. Forty-three percent of Americans said their view of him was not favorable, 23 percent said it was favorable, and the rest were undecided or did not know. Fifty percent said Mr. Starr's report was mostly a one-sided look at some facts, while 35 percent said it was fair and balanced.
"A lot of it could be politically motivated," said a poll respondent, Marcelline Farris, 47, a nurse in Lenore, W. Va., who is a Democrat. "They've been hounding him since he's been in office. The country needs to move on. He's human."
Still, many Republican lawmakers said they expected the polls to shift to the point where Mr. Clinton's job approval ratings would suffer.
"Anything this big has got to have some impact on the polls," Senator Trent Lott, the Republican leader, said in an interview. "But it won't be reflected for days or even weeks. The average man and woman out there didn't spend the weekend reading the Starr report."
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/ CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Saturday through Monday with 1,813 adults throughout the United States.
The survey was organized as a tracking poll, with independent daily samples, designed to capture daily shifts in public opinion, if they occurred, as Americans heard or read about the report to Congress by the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country.
Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples (combining all three days of interviewing) will differ by no more than two percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. For example, for any one day's results, it is plus or minus four percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variations in question wording or the order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat different results.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing results of polls conducted by The New York Times and CBS News:
 
Graphs show results of the the following poll questions, plotted from 1993 through 1998:
Approve of the way Bill Clinton is handling his job as President.
Favorable opinion of Bill Clinton.
 
Should Congress vote to censure President Clinton or not?
Yes: 57%
No: 33%
Don't know: 10%
 
Should the House of Representatives hold impeachment hearings or not?
Yes: 36%
No: 58%
Don't know: 6%
(pg. A1)
 
Chart: "Perceptions Through the Scandal"
 
Based on telephone polls conducted by The Times and CBS News at three critical points: after President Clinton's State of the Union Speech in February, after his grand jury testimony in August and after the Starr report was made public. The latest was conducted Sept. 12-14 with 1,813 adults nationwide.
 
President Clinton's personal image has eroded
 
Favorable opinion
February: 51%
August: 48%
September: 39%
 
Not favorable
February: 26%
August: 40%
September: 45%
 
Undecided
February: 23%
August: 11%
September: 15%
 
Bill Clinton shares the moral values most Americans try to live by
 
Does
February: 44%
August: 36%
September: 29%
 
Does not
February: 41%
August: 59%
September: 66%
 
Claims that Bill Clinton encouraged Monica Lewinsky to lie are:
 
Probably true
February: 27%
August: 33%
September: 46%
 
Probably not true
February: 29%
August: 35%
September: 18%
 
Don't know yet
February: 42%
August: 42%
September: 36%
 
Kenneth W. Starr's image has stayed negative
 
Favorable opinion
February: 11%
August: 19%
September: 23%
 
Not favorable
February: 31%
August: 43%
September: 43%
 
Undecided
February: 58%
August: 37%
September: 34%
 
The Independent Counsel has mostly been conducting an:
 
Impartial investigation to find out if anything illegal occurred
February: 30%
August: 29%
September: 32%
 
Partisan investigation to damage Bill Clinton
February: 55%
August: 60%
September: 55%
 
Don't know
February: 15%
August: 11%
September: 13%
 
Americans are evaluating the next steps
 
If President Clinton did obstruct justice, this should happen:
 
He should admit and apologize
February: 46%
August: 29%
September: 22%
 
He should resign
February: 21%
August: 28%
September: 30%
 
Congress should begin impeachment
February: 12%
August: 17%
September: 19%
 
Matter should be dropped
February: 16%
August: 23%
September: 26%
 
Don't know
February: 4%
August: 3%
September: 4%
(pg. A22)
 
Chart: "How Groups Have Shifted on Clinton" lists percentages of people, from diverse demographics, responding to the following questions:
 
Approve of the way Clinton is handling the job as President
Say Bill Clinton shares the moral values of most Americans
Blame Bill Clinton's political enemies for the current situation
 
Poll is based on national telephone polls conducted with 940 adults Jan. 24 and 25 and 1,813 adults Sept. 12 to 14. (pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; ETHICS; IMPEACHMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); ETHICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SCANDALS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L; ELDER, JANET; STARR, KENNETH W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



427 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Stocks in Brazil Rally, Buoying Latin Markets

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Record gains by Brazilian stocks accelerated today, the third consecutive day of a rally that has driven up the market 45 percent. The strong gains were fueled by a growing sense among investors that developed nations would protect Latin American economies from the devastation that has crippled Asia and Russia.
In a financial crisis rooted in fear, and feeding on panic, the reality that any international bailout remained somewhat amorphous seemed almost beside the point. President Clinton's speech on Monday calling on advanced countries to support Latin economies, and suggestions in London by officials of the Group of Seven industrial nations of a new economic approach to promote growth in emerging markets, as distinct from a tight monetary policy, were enough for stocks to rally. 
 In Sao Paulo, Brazil's benchmark Bovespa index closed up 18.68 percent, with most other Latin markets rising along with it. In Argentina, the key index closed up 8.9 percent, while Mexican blue chips gained 12.92 percent. Improvements in Chile and Venezuela were more modest, at 3.71 percent and 3.75 percent, respectively.
But investment analysts continued to insist that the upturn, just four trading days after Brazilian stocks plunged 15.82 percent, was a sign of volatility more than health. Some $900 million left the country on Monday, cutting dollar reserves to less than $50 billion. As of 7 P.M. today, $350 million more had left central bank coffers.
"These currency outflows will come down once it's sure that the Brazilian foreign reserves will be backed by some kind of overdraft protection from the I.M.F.," said Florencio Deteresa of Global Emerging Markets North America. "All these markets have been hit by very high volatility."
Stocks also rose on word that President Fernando Henrique Cardoso planned to telephone President Clinton, which some interpreted as a sign of growing coordination at the highest levels of government to steer Brazil, the world's ninth-largest economy, through its turbulence.
"The markets are looking for a signal that there's going to be decisive coordinated international action to prevent the crisis from forcing Brazil into devaluation," said Francisco Larios, a senior emerging markets economist at Standard & Poor's DRI, "and these rumors feed the hope that such action is being worked on. That's fine, however, we have to see much more in terms of preventive action before confidence is restored on a more permanent basis. This is a time when you're going to have rumors left and right." Last week, Standard & Poor's downgraded Brazilian debt to negative status.
After the markets closed today, the President's spokesman, Sergio Amaral, said Mr. Cardoso wanted to thank Mr. Clinton for his speech on Monday, which he said contained variations on ideas Mr. Cardoso had broached in his first meeting with Mr. Clinton in April 1995.
 A White House spokesman said late on Tuesday that President Clinton had talked not only to Mr. Cardoso but also to President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico and Jean Chretien, the Prime Minister of Canada, according to Bloomberg News and Reuters. Mr. Clinton wanted to get the leaders' firsthand assessment of the regional and global economic situation, said the official, who provided no other details.
Brazil has said it is not seeking help from the International Monetary Fund, but Mr. Cardoso has called for a cut in United States interest rates to ease pressure on emerging economies. The President has insisted that the problems roiling Brazil stem from international uncertainties, rather than weaknesses in its economy.
Mr. Cardoso's view was echoed tonight by Michel Camdessus, managing director of the I.M.F., during a appearance at the European-American Business Council in New York. Mr. Camdessus said despite Brazil's troubles, it had made "enormous progress in the right direction."
He said the I.M.F. "stands ready to help with advice, opinions and if needed, financial assistance, but as of now, Brazil has not asked for financial support."
President Cardoso, three weeks before he seeks re-election on Oct. 4, would be loath to accept strict conditions that would likely be part of a conventional I.M.F. bailout package, political analysts here say. But there was talk among analysts of possible overdraft protection from the I.M.F. that would carry softer conditions.
Yet in Washington today, George Soros, the international financier, warned that the I.M.F. lacked sufficient funds to ward off turbulence. "I don't think any bailout is possible," Mr. Soros said at a Congressional hearing. "Clearly there would be a great need for I.M.F. assistance and the I.M.F. needs greater capacity than it has to meet those needs," he said.
David Rothkopf, president of the Newmarket Company, investment advisers in Washington, agreed, saying that with the uncertainty he did not expect the Brazilian stock rally to sustain itself. The recent buying, he said, showed some bottom-fishing. Now, he said, "I think things will be bad but not disastrous." Mr. Rothkopf said world leaders and economists seemed overwhelmed by "the first protracted international crisis of the global era."
"I don't think the institutions are in place to deal with such a thing," he added, "and the leadership that's in power now doesn't have the experience to deal with it, and they don't have the tools they need."

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Soros before the House Banking Committee yesterday. (Reuters)(pg. C7)
 
Graph: "A Big Bounce" tracks the Brazilian Bovespa index, plotted daily, since the beginning of the year. (Source: Datastream) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ASIA (93%); MEXICO (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

COMPANY: ;INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND STANDARD & POOR'S DRI (81%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; BRAZIL; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; RUSSIA; MEXICO; ARGENTINA; BRAZIL (98%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); ASIA (93%); MEXICO (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (84%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TRENDS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BONDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SOROS, GEORGE BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE SOROS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



428 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1396 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Mexican Anti-Drug Unit Falls Under U.S. Suspicion
Some of the top investigators of an elite Mexican police unit that was trained by Americans may have ties to drug traffickers, American officials said. A1 

Rights Official's Hope for China
The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, said in China that despite continuing abuses she had sensed a new willingness among China's leaders to discuss the country's human rights record. Mrs. Robinson also said officials had told her they would sign an international rights accord. A8
 
Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen received pledges from China's senior military leader on moving ahead with modest joint military exercises and exchanges with the United States. Mr. Cohen and the leader also signed a pact at the Pentagon to share information on environmental problems caused by the military. A8
 
Russian Reformer Departs
Boris G. Fyodorov, a former Finance Minister who returned to the Government in the spring to spearhead an aggressive tax collection drive, has reportedly left the Russian Government, removing one of the last strong voices for free-market reform in the team being put together by Prime Minister Yevgeny M. Primakov. A4
 
The World Bank approved $600 million in loans for Ukraine to shore up its economy and develop a competitive banking system. The money will help the Government remodel the centrally planned economy it inherited from the Soviet era. Ukraine's currency has been under heavy pressure since Russia devalued its ruble. Russia accounts for 40 percent of Ukraine's foreign trade. (Reuters)
 
Albanian Opposition Protests
About 3,000 followers of the former Albanian President, Sali Berisha, defied a Government ban and staged a peaceful march through the capital, Tirana. The Socialist Prime Minister, Fatos Nano, emerged from hiding after violent protests on Monday and accused Mr. Berisha of trying to stage a coup and demanded that opposition supporters surrender their arms. A5
 
Iraq Assails U.N. Chief
A senior Iraqi official leveled an unusual direct attack on Secretary General Kofi Annan, apparently trying to draw him into a growing confrontation over arms inspections. Iraq has said it will cut all cooperation with United Nations arms inspectors. A11
 
Iran-Afghan Tension Builds
Iran's supreme leader told the country's military and top civilian officials to be ready to carry out "speedy, timely and forceful implementation" of coming decisions in a crisis over Afghanistan. A10
 
The Taliban movement in Afghanistan, aware of its isolation in the face of an Iranian military threat, asked the United Nations again to establish a process for defusing tensions over the killings of Iranian diplomats in Afghanistan. A10
 
NATIONAL A12-27
 
Most Want Clinton to Stay Despite Scandal, Poll Says
The public's view of President Clinton's moral character has sunk to the lowest level of his Presidency, but most Americans still believe he is a vigorous leader who should not be impeached or forced to resign, a New York Times/CBS News Poll shows. Americans also dislike Kenneth W. Starr and suspect his motives. A1
 
President Clinton hired fresh advisers and dispatched top aides to placate Congressional Democrats as members of the House Judiciary Committee debated whether to release a videotape of his grand jury testimony on Monica S. Lewinsky. A1
 
Representative Henry J. Hyde, the chairman of the House committee that will weigh possible impeachment charges against President Clinton, promised action against any effort to use smear tactics against members of his committee. A24
 
Republican operatives are trying to figure how best to exploit the President's troubles for campaigning. A22
 
Pentagon Seeks More Money
President Clinton met with senior generals and admirals and heard warnings that the armed forces were being stretched thin by increasing duties and decreasing budgets. A20
 
Primary Results
Anthony A. Williams, a government technocrat who moved to Washington less than three years ago to help lift the District of Columbia out of its fiscal mess, won the Democratic nomination for mayor. In Massachusetts, Michael Capuano, the Mayor of Somerville, won the Democratic primary in the Eighth Congressional District, a seat held by Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, who is retiring. The Acting Republican Governor, Argeo Paul Cellucci, won his gubernatorial primary and will face the winner of the Democratic primary, Attorney General Scott Harshbarger. In Minnesota, Hubert H. Humphrey 3d won the Democratic Farmer-Labor Party nomination for governor. A27
 
More Deadly in Air Than Water
Radon in drinking water poses few human health risks by itself, but it increases people's overall risk from the toxic gas when it escapes into the air and is inhaled, a National Research Council committee said. A12
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Schumer Wins Nomination In Democrats' Senate Race
United States Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn won the Democratic nomination to challenge Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato in November, overwhelming Geraldine A. Ferraro in her second attempt to return to public office and the third major candidate, Mark Green, New York City's Public Advocate. A1
 
Peter F. Vallone, the New York City Council Speaker, won the Democratic gubernatorial primary. A1
 
Eliot L. Spitzer won the Democratic primary for attorney general. B9
 
Murder Suspect Is Own Counsel
A judge in Queens ruled that a defendant facing the death penalty would be allowed to represent himself in court. B1
 
Union-Pharmacy Agreement
New York City's largest union of health-care workers will steer tens of millions of dollars in business to the Rite Aid pharmacy chain because many of its stores are unionized. B3
 
Baseball in Brooklyn Again?
New York City reached agreement in principle with the New York Mets to move one of their farm teams to a new ball park in Coney Island. B3
 
EDUCATION B12
 
Bar Told to Assist Applicant
A Federal appeals court in New York ruled that a law-school graduate with a reading disorder was entitled to extra time and other accommodations on the state bar examination, although an expert hired by bar examiners said she had no disability. A1
 
Vote on Police Security Plan
The New York City Board of Education is to vote today on a plan that would give the Police Department responsibility for security in public schools. B1
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
McGwire Sets Another Record
Mark McGwire of the St. Louis Cardinals hit his 63d home run of the season in the first game of a double header against the Pittsburgh Pirates to move ahead of Sammy Sosa of the Cubs, who had no home runs against San Diego last night. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
Foreign Crises Hitting Home
Tiger Management, a well-known hedge fund manager, and BankAmerica reported big losses in emerging-market investments, evidence that the economic havoc in Asia, Russia and Latin America is roiling big financial companies. C1
 
Big Gains, and Hope, in Brazil
Brazilian stocks charged forward with record gains for their third straight day, fueled by a growing sense among investors that developed nations would protect Latin economies from the devastation that has crippled Asia and Russia. C1
 
Stock prices in American markets rose again, the first time they have risen in three consecutive sessions in more than a month. The Dow was up 79.04 points, at 8,024.39. C8
 
Intel in Audio-Video Deal
Intel will license its advanced video-compression software to Real Networks, a Seattle-based developer of programs that deliver audio and video over the Internet. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Record Gift to Lincoln Center
A new board member gave Lincoln Center $25 million, the largest single gift to the center by an individual. E1
 
OBITUARIES B11
 
EDITORIAL A28-29
 
Editorials: A Clinton plea bargain; preventing world recession; the real campaigns begin.
 
Columns: Maureen Dowd.
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather D5
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (51%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MEXICO (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); ALBANIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); 

CITY: TIRANA, ALBANIA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (51%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MEXICO (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); ALBANIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); TIRANA, ALBANIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); INSPECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); TALIBAN (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); RIOTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); CURRENCIES (70%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (68%); COUPS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); DEVALUATION (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



429 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Official Criticizes U.N. Chief Over Role in Arms Inspection

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 15

 BODY:
A senior Iraqi official close to President Saddam Hussein leveled an unusual direct attack on Secretary General Kofi Annan today, apparently trying to draw Mr. Annan into a growing confrontation over arms inspections.
Iraq is on the verge of cutting off all cooperation with United Nations inspectors and could either expel inspectors or force a situation in which they would have to be withdrawn, ending years of painstaking disarmament and raising questions about how Iraq can be prevented from rearming. 
 The crisis has demoralized the United Nations Special Commission, which is responsible for dismantling Iraq's prohibited weapons and insuring that Baghdad cannot build new ones.
Iraq wants a restructuring of the paralyzed commission and more initiatives by the Secretary General, who met on Monday with representatives of the five permanent members of the Security Council -- Britain, China, France, Russia and the United States -- and this month's Council president, Hans Dahlgren of Sweden, to discuss a review of Iraqi relations with the United Nations if and when cooperation resumes.
In Baghdad today, the Iraqi official, Hamed Youssef Hummadi, an adviser in the President's office, said in an article in an official newspaper, al-Qadissiya, that Mr. Annan had failed to honor a promise the Iraqis said he made in February, "which called for ending the embargo imposed on Iraq."
Mr. Annan's agreement, reached in a meeting with President Hussein in Baghdad, opened formerly closed sites to inspectors, a requirement for moving toward the end of inspections. But it did not promise an automatic end to sanctions.
Mr. Annan is "not enthusiastic" about involving himself in this crisis, at least not at this point, a Western diplomat said here today. Diplomats say that it is impossible to know whether the Iraqis really believe in their interpretation of events or are merely trying to provoke reaction.
Mr. Hummadi's comments reflected Iraqi annoyance with Mr. Annan's insistence that Baghdad must reverse its decision, made on Aug. 5, to stop on-site inspections, a clear violation of the Secretary General's accord. Mr. Annan told diplomats from the Security Council on Monday that he agrees with them that no review of relations with Iraq can be conducted until the decision is reversed.
Peter Burleigh, the acting chief United States representative at the United Nations, said in an interview today that if the Iraqis wanted a comprehensive review of their relations with the United Nations, that is exactly what they will get.
"We're very comfortable about what the bottom line of that review would be," Mr. Burleigh said.
In Cairo, another senior Iraqi official renewed the attacks on United Nations inspectors today. Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf, who is seeking support at a meeting of the Arab League, said that Iraq had "no confidence in the arms inspection committee and in the policies of the United States."
Mr. Sahaf is expected to have some success in Cairo, because attitudes have been hardening against sanctions and the problems they are causing Iraqi civilians, experts say.
"We face a rising tide of anger in the streets in many Middle Eastern cities, which our friendly countries in the region are finding harder to control," said Phebe Marr, a historian of modern Iraq at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington who has returned from several months in the region.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); EGYPT (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); EGYPT (79%); CHINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (72%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; HUMMADI, HAMED YOUSSEF; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



430 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Wins Chance to Take Storied Kennedy House Seat

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG 

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 15

 BODY:
Michael Capuano, the Mayor of the Boston suburb of Somerville, fought off nine rivals to inherit one of the most storied of political seats in the country tonight, winning the Democratic primary in the Eighth Congressional District, which sent a young John F. Kennedy to Washington more than half a century ago.
So entrenched are the liberal leanings of the Eighth that Mr. Capuano is considered a shoo-in to win the general election in November and claim the seat of the second Kennedy to hold it, Representative Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, who is retiring. 
 Mr. Capuano ran largely on skilled hometown organization, effective television ads and a can-do record as Mayor that included reducing class size in Somerville schools to 19 pupils.
In the Massachusetts race for governor, Acting Gov. Argeo Paul Cellucci solidly defeated the State Treasurer, Joseph D. Malone, for the Republican Party nomination. Mr. Cellucci, who had 58 percent of the vote with 92 percent of precincts reporting, will face State Attorney General Scott Harshbarger, who won the Democratic primary tonight with 51 percent of the vote, with 88 percent of precincts reporting. Political pollsters consider the race between Mr. Cellucci and Mr. Harshbarger a toss-up.
In Rhode Island, which also held its primary today, the stage is set for a similarly hard-fought governor's race. Lincoln Almond, the Republican incumbent, who was unopposed, will face a rematch against a former state senator, Myrth York, a Democrat.
In the Eighth District of Massachusetts, which includes parts of Boston and several suburbs, early estimates held that only about 75,000 people voted, meaning that with the crowded field of 10 candidates, all it took was a few thousand votes to win -- and Mr. Capuano's Somerville contained 15 percent of the Democratic voters in the district.
The appetite to vote was blunted by the strong economy combined with less-than-compelling statewide races and perhaps a tinge of added political alienation brought on by the scandal in Washington, analysts said. William Galvin, the Massachusetts Secretary of State, predicted that of the state's 3.3 million registered voters, only about 1 million would come to the polls.
Voting in the Eighth District was hampered as well by widespread confusion among constituents trying to keep the cornucopia of candidates straight.
Ruth Nicolora, a grandmother of 15, who was interviewed after she voted in North Cambridge, said she had voted for Chris Gabrieli, a venture capitalist, because "I liked him from the start." And yet, she said, "I bounced back and forth between different ones. I liked the Mayor of Somerville."
It would have been easier, she said, if Mr. Kennedy had stayed in the race.
"It's a hard seat to fill after Joe," she said.
Mr. Kennedy, the eldest son of Robert F. Kennedy, announced that he was retiring, for now, from politics to devote himself more to family and business following the skiing death of his brother, Michael.
Mr. Capuano's victory was snatched from the hands of Raymond L. Flynn, the former Mayor of Boston and United States Ambassador to the Vatican, who had become the early front-runner in the race. He suffered from a constricted campaign budget and the problem that, though his name recognition was high, opinions about him among voters were deeply mixed between a core of strong support and a core of strong antipathy caused in part by his anti-abortion stance. He conceded the race to Mr. Capuano late tonight.
Polls had also put former State Senator George Bachrach and a former talk-show host, Marjorie Clapprood, among the front-runners in a race that has proved the most expensive Congressional contest ever in Massachusetts.
Mr. Capuano appeared to have been bolstered in part by relatively strong turnout in his hometown of Somerville, a densely populated, well-worn old city of triple-decker houses and confusingly irregular grids of streets known to confound even the well-oriented.
Indeed, despite the lofty history of the Eighth -- the political home of President Kennedy, the longtime House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. and Boston's Rascal King Mayor, James Michael Curley -- the race appeared to devolve down to the most retail of retail politics. A poll commissioned by The Boston Herald found that among voters who supported Mr. Capuano, a full 44 percent had met him.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS; RHODE ISLAND; UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; ELECTION RESULTS; GOVERNORS (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (94%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); VENTURE CAPITAL (50%); 

PERSON: CAPUANO, MICHAEL (MAYOR); KENNEDY, JOSEPH P 2D (REPR); FLYNN, RAYMOND L; CELLUCCI, ARGEO PAUL (ACTING GOV); MALONE, JOSEPH D; HARSHBARGER, SCOTT (ATTY GEN); YORK, MYRTH (SEN); ALMOND, LINCOLN (GOV); GOLDBERG, CAREY MICHAEL E CAPUANO (90%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



431 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Who Should Decide The Sex of a Baby?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Researchers Report Success in Method to Pick Baby's Sex" (front page, Sept. 9): Aristotle observed that a higher proportion of females were conceived in the presence of a cold southern wind. He also believed that facing north during sexual intercourse would result in the conception of a greater number of males. 
 Now that methods are available that can truly improve the likelihood of conceiving a child of a chosen sex, it is critical that we examine the consequences more deeply.
Many would agree that the desire to avoid sex-linked diseases would constitute a valid reason for the use of sex-selection techniques. However, some parents might use these techniques because of their belief in differences in the social and economic roles of girls and boys. What, for example, would be the consequences for a child born of the "wrong" sex to parents who were so intent upon having a child of the "right" sex that they went to the considerable trouble of taking advantage of the new medical technology?
 
NEIL G. BENNETT
New York, Sept. 9, 1998
 
The writer is a demographer at Columbia University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: GENETICS & IVF INSTITUTE COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENETICS & IVF INSTITUTE COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); GENETICS AND HEREDITY; ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TRENDS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BENNETT, NEIL G MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



432 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Good Pay, Good Teachers

 BODY:

To the Editor:
The growing dearth of teaching talent available to public schools across the country should come as no surprise (Week in Review, Sept. 13). The economic and social incentives for top college graduates to pursue teaching over more prestigious and lucrative fields simply do not exist. 
 In the past, qualified women who lacked employment opportunities in other fields filled this need. However, today's female college graduates have vastly increased job opportunities.
The answer lies not in raising graduate school standards or erecting more rigorous credential requirements. Rather, we must reassess and transform our national priorities. When Americans are finally willing to make the education of our children a top national priority, then we will no longer have to worry about the paucity of teaching talent in our public schools.
 
WENDY R. SHELDON
San Francisco, Sept. 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (88%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (88%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: SHELDON, WENDY R WENDY R SHELDON SAN FRANCISCO (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



433 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
The Dow Extends Its Climb to a Third Consecutive Session

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stock prices rose again yesterday, the first time prices have risen for three straight sessions on Wall Street in more than a month.
Extending a theme sounded in recent days, traders and analysts said equity prices were responding to statements from policy makers in Washington and elsewhere that a coordinated response from industrialized nations and lending institutions like the International Monetary Fund to what has come to be seen as a global economic crisis was under serious consideration. 
 The most likely first step to resolving the crisis, according to traders and analysts, is a cut in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve Board and other central banks.
"I think investors are encouraged that policy makers are considering this as a global crisis rather than isolated brush fires," said Christine A. Callies, chief investment strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston.
"Since investors are concerned that falling asset prices are a symptom of global problems, bouncing asset prices might be a sign some of those problems are being relieved. In short, the markets believe the monetary authorities are going to blink."
Although more stocks rose in value than declined, the bulk of the gains were concentrated among blue-chip stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average and high-capitalization issues in the Standard & Poor's 500 index.
By the close, the Dow had gained 79.04 points, to 8,024.39, up just under 1 percent on the day and the highest level so far this month. It was the first three-day advance for the Dow since Aug. 5 through Aug. 7, and puts the blue-chip index back above 7,908.25, where it began the year. Still, the index remains about 1,300 points, or 14 percent, below its July 17 peak of 9,337.97.
The smallish advance was noteworthy for another reason: It is the first time since Sept. 4, when the Dow fell 41.97 points, that the closely watched index has not registered a gain or a loss exceeding 100 points.
Among broader market measures, the Standard & Poor's 500 Index rose 7.96 points, to 1,037.68. The Nasdaq composite index gained 12.42 points, to 1,678.11.
Al Goldman, chief market strategist at A. G. Edwards in St. Louis, said the market "was dull as dishwater until the last 20 to 30 minutes," when he said some computerized "buy" programs came in to the market and traders began buying stocks.
Fed chairman Alan Greenspan and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin are scheduled to testify today before the House Banking Committee on the global economy and financial markets.
Mr. Goldman said the market was pricing in expectations of a cut in interest rates.
However, it is unlikely Mr. Greenspan will provide clear signals about the Fed's intentions during his testimony. Analysts said it was just as unlikely that Mr. Rubin would use the forum as an opportunity to jawbone the Fed.
But the officials may well use the occasion to urge passage of the $17.9 billion in additional funds for the I.M.F. requested by the Clinton Administration, financing that would trigger more than $82 billion in contributions from other member nations.
George Soros, the billionaire hedge fund manager, urged legislators yesterday to approve the full amount, telling Congress it can no longer ignore the "disintegration of the global capitalist system."
Anticipation of interest rate relief and a replenishment of the I.M.F.'s financial resources helped to send equity markets in Mexico and Brazil soaring yesterday.
Brazilian stocks, battered since mid-August, when Russia defaulted on international debts, soared more than 18 percent. Mexican shares rose by nearly 13 percent.
Asian markets were also strong, but with the exception of London, most other European exchanges posted declines.
Prospects of a cut in interest rates and help for troubled developing country economies helped to strengthen stocks of banks and other financial services that have been battered by rolling crises in Asia, Russia and Latin America.
Among the biggest gainers were Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, which climbed 3 3/16, to 56 5/16. American Express rose another 3 3/16, to 84 7/8. J. P. Morgan was up 2 7/16, to 94 7/16. Providian Financial Corporation shares soared 11 1/2, to 72 15/16, after the credit card company's chairman said it could increase earnings by as much as 50 percent this year and next, exceeding analysts' forecasts.
Drug makers, led by Merck & Company, also posted strong gains.
Merck, which gained more than 3 on Monday, rose another 3 1/2 yesterday, to 135 1/2. Eli Lilly & Company rose 1 1/8, to 77 5/16. And Bristol-Myers Squibb was up 1 1/8, to 106.
Still, investors continued to punish companies with deteriorating growth prospects.
The Coca-Cola Company, which relies on foreign sales for about 75 percent of its profits, fell 2 1/8 yesterday, to 61 3/16, after a Lehman Brothers analyst, Michael Branca, cut his 1999 earnings estimate because of slowing sales in Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin America.
Mr. Branca also cut his 1999 earnings forecast for Pepsico Inc. Pepsi lost 1 5/16, to 30.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 17, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
The Markets chart in Business Day yesterday with the daily stock market article, showing the performance of financial and commodities markets, carried outdated figures. They were from Monday, not Tuesday. Correct figures for yesterday's market performance appear in the chart today.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since September 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (96%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



434 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS;
Hedge Fund And Banking Losses Pile Up

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
Tiger Management L.L.C., a well-known hedge fund, and the BankAmerica Corporation, one of the country's largest banks, reported huge losses yesterday in emerging-market investments, evidence that the economic havoc in Asia, Russia and Latin America is continuing to roil United States financial companies.
It was the second time BankAmerica reported an emerging-market loss in less than a month. 
 Tiger Management, run by Julian Robertson, with $22 billion in assets, said it had lost $600 million from Russian ruble-denominated debt in August. Officials for Tiger Management, which is based in New York, declined to comment further.
So far this year, on average, the value of hedge funds investing in emerging markets has declined 35 percent, according to an index of 20 funds compiled by the Hennessee Hedge Fund Advisory Group, a New York firm that advises hedge fund investors. Hedge funds are lightly regulated pools of capital that seek high rates of return in relatively risky investments.
Most of the hedge-fund declines, about 23.4 percent, came in August and were largely a result of losses in Russia, said Charles Gradante, Hennessee's chief investment strategist.
"I think things can get a little bit worse before they get better," Mr. Gradante said, regarding his outlook for emerging-market hedge fund performance this year.
Until the fundamentals of the economies in Asia, Russia and Latin America begin to mend, further losses are possible, he said.
While Tiger Management's losses were focused on Russia, problems in other emerging markets may start to take their toll on financial service companies.
Yesterday, BankAmerica said it expected to lose at least $330 million in nontrading income in the third quarter. That number includes $220 million of trading losses the bank announced last month. Most of BankAmerica's earlier losses were attributed to Russia, where the bank had reduced its exposure from $412 million to about $100 million. But this time around, some analysts said, the bank's report is more comprehensive and likely includes loan losses in Latin America, where it has more than $33 billion in exposure.
In spite of the declines, BankAmerica said it expected to earn about $500 million in after-tax profit in the third quarter.
BankAmerica declined to give specific details about the losses, "but if you look at where the volatility has been," Latin America would be the "logical conclusion," Joel Silverstein, senior banking analyst at Prudential Securities, said.
After the bank's earlier announcement, Mr. Silverstein lowered his third-quarter earnings estimates to 80 cents a share, from $1.20. He and other analysts are now scrambling to revise the numbers, expecting to lower forecasts even more.
Recently, concern about emerging markets has turned to Brazil, which is plagued with a large budget deficit, interest rates approaching 50 percent and expectations that a currency devaluation may come soon.
Before it began a rally last Thursday, the benchmark Brazilian stock index had fallen 56 percent since Aug. 1. Since Thursday, it has surged 45 percent. Yesterday, Brazilian stocks rose 18.7 percent, posting their biggest one-day gain in more than three years amid expectations that foreign governments would come to its aid.
Despite the Brazilian market's recent gains, analysts still see Latin America as a trouble spot.
"There's a likelihood that other banks with exposure to Latin America could be taking losses as well," Joe Morford, an analyst at Van Kasper & Company in San Francisco, said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 17, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about losses posted by American financial companies from investments in emerging markets misstated the BankAmerica Corporation's loans and investments in Latin America. They total $11.3 billion, not more than $33 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (96%); BAC (LSE) (96%); 8648 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (94%); ASIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TIGER MANAGEMENT LLC; BANKAMERICA CORP; HENNESSEE HEDGE FUND ADVISORY GROUP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (96%); HENNESSEE HEDGE FUND ADVISORY GROUP (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIGER MANAGEMENT LLC; BANKAMERICA CORP; HENNESSEE HEDGE FUND ADVISORY GROUP HENNESSEE HEDGE FUND ADVISORY GROUP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; RUSSIA; LATIN AMERICA; RUSSIA; LATIN AMERICA (94%); ASIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY HEDGE FUNDS (97%); EMERGING MARKETS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TRENDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (74%); BONDS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); DEVALUATION (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R JOEL SILVERSTEIN (61%); CHARLES GRADANTE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



435 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 16, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Rights Official, Back From China, Sees Better Attitude

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 15

 BODY:
At the end of what she called "a successful but not always easy first visit to China," the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, said today that despite continuing human rights abuses, she had sensed among Chinese leaders a new willingness to discuss the country's rights record.
Mrs. Robinson said she had been told by Chinese officials that they were prepared to sign the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights next month. She said the Chinese Government had also signed a letter of understanding with the Human Rights Commission requesting technical assistance in resolving human rights issues. 
 "China has human rights problems, major problems," Mrs. Robinson said at a news conference today in Beijing. But she added, "I was interested in the awareness of and willingness to admit human rights problems among China's leaders."
Mrs. Robinson praised China's willingness to allow the United Nations Human Rights Commission to work in the country, since China has previously rejected what it regarded as outside interference in its internal affairs. "It has to be apparent what a ground-breaking visit this is," she said. "Human rights is not talked about here."
But human rights groups reacted with only cautious optimism, noting that the ultimate success of the Commissioner's visit hinges on whether China's avowed commitment to human rights leads to concrete changes in a country where people are imprisoned without trial and cannot speak out against the Government.
Mike Jendrzeczyk, Washington Director of Human Rights Watch Asia, said the commitments are "a step forward, but what remains to be seen is whether China takes specific actions as a result of the trip." He and others expressed disappointment that Mrs. Robinson had not met with dissidents or their relatives.
Indeed, Mrs. Robinson's 10-day trip was punctuated by poignant reminders of the contradictions in China's human rights policies, where scattered signs of liberalization are often offset by harsh repression.
During the visit, dissidents from two provinces said they had gotten somewhat encouraging signals when they applied for permission to organize an opposition party, an act that had landed dissidents in jail just three month ago. And, at a seminar, Mrs. Robinson heard Chinese lawyers criticize the lack of protection defendants have under Chinese law.
But that same week, officers of Beijing's Public Security Bureau arrested and allegedly beat an imprisoned dissident's wife, Chu Hailan, as she tried to deliver a letter to Mrs. Robinson in her hotel lobby. And a liberal journalist and editor, Shi Binhai, was taken from his home and 10 days later was still being held without explanation or charges.
Such contradiction were not lost on Mrs. Robinson, who said that she had called the Foreign Ministry to demand Ms. Chu's release after she heard about the arrest. Ms. Chu was released that same evening. Mr. Shi's status is still unclear.
Mrs. Robinson said that during her visit she had received a number of faxes, letters and oral messages regarding individual cases. "I have become aware of a number of cases that I will bring up with authorities back in Geneva," she said.
Mrs. Robinson said that in meetings yesterday with President Jiang Zemin and Deputy Prime Minister Qian Qichen she had inquired about the whereabouts of the 9-year-old boy decreed by the Dalai Lama to be the reincarnation of the Panchen Lama, the second-ranking spiritual leader of Tibetan Buddhists. China has said the boy and his parents are under its protection at an undisclosed location, and has selected its own youth as the Panchen Lama.
The Commissioner also urged President Jiang to meet with the Dalai Lama and asked for a review of the sentences of those arrested in connection with the 1989 pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square.
Mrs. Robinson traveled to Beijing and Shanghai, discussing a broad range rights issues, from dissidents to China's justice system to discrimination against women. She also made a brief visit to Tibet, which she characterized as "very restrictive and very difficult, as many opportunities in the country are."
Nonetheless, she defended her work there -- which included passing out copies of the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights in Tibetan at a local school -- as a step in the right direction.
Mrs. Robinson repeatedly said that the main goal of her trip was merely to "start a process of cooperation" and did not say if she had gotten any concrete commitments for change during her lengthy meetings with Chinese leaders.
Many human rights experts say they are anxious for details. While they say they are happy that China has now given a timetable for signing the covenents and has committed to further cooperation with the United Nations, they note that Beijing has not always lived up to such promises.
The International Covenant on Political and Civil Rights, which China plans to sign next month, along with the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which China signed last year, are comprehensive documents protecting rights from freedom of speech to freedom to form trade unions. But China's governing bodies still have to ratify both documents and might try to attach caveats that would blunt their impact, Mr. Jendrzeczyk said.
Some dissidents said that Mrs. Robinson's visit as well as a slight loosening of official policy had already helped their cause.
 "China is beginning to acknowledge the existence of human rights through this visit and through these covenants," said Wang Youcai, a dissident from Hangzhou who was arrested in July for trying to form a political party. "I think the likelihood I'll be re-arrested now is small."
 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 17, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A headline yesterday about a United Nations official's comments about human rights in China misstated her whereabouts at the time. She was in Beijing, not "back from China."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN RIGHTS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA) ; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HUMAN RIGHTS (97%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (86%); ARRESTS (84%); LIBERALISM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (76%); JOURNALISM (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); LIBERAL MEDIA (69%); WRITERS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); 

PERSON: ROBINSON, MARY (COMR); ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH MARY ROBINSON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998



436 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: COUNTRY MUSIC REVIEW;
Old Mountain Music (Black, No Sugar)

BYLINE: By JON PARELES 

 BODY:
Gillian Welch and David Rawlings are a two-member austerity program. At Tramps on Monday night, their songs renounced four decades of pop to revive the Appalachian roots of country music, with concise melodies and stripped-down narratives that make no time for ornament or sentimentality.
Their tunes are waltzes and ballads that sound like variants of Elizabethan tunes, holding on to the irregular structures of rural music. The lyrics are about the staples of old-time mountain music -- hard work, whisky, death and Christian faith -- and rarely reveal they were written in the 1990's. Singing about coal miners in East Tennessee, Ms. Welch distilled the situation to one-syllable basics: "I'm down in a hole/Down in a deep dark hole." 
 The songs are set in places like Alabama or Kansas, but Ms. Welch is no backwoods find. She grew up in California and attended the Berklee School of Music, where she met Mr. Rawlings. Yet the duo is committed to the style of the Carter Family, the Stanley Brothers and the Louvin Brothers, and it honors the nuances of some of the nation's most quietly startling music.
Both performing and on their new album, "Hell Among the Yearlings" (Almo Sounds), the duo sticks to bare bones, limiting even the number of their instruments. Ms. Welch sang lead and played acoustic guitar or banjo; Mr. Rawlings sang harmonies and played all his leads on a 1935 arch-top Epiphone guitar, deftly shifting his technique to make it sound like a mandolin, a Dobro or a flat-picked bluegrass guitar.
The duo also recreated the calm fatalism of old-style singers, who never raised their voices even as they sang about disaster or exaltation. Ms. Welch used the flattened vowels of Appalachia, staying tight-lipped as she sang and allowing herself an occasional quaver, while Mr. Rawlings harmonized like a pale shadow, utterly self-effacing.
Ms. Welch and Mr. Rawlings aren't alone in holding on to the Appalachian style. Folk and bluegrass festivals are full of songwriters who prize its clarity and economy. But most also have a saccharine side, a strain of good-old-days nostalgia that also runs deep in country music. Ms. Welch and Mr. Rawlings are not just skillful and careful songwriters but also purposefully dark, as if based on Depression-era Walker Evans photographs.
In their sepia-toned songs, rural life is little more than toil and trouble in this world and stubborn hope for the next; their backwoods are home to orphans, unglamorous barroom girls and long-suffering addicts. In "Caleb Meyer," a woman kills a would-be rapist with his broken liquor bottle. That extremism is the only thing that betrays them as children of the rock era.
The Spartan approach was less helpful for Richard Buckner, who opened the show playing duets with Eric Heywood on guitar or pedal steel guitar. Mr. Buckner writes songs about isolation, lost loves and roads to nowhere, some artlessly blunt, some more elaborately literary, all depressive. Over his own plain strumming, Mr. Buckner sang in short, gruff phrases and an occasional grunge-rocker's growl. But the stark settings lost the melodic continuity that a band brings to his songs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gillian Welch at Tramps on Monday night. (Amy Elliott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUSIC (92%); COUNTRY MUSIC (91%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); SONG WRITING (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); RECORD RELEASES (73%); CHILDREN (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (57%); COAL MINING (55%); RELIGION (55%); 

PERSON: PARELES, JON; WELCH, GILLIAN; RAWLINGS, DAVID DAVID RAWLINGS (94%); GILLIAN WELCH (94%); RICHARD BUCKNER (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



437 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN PREVIEW '99: INSPIRATION;
A Desert Prophet Wins New Disciples

BYLINE: By FRANCES ANDERTON 

DATELINE: PALM SPRINGS, Calif.

 BODY:
ALBERT FREY hates waste. He sees no need for water-hungry lawns or spacious homes. He lives modestly in a 16-by-32-foot house made of low-maintenance materials that he built for himself 34 years ago. His principle in life and architecture, he explained, is to "do the most with the least."
So why are the young and the affluent drawn to this 94-year-old man living in a space they'd normally consider too small to swing a cat in? Why did Tom Ford of Gucci and the designer Brad Dunning each commission him to design a versatile aluminum guest house? Why is his own house the backdrop for fashion shoots and the subject of a new book? 
 Because Mr. Frey is the embodiment of a minimalist philosophy of life and design that is enjoying a revival by a generation fattened on the go-go 1980's and 90's. Nostalgic for the perceived simplicity of the West Coast modernism of their parents' youth, this generation has put itself on a visual diet.
In the last decade, indifference or even neglect of the spare buildings of pre-World War II and postwar California modernists has been supplanted by a passion for them. Houses by Richard Neutra, R. M Schindler and John Lautner have been flying into the hands of 30- and 40-somethings in entertainment and design. The trend started in Los Angeles but has shifted 110 miles east to Palm Springs, which also boasts a wealth of modern buildings by talented local architects. Thanks to preservationists and fashion magazines, Palm Springs is fast gaining a belated reputation as the Miami Beach of midcentury modernism, in which Mr. Frey is pre-eminent.
"Without Frey there would not be any modernism in Palm Springs," said Anthony Merchell, a Los Angeles-based preservationist and the author of a coming guide to Palm Springs architecture.
These houses of the 40's and 50's were "very beautiful and streamlined and clean," said Ron Radziner, a partner in Marmol & Radziner Architects, which has restored Neutra and Frey houses here. "It's very sad that for a while, a lot of decoration seemed more important," he added.
Why the interest in Mr. Frey? As Jennifer Golub, the director of broadcast production at TBWA Chiat/Day, and author of "Albert Frey/Houses 1 and 2" (Princeton Architectural Press), put it, "Frey is a deeply principled person with so much to teach."
Q UIET, gentle, polite and determined, Mr. Frey lives on a mountain overlooking Palm Springs in a building as spare and lean and elegant as he is. "There's no body fat on the house, and there's no body fat on him," the architect Michael Rotondi, an admirer, remarked.
The house, built in 1964 on a difficult site, is habitat pared down to the barest essentials -- a rectangular, glass-wall shed with a corrugated aluminum roof, in which dining, living and sleeping are all configured in one room around a large boulder, which also provides the lateral bracing.
"It would have been terrible to cut this rock down," Mr. Frey said calmly but emphatically in a German-accented voice. "Its gray granite probably took thousands of years to make this color." He added, "I have very strong opinions about the connection between architecture and nature."
His colors are painterly: yellow curtains to match the encelia plants outside, reddish concrete block to blend with the desert rock. His clothing, pale yellow slacks and sandy desert boots, are part of the composition.
Here you find a man at one with his environment, feeding the lizards, coyotes and a family of quails that show up like favored guests at his door. He does yoga headstands daily, taught to him by one of many women who are his friends.
The Swiss-born Mr. Frey immigrated to the United States in 1930, with the unusual pedigree of having actually worked in the Paris office of Le Corbusier. (He casually remarked that he helped detail the Villa Savoye, one of Le Corbusier's defining buildings.) He hoped to wed the ideals of European modernism to the technology and industrial materials in this country. In partnership with Laurence Kocher, he spent his first few years on the East Coast, exploring ideas about prefabricated houses, the most famous of which is the steel and aluminum Aluminaire House at the New York Institute of Technology in West Islip, N.Y.
His license plate reads "ALUMI," in honor of a material he has loved since he was a child. "My father had a shaving stick in an aluminum tube," he recalled. "I used that to make dishes for my baby sister's doll's house. It doesn't rust. It's easy to work and needs no maintenance."
In 1934, he came to Palm Springs and found a new frontier in the parched desert and mountains. He moved here in 1939 and produced many landmark buildings, including the Palm Springs City Hall, the Palm Springs Aerial Tramway and the Tramway Gas Station, all the while fashioning a modern architecture of organic curves, exposed desert rocks and unadorned exterior surfaces -- an architecture superbly suited to the desert climate and landscape.
His first house, Frey 1, now demolished, started in 1940 as a Miesian pavilion of orthogonal planes and grew more expressionistic with the 1953 addition of aluminum curving walls and a circular tower.
To the eyes of those who do not like the industrial esthetic, Frey House 2, where he lives, is a tin hut. For those that do, it is an exercise in exquisite frugality. Like a Swiss watchmaker, he has combined off-the-shelf materials intricately and cleverly: sliding panels and shelves are made of corrugated glass fiber; a light switch on the boulder has wires cleverly concealed in the rock's fissure; a hanging light is a bulb in a Time-Life globe; outdoor seats are carved in concrete (deck furniture would decay). An extension incorporates a Cor-Ten steel --rather than aluminum -- roof, which can be spot-welded. "Modernism is still in the process of being formed because new products are always being invented," he said.
Mr. Frey's homes are the subject of Ms. Golub's book, an evocative collection of photographs of the houses and their industrial and natural sources of inspiration.
Palm Springs, which prefers Spanish-style architecture, has been less than passionate for his work, allowing the demolition or remodeling of numerous Frey buildings. The city has, however, started to come around, thanks in large part to a revival of international interest, sparked by a 1992 book and traveling exhibition of the architect's work by Joseph Rosa, now chief curator of the National Building Museum in Washington. With the approach of Mr. Frey's 95th birthday, on Oct. 18, preservationists and a developer have joined forces to save the Jetsonian Tramway Gas Station, after a huge battle.
What Mr. Frey and his architecture stand for is an inventive, progressive attitude to life and the environment. So there is an irony in the nostalgia and sentimentality for the futuristic buildings by him and his fellow modernists. In the minds of Le Corbusier and Mies van der Rohe, of Charles and Ray Eames and Albert Frey, modernism was a movement, not a style. It was an all-encompassing social vision in which technology would liberate humanity from dark, hierarchical buildings and lead society into a light and egalitarian world. Even though the buildings never won public acceptance and, then as now, were occupied mainly by design cognoscenti, modernism was not about making a fetish of the home.
Mr. Rosa said that movies, from James Bond films to "L.A. Confidential," and Julius Schulman's black-and-white photographs, have drawn people to the houses. But instead of the "everyday modernism of usability, people are trying to live within the style captured in photos," Mr. Rosa said.
Mr. Dunning, who has produced photo shoots in classic Palm Springs residences, acknowledges the paradox: "Are we in the middle of the revival of a trend, or does this have more longevity?" he asked.
Mr. Frey, who takes delight in the sight of leggy models who drape themselves over his little house, pointed out that modernism "isn't like fashion in clothing." He continued: "Buildings last longer than that. Maybe later on, people discern certain characteristics that they call a style. But I would call it being contemporary."
How has his house withstood the test of time? "It is forever young," he said, a tribute that might apply as well to the sprightly Mr. Frey himself.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FREY 1 -- Albert Frey at his 1941 house, a Miesian composition of horizontal and vertical planes of wood-frame sheathed in metal. An expressionistic 1953 extension, left, added metal curving walls and a circular tower. Innovations include a suspended stairway, fireplace and table, below. COYOTE CORNER -- Built in 1964, Albert Frey's home, Frey 2, above, is a glass-wall shed configured around a boulder: its one room seems to expand into the landscape. (Photographs by Julius Shulman/Princeton Architectural Press); ALBERT FREY -- His buildings are exercises in exquisite frugality. (Charles Wittenmeier/Princeton Architectural Press)(pg. F11); A dapper Albert Frey in his 1941 wood-and-aluminum house. His inventive-ness, economy and finesse with structure and materials are eloquently displayed in a table suspended from a plastic-covered clothesline. (Julius Shulman/Princeton Architectural Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (70%); 

CITY: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (87%); MIAMI, FL, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (70%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (87%); MIAMI, FL, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: DESIGN; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (75%); WRITERS (74%); WORLD WAR II (66%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (64%); 

PERSON: FREY, ALBERT; ANDERTON, FRANCES ALBERT FREY (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



438 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 8; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Helping a Dissonant Psyche Sing

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

PROZAC DIARY
By Lauren Slater
203 pages. Random House. $21.95.
In 1988, at age 26, Lauren Slater lived alone in a sparsely furnished basement apartment in Cambridge, Mass. She was unemployed, having finished college with a spotty record and having dropped out of graduate creative-writing school after one semester. 
 She then held a variety of mostly menial jobs from which she was usually dismissed because her abilities were compromised by a psychopathology involving depression, self-mutilation and suicide attempts that had led to five hospitalizations.
 She suffered from obsessive-compulsive disorder, which was "for me," she writes in her powerful book, "Prozac Diary," "the nattering need to touch, count, check and tap, over and over again."
Ten years later, Ms. Slater was a changed person. She had a master's degree in psychology from Harvard and a doctorate from Boston College, completed in only two years. She was the director of a clinic, Aftercare Services. She had published a book, "Welcome to My Country," about her work with the insane. She taught writing at Goucher College. She was happily married.
Because the transformation in Ms. Slater's life was brought about by Prozac -- prescribed in 1988 to treat her obsessive-compulsive disorder, when the drug was new and little-known -- you would think that her new book, about that experience, would be an unqualified hymn of celebration.
Up to a point it is. Ms. Slater writes eloquently of her remarkably fast reaction to the drug. After a sudden good night's sleep, she awoke finding that "something was different," as if she had been "visited by a blind piano tuner who had crept into my apartment at night, who had tweaked the ivory bones of my body, the taut strings in my skull, and now, when I pressed on myself, the same notes but with a mellower, fuller sound sprang out."
She continues: "Everything seemed to be moving according to a different rhythm, 4/4 now 2/2, a smoothing out or slowing down. It was, to date, the single most stunning experience of my life, although later it would unfold with ever more complexity, even danger." She concludes, "Somehow, my attention had become flexible, swiveling left, now right, with such ease it made me giddy."
But her praise is very far from unqualified. She treats the drawbacks of Prozac with expressiveness. First, the obvious ones: what her pharmacologist calls "Prozac poop-out," which caused her to "crack up" again after a year, while on a research trip to Kentucky, and forced her to increase her dosage, although "Prozac never again made me as well as it once had."
And she writes of her loss of libido and sexual dysfunction, describing physical relations with her husband: "Boredom is diffuse and psychological. I am not at all bored by Bennett, but it is as though I have been bored into by something else, injected with Novocain at a very specific spot. I want to weep."
But what makes her book most worthwhile is her discussion of the subtler perils of Prozac: for instance, her pain at having to give up what she calls the "illness identity" she had made for herself, "a story of self that had illness as its main motive." She found her drive to write diminished; the voices in her head fell silent. "I can't get anything really creative done in this state," she complained to her doctor. "Well," he replied, "you are not getting as many crises done. You are not accomplishing as many hospitalizations."
So Ms. Slater never stopped doubting the drug. She worried about being addicted and dependent. She worried that without her sexuality, she could not possibly be in touch with her essential self. She tried to embrace the post-modern notion that no real self truly exists, but she found that she could never believe this.
"So. There it is," she writes. "Here I am. Or here I am not. The difference really matters to me. Probably, despite the trends in our universities, it matters to a lot of people. It could be that many people will continue to believe in bedrock or, better yet, to believe in the importance of the search. The search for the genuine. The gem."
Yet despite her doubts, she was unable to give up the drug by the time she completed her book. "I always break up. Maybe not at first. There have been a few weeks, even once more than a month, when I soared through space and saw the stars as peaceful. But each time, eventually, there's a little splitting sound and then a big kaboom, and the wreckage is a mess."
This leaves the reader with the sense of a void about Ms. Slater's future, which is particularly distressing because her book is so involving. It must surely be among the best ones available on the long-term effects of the drug, even superior to Peter Kramer's landmark "Listening to Prozac."
You are left feeling the way Ms. Slater must have felt about her future husband's strange expression of love when they were first getting to know each other. A chemist by profession, he brought her a rose one evening, saying, "For you." But when she reached for it, he withdrew it, dipped it in liquid nitrogen he had brought with him and "pulled back out a frozen flower, a glassed-in growth, color and form perfectly preserved."
When she expressed wonder at it, he said: "We're not through. I love you. We will never be through."
"And with that," she writes, "he bowed, smiled, and hurled my rose at the wall, whereupon, after a perfect click of contact, it broke into hundreds of icy beads.
"Hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen.
"So damn easy to deconstruct.
"And yet the beads were beautiful, flakes of snow, scarlet hail."
So is the chemistry of "Prozac Diary" beautiful. If only you could trust that its elements might melt into a soul.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lauren Slater (John Blanding/Random House).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PROZAC DIARY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON COLLEGE (56%); BOSTON COLLEGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (56%); BOSTON COLLEGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); DEPRESSION (79%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); CREATIVE WRITING (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (76%); SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION (75%); LITERATURE (74%); SUICIDE (71%); PHARMACOLOGY (71%); OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); 

PERSON: SLATER, LAUREN; LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER LAUREN SLATER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



439 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Beware Primakov

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The man the Russian Parliament forced President Yeltsin to name Prime Minister is a former K.G.B. agent, a friend of dictators in Iraq and Serbia, and an enemy of the West.
Yevgeny Primakov made it to the top because he was every power center's second choice. They all see this cagey spymaster as a transitional figure easily replaced after the worst is over. They may all be wrong. 
 The Soviet Union had three power centers: the Communist Party, the K.G.B. and the Red Army. In Russia today, there are still three: (1) the oligarchs who stole the state's assets through corrupt privatization and socked away billions outside the country; (2) what's left of the Communist Party, supported by elderly pensioners, and (3) democratic reformers, many appointed and then scapegoated by the weakened Yeltsin.
Last spring the oligarchs directed Yeltsin to fire their own man, Prime Minister Chernomyrdin, who for five years had condoned their stealing of the state's assets. In went a reformist unknown, wet behind the ears, to take the fall for the inescapable devaluation and default. After that victim did his duty, the oligarchs told Yeltsin to put back Chernomyrdin.
But the Communists in Parliament would not go along. They threatened Yeltsin with impeachment and dared him to dissolve the Duma by pressing three times for the oligarchs' choice.
At this point, assuming the Communists would do well in parliamentary elections, the last of those reformers left standing -- Grigory Yavlinsky, head of the Yabloko party in Parliament and untainted by association with failed Yeltsin policies -- proposed Primakov as prime minister.
I reached Yavlinsky by telephone in Moscow to ask: Are you guys out of your minds? When Russia most needs the West, you put in a lifelong enemy of freedom? When Russia's economy most needs the price of its oil exports to go up, you put in the man who wants to get Iraqi production flowing to save Saddam and bring on an oil glut? When Russia most needs the rule of law and private property, you bring in a veteran Communist with no understanding of free enterprise?
"This was a painful compromise," he explained. "Primakov was the only one Yeltsin and the Communists could agree on. I have no deal with him." That turns out to be true; as Primakov surrounded himself with Gorbachev-era Communists, Yavlinsky turned down the offer of a deputy prime minister's post.
Yavlinsky's rationale is that Primakov has promised (1) not to use force in Chechnya; (2) to soothe the West with ratification of Start 2, and (3) to follow the Constitution in organizing elections. Averting civil war, he says, is not nothing.
After the years of ripoff by the crony capitalists, the pendulum of Russian public opinion has swung leftward. Capitalism never had a chance without courts to enforce contracts and cops to stop corruption, but the criminal oligarchy has left capitalism in disrepute and reduced most trade to barter.
In this angry atmosphere, Yavlinsky puts the protection of political freedom ahead of the adoption of sensible economic policies. "This is temporary," he insists, "and somebody has to be in office to protect the nukes and see to it we have free elections."
That's his case for Primakov, and we'll be hearing more of the same stabilizing stuff from his Manila dance partner, Secretary Madeleine Albright. But I wonder.
Here we see the oligarchs in bed with Marxist economists who promise to protect bankrupt enterprises and print inflationary money. Remaining democratic reformers hope that the ensuing disaster will be blamed on the lefties in the Duma elections next year and elections for the presidency the year after.
That's wishful thinking. Primakov will take Russia toward more state economic control, which is only a step away from central political control. The old K.G.B. hand knows how to squeeze the oligarchs to make their media support him. Transition is not his ambition.
Should we bail out Primakov's ailing Russia? The Czech President, Vaclav Havel, offered a sage comment to the Clinton claque of applauding bureaucrats at their joint news conference yesterday: "Better an ill Russia than a healthy Soviet Union."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); IRAQ (93%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNIST PARTY (82%); RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT (68%); K G B (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNIST PARTY (82%); RUSSIAN PARLIAMENT (68%); K G B (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); IRAQ (93%); SERBIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ARMIES (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); ESPIONAGE (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); DEVALUATION (52%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; PRIMAKOV, YEVEGNY (PRIME MIN); YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) VIKTOR CHERNOMYRDIN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



440 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
YEN FALLS FOR THIRD DAY. Japan's currency weakened as traders bought dollars on indications that no coordinated global interest rate reduction was being planned. The dollar rose to 134.90 yen in New York from 133.90.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since March 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (91%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



441 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Shake-Up Set At Struggling Toys 'R' Us

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY 

 BODY:
Toys "R" Us, the toy retailer that has been struggling because of increased competition, said yesterday that it planned to revamp its business, close 90 stores, eliminate up to 3,000 jobs and take $495 million in after-tax charges.
Under the direction of its new chief executive, Robert C. Nakasone, Toys "R" Us has been attempting for more than a year to jump-start sales and increase profitability as it faces stepped-up competition from discount chains like Wal-Mart. The company is also searching for ways to please harried parents who are tired of navigating its mammoth, and often dated, stores. 
 The reorganization is also intended to improve cash flow and increase operating earnings by more than $75 million next year and by a greater amount thereafter.
Investors reacted skeptically to the changes, however. The company's shares closed at $18.125, down 75 cents.
The company will close 50 international Toys "R" Us stores, mainly in Europe, 9 stores in this country and 31 domestic Kids "R" Us apparel stores. In addition, the retailer said it would take $281 million in pretax charges to pare inventory, $29 million to close or consolidate stores and distribution centers and to eliminate administrative functions and $102 million for accounting changes. Toys "R" Us will take the charges in the third quarter, which ends Oct. 31.
In addition to the store closings and charges, Toys "R" Us, which is based in Paramus, N.J., said it would redesign its remaining stores into a format that would enable the company to increase its products. The new stores will include an expanded electronics department to appeal to older children, a discount section where parents can get bargain-priced birthday and holiday toys and a clothing section for those looking for one-stop shopping.
"We still don't know the most important thing we need to know, how will these C-3 stores perform," Ursula Moran, an analyst who follows the company for Sanford C. Bernstein, said. C-3, which stands for customer driven, cost effective and a concept for the future, is the code name Toys "R" Us coined for its new store format.
Ms. Moran said that the company had announced a new store design, huge charges and inventory reductions when it ran into trouble in the past, leaving her less impressed this time out. "The company has got a credibility problem to some degree," she said, adding that the latest inventory reduction seems ill timed.
"I'm a little worried about their lobbing out lots of markdown inventory at the start of the holiday season simply because that could provoke a competitive response that might not be so pretty," she said.
About 200 of the company's domestic stores will be converted to the new format next year with the remaining being upgraded within two years. After the consolidation, Toys "R" Us will operate 1,403 stores and 183 Kids "R" Us stores and will eliminate its two Kidsworld stores by folding them into existing toy stores.
The initial phase of the company's revamping has already produced $370 million in inventory reductions this year in United States stores open more than a year, the company said. The new concept and additional inventory reduction, which is necessary to enable stores to accommodate new products, will improve merchandise planning and distribution techniques and allow further improvements in inventory turns in coming years, the company added.
"These actions will be the springboard to implementing our expanded vision for the future, which is to provide not only toys but also to provide our customers with broader merchandise offerings and services for kids and families," Mr. Nakasone said. Mr. Nakasone replaced Michael Goldstein seven months ago.
In the most recent quarter, ended Aug. 1, revenues inched up just 1.6 percent, to $2.02 billion, while earnings before a charge decreased 57 percent, to $15.9 million, or 6 cents a diluted share, from $36.7 million, or 13 cents a diluted share, in the corresponding period a year earlier.
Analyst said the restructuring announced yesterday had been anticipated, so investors were not caught off guard by unexpected bad news. As for the size of the charges, they "cover a multitude of sins," said David S. Leibowitz, an analyst who follows the company for Burnham Securities. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TOY (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (90%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (90%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (70%); UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: TOYS 'R' US INC; WAL-MART STORES INC TOYS 'R' US INC (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOYS 'R' US INC; WAL-MART STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (70%); UNITED STATES (69%); NEW JERSEY, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: TOYS; FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; DISCOUNT SELLING HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (91%); TOYS & GAMES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CASH FLOW (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (66%); 

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA ROBERT C NAKASONE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



442 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The Fed can insulate the U.S. from much of the global crisis.

BYLINE: By Michael M. Weinstein 

 BODY:
FIRST Asia. Then Russia. Now Latin America. There are days when it seems that America might soon be the only economy standing upright.
When financial crisis struck Asia 14 months ago, it seemed a long way away and, besides, the United States economy was roaring along. When Russia fell into a financial abyss recently, America did not see much of a threat from the collapse of such a tiny economy. But now, Brazil, the ninth-largest economy in the world, is reeling. Argentina, Venezuela and Mexico may be close behind. 
 Chaos south of the border is scary. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, thinks so, and he is hardly known for hysterics. He recently observed that with a quarter of the world's population hit by recession "it's just not credible that the United States can remain an oasis of prosperity."
Perhaps. But there are two reasons to believe that Mr. Greenspan is exaggerating the threat. Latin America's predicament is not as grave as Asia's. An even better reason to think Mr. Greenspan might be wrong is Mr. Greenspan himself. As head of the Fed, he can insulate the economy from all but the most extreme collapse of foreign economies.
The news from Latin America has been bleak. Stock markets in the region have fallen more than 40 percent this year and Colombia and Ecuador have devalued their currencies this month. The core of the problem, as in Asia, is pessimism by investors whose initial jitters grow into outright panic. Once investors begin to question whether Brazil or Argentina will run out of dollar reserves or devalue, they flee -- cashing in their investments before someone else beats them to the dwindling reserves or before devaluation slices the dollar value of their assets. Capital flight feeds on itself as shrinking reserves reinforce the notion that the original jitters were warranted.
Brazil could indeed become the next international disaster. Its fiscal deficit exceeds 7 percent of total output, and its high exchange rate has driven its exports, as a portion of total economic output, lower than nearly anywhere else in the world. The excesses leave Brazil vulnerable to capital flight. To prop up its currency, Brazil has spent billions of dollars over recent months and has raised interest rates above 40 percent.
Then comes contagion. Argentina sells 30 percent of its exports to Brazil. If Brazil devalues its currency, as expected, Argentina's exports could become prohibitively expensive in Brazil. That would leave Argentina with fewer dollars, perhaps inciting investors to bolt.
Though Latin America is teetering, there is good reason to predict that it will not topple like Asia. Capital flight and currency depreciation bankrupted many Asian companies because they had borrowed heavily abroad. A company that sells its product for won but borrows in dollars is pummeled when the won drops in value. As Prof. Peter Kenen of Princeton points out, companies in Latin America have borrowed less foreign money than their Asian counterparts and should be better positioned to survive currency devaluations.
There is a raging debate under way about the best way for the United States and its allies to help Latin America snuff out financial chaos before it festers. But however bad the impending crisis turns out to be, it will almost certainly be a manageable problem for the United States.
Each year, the United States exports about $900 billion in goods and services, or about 12 percent of total economic output. Of that, about 20 percent goes to Central and South America. Suppose those exports fell by 15 percent or so. That would amount to less than a 1 percent cut in total spending in the United States -- hardly noticeable. Indeed, even if worldwide financial crises cut exports by 15 percent across the board, the blow to the economy would amount to less than 2 percent of total spending.
But the Fed is not, in the memorable words of Oliver North's lawyer before a Congressional panel, a potted plant. It can react if exports dry up. With low inflation and a strong dollar, nothing stops the Fed from increasing the money supply.
The Fed's problem gets trickier if foreign investors dump stocks on Wall Street and if American investments abroad sour. Fill in any reasonable number, Professor Kenen concludes, and the Fed can cushion the effect on jobs and living standards. As long as countries do not let their banking systems collapse, the Fed can protect domestic jobs.
That said, the Fed cannot know how big a problem Latin America could create for the domestic economy. Nor does it know how to counteract the blow with precision. After all, setting monetary policy today requires looking 18 months or so into the future.
But even though the Fed cannot stabilize the economy perfectly, most experts believe that that Fed can almost surely prevent the domestic economy from foundering -- something that happened in the 1930's because of persistent mismanagement by the Fed policy. It knows better today.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Niculae Asciu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (96%); ASIA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); MEXICO (79%); ECUADOR (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM APCO ARGENTINA INC (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (96%); ASIA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); MEXICO (79%); ECUADOR (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (86%); RECESSION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); EXCHANGE RATES (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); TRENDS (64%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



443 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 163 words

HEADLINE: Host Marriott Services Outlook

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: BETHESDA, Md., Sept. 16

 BODY:
The Host Marriott Services Corporation said today that its third-quarter and full-year earnings will be disappointing, as fewer travelers from Asia and the pilots' strike at Northwest Airlines hurt its airport duty-free retail business.
The company, which also operates food, beverage and retail concessions at roadside travel plazas and shopping malls, said it expects third-quarter earnings of about 50 cents to 51 cents a diluted share. Last year it earned 52 cents. Host Marriott, which was spun off in 1995 from the Host Marriott Corporation, the hotel owner, will report earnings on Oct. 5. Its quarter ended last Friday. 
 Jake Fuller, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, had an estimate of 56 cents a share for Host Marriott's quarter.
Sales at its duty-free shops in key airports in the United States fell as a slumping Asian economy reduced travel from the region, Host Marriott Services said. The shares fell $1.1875 today, or 10 percent, to $10.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HST (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: HOST MARRIOTT SERVICES CORP HOST HOTELS & RESORTS INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOST MARRIOTT SERVICES CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES AIRLINES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); STRIKES (88%); HOTELS & MOTELS (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



444 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Dow Moves 65.39 Higher in Its Fourth Straight Advance

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
A late surge lifted stocks to their fourth straight advance yesterday, the first since June, as traders and investors welcomed President Clinton's statement that he would not resign and shrugged off disappointment that Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, offered no fresh hope of a cut in interest rates.
Testifying before the House Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan asserted that there was currently "no endeavor to coordinate interest-rate cuts" at a time when "deflationary forces are continuing to emerge." 
 The Dow Jones industrial average finished with a gain of 65.39 points, or eight-tenths of a percent, at 8,089.78, pulling still further away from the brink of a defined bear market with which it has recently flirted.
Other major American gauges also rose, as did those in Europe and Hong Kong. But Brazil's Bovespa index shed 2.11 percent following its huge, 18.68 percent rebound on Tuesday.
"There's been a return of some sanity there," said Lisa Cullen, a Merrill Lynch strategist, referring to Brazil and other countries in Latin America. "That's soothed the nerves of investors."
Telebras, the newly privatized Brazilian phone company, which is a marker for technology stocks generally, traded as high as 80 before closing at 71 15/16, down 3/16.
The Dow, which was up about 50 points at the start of the 1 P.M. appearance by Mr. Greenspan and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, promptly lost its gain and then drifted into negative territory until the upswing of the final half-hour.
"The market had been expecting some Greenspan-Rubin comments that didn't materalize," said Bill Schneider, head of block trading at Warburg Dillon Read in Stamford, Conn. "But the selling exhausted itself, and buyers came back."
Two Internet stocks were among the day's biggest winners, with Amazon.com soaring 11 1/2, to 84 1/2, and Yahoo, which is to replace MCI in the Nasdaq 100 index, up 9, to 93 3/8. Motorola climbed 3 5/16, to 47 1/4, after announcing it would halt work on a new semiconductor plant in Virginia.
Among the Dow industrials, Eastman Kodak was up 2 15/16, to 84 3/4,to contribute most to the gain while Searswas the biggest loser, down 1 3/16, to 47.
But once again a major blue chip -- Gillette this time -- was hammered when it warned of weaker results. Gillette, a stellar growth company, said sales were suffering in the third quarter and watched its shares tumble 4 13/16, to 40 3/16.
Rising stocks on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered falling ones by a margin of about 3 to 2, with 30 issues making new highs and 151 falling to new lows.
The Standard & Poor's 500 rose 7.80 points, to 1,045.48, or 75-hundredths of 1 percent, while the Nasdaq Composite rose 11.80, or seven-tenths of 1 percent, to 1,689.91.
Although many in the market still expect the Fed to cut short-term interest rates, perhaps in concert with other central banks to keep turmoil in emerging markets from setting off a global downturn, others are skeptical that rate cuts would be effective medicine.
Kenneth Safian, president of Safian Investment Research, contended that fiscal rather than monetary tools should be used against what he called "overdone disinflation." Citing ample current liquidity, he suggested a tax cut, perhaps on dividends.
After treading water much of the day yesterday ahead of testimony by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, before the House Banking Committee, Treasury bonds advanced.
After the testimony failed to clarify future monetary policy, the stock market weakened on disappointment, and bonds climbed as some investors sought the haven of the Government securities market.
The 30-year bond increased 17/32, to a price of 104 7/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, slipped to 5.22 percent, from 5.25 percent on Tuesday. Most other maturities were mixed.
Gerald A. Guild, senior vice president of the taxable fixed-income department at Advest Inc., said: "I think the Fed will continue a neutral stance and follow the market rather than lead it. I expect the long bond yield to decline below 5 percent."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since May. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) Another graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since September 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TELB3 (BOVESPA) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (53%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); TELECOMUNICACOES BRASILEIRAS SA (TELEBRAS) (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (53%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); HOUSE BANKING COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP HOUSE BANKING COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (95%); BONDS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DEFLATION (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); STOCK INDEX CHANGES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (50%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



445 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
InvestorsShrug Off Talk of Global Rate Cut

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
American investors shrugged off yesterday's suggestion that no global interest rate cut was immediately in store to help the world's weak economies.
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, appeared to shut the door on such a move when he told the House Banking Committee that "at the moment there is no endeavor to coordinate interest rate cuts." 
 Still, the Dow Jones industrial average finished the day 65 points higher. Just over a week ago, the stock market had soared on Mr. Greenspan's suggestion that global financial problems posed as great a threat to the United States as inflation did, suggesting that a rate cut to stimulate the economy might be on the horizon.
It is possible, though, that the already struggling emerging markets will falter on the suggestion that help is not immediately on the way. Brazil's stock market, which rallied 45 percent in three days on hopes of a global rate cut and the promise of international aid, eased after Mr. Greenspan's remarks, ending the day down 2.11 percent. Investors also pushed United States Treasury prices up and yields lower, signaling a continued flight to safety and concern about the outlook for equity markets.
But based on one gauge of sentiment, the delay of a global rate cut was no surprise to many investors. That gauge is the futures contracts on the Federal funds rate. The contract "naturally embodies the market's expectation of what the Fed will do," according to a study by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. The Federal funds rate, or the rate banks charge each other on overnight loans, is the central bank's target for short-term interest rates.
All week, the price on the Fed funds futures contract fell. That indicated a rise in the yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price. As of Friday, the yield for the October contract was 5.25 percent. Because that yield represents the expected average for the month and because the next rate-setting meeting of the Federal Reserve is on Sept. 29, it presaged a cut of one-quarter of a percentage point in the Federal funds target from the current 5.5 percent level, according to Dana Saporta, an economist with Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in Princeton, N.J.
But by the end of trading yesterday on the Chicago Board of Trade, the yield had risen to 5.34 percent, meaning that investors see a smaller probability of a rate cut at the September meeting.
This does not mean that they do not expect a rate cut at all. They do, and that is reflected in the futures contracts for later months. The yield on the December contract is down to 5.21 percent, and was as low as 5.14 percent last Thursday.
The indicator now seems to suggest that a rate cut must await two events: the meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank early next month and a worsening of the current crisis. If financial markets stabilize, there might be no rate cut in the near future -- which would presumably push the yields on these futures contracts even higher.
Investors now have to reconsider what is meant by global coordination -- which are likely to be buzzwords for some time. Just because President Clinton and other leaders in the Group of Seven industrial nations recently talked of "ways to respond to the challenges now facing the international financial system," they are not yet springing into action. Rather, world political and financial leaders are merely reassuring investors that they are keeping a close eye on the crisis.
The lack of an automatic safety net was one of the harsh lessons from the Russian economy's recent deep troubles, but that may not have fully sunk in yet.
The shift in sentiment about the prospects of a rate cut can be attributed to several causes. Investors tend to overreact to any news, whether positive or negative. That was the case with Mr. Greenspan's speech at Berkeley, Calif., on Sept. 4. He did not promise a rate cut then; he just suggested that the central bank would consider one if the foreign drag on the United States economy worsened.
Some other officials have also thrown cold water on the idea of a coordinated global cut in interest rates. The president of the German central bank, Hans Tietmeyer, said on Tuesday that there was no immediate rate cut under consideration, adding that lower rates now would be the wrong medicine for Europe.
Gordon Brown, the British Chancellor of the Exchequer, said any coordinated moves by the Group of Seven -- which besides the United States includes Japan, Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada -- would not come before the twice-a-year meeting of the I.M.F. and the World Bank. He did not rule out a rate cut, though, when he said that the Group of Seven is "fully focused on the need to maintain demand growth in the current environment."
Lastly, a rate cut by the Federal Reserve is still likely to be weighed domestically, rather than globally, with the key being the strength of the American economy.
William Poole, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said yesterday that "if the financial turmoil in the world threatens to depress the U.S. economy, then adjustment of U.S. monetary policy is appropriate, and the Fed will make that adjustment when the case for it is clear."
And it is worth remembering that the Fed futures contracts merely reflect investor sentiment. They are not great predictors of Fed action. According to the St. Louis Fed report, the Federal fund futures forecast only about one-third of the changes in rate policy from August 1988 through 1997. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (82%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CME GROUP INC (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (65%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



446 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Political Squabbling Snags a Financial Overhaul in Japan

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 16

 BODY:
Days before Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi leaves for a visit to the United States, hopes are dwindling for a passage this week of a landmark series of bills to stabilize Japan's financial system.
The bills have been the focus of global attention, because they are seen as a litmus test of the Obuchi Government's ability to confront Japan's mammoth economic problems. Mr. Obuchi had hoped to have them passed by the time he met President Clinton next Tuesday, for talks on the global financial crisis. 
 But he has been unable to work out a deal with opposition parties, which control the upper house of Parliament. In fact, the opposition is now challenging the Government's entire approach to overhauling the financial system.
All this has left American officials, who very much want Japan to get on with the task of stabilizing its system, increasingly impatient with the stalemate in Parliament.
In Washington today, Secretary of the Treasury Robert E. Rubin told the House Banking Committee, "Clearly swift, strong fiscal action that will give a substantial and sustained stimulus to the economy, and sufficient immediate measures to strengthen the financial system, are urgently needed for Japan."
Naoto Kan, leader of the Democratic Party, the main opposition group, has basically swept aside the governing party's draft proposals. Instead, he and his partners in the other opposition parties have folded their ideas into a broad proposal, and that seems to have become the basis for the latest negotiations.
Indeed, a growing possibility is that the Liberal Democrats will be forced to abandon their legislation and rewrite large pieces of it in order to win agreement.
Each party, naturally, is blaming the other for the delays.
"There is no more time for the L.D.P. and the Government to cling to face-saving tactics," Mr. Kan said at a news conference today. "They should give priority to responding quickly to the emergency."
The emergency Mr. Kan referred to is the deepening recession, the eroding balance sheets of the largest banks and the huge quantity of bad debt that is crimping lending and crippling companies. Taichi Sakaiya, head of the Economic Planning Agency, said today that the economy was likely to contract this fiscal year by well over 1 percent.
The political squabbling has focused on how to handle the foundering Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, one of the nation's largest financial institutions. The opposition groups say the bank is insolvent, while the Liberal Democrats maintain that it is solvent and want to save it through a merger with the stronger Sumitomo Trust and Banking Company.
The stalemate is so severe that even as the markets clamor for a rapid resolution of the nation's financial uncertainty, politicians are discussing the possibility of scrapping a program set up in February that provides 13 trillion yen, or nearly $100 billion, to increase the capital of ailing banks. The opposition demands that the Government drop the plan, under which the Deposit Insurance Corporation, Japan's version of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, spent nearly two trillion yen, or about $15 billion, at the end of March buying stakes in the country's biggest banks.
It also demands that a bridge bank proposal, centerpiece of a plan to clean up bad debts, be cast aside for a program to deal with Japan's very large, very shaky banks. It calls for nationalization of large insolvent banks, the stiffening of financial disclosure rules and the establishment of a committee to oversee the process apart from the Finance Ministry, which it says has lost credibility with the markets.
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, a key figure among Liberal Democrats, was pivotal in drawing up plans to use tax money to bail out the banks. The opposition's demand to scrap this mechanism is embarrassing for Mr. Miyazawa and could therefore be politically difficult for the Liberal Democrats.
Motohisa Furukawa, a member of Parliament from the Democratic Party and a key negotiator, said that the governing party would either have to accept the opposition plan -- humiliating Mr. Miyazawa -- or accept further delays. "It's now a matter of political decision," he said in an interview today.
The share price of the Long-Term Credit Bank has been pummeled this week, cut nearly in half to a record low. Last month, the bank announced a broad restructuring arrangement and said that in the six-month period ending Sept. 30, it would incur write-offs and other costs totaling 750 billion yen, now about $5.6 billion. The opposition argues that those write-offs should have been taken in the previous fiscal year, which ended on March 31. The bank says those charges became urgent only recently.
If last year's financial statements are revised to account for that charge, the equity capital of the Long-Term Credit Bank falls to nearly zero. Even under the bank's current projections, its equity capital will be only 6 percent of assets at risk, a figure that falls short of the capital-adequacy requirement of 8 percent set forth by the Bank for International Settlements in Geneva.
The Liberal Democrats have argued that allowing the Long-Term Credit Bank, which has 25 trillion yen in assets, or $185 billion, to fail would create turmoil in the financial system. The opposition argues that such an impact is exaggerated.
"The worst scenario would be one in which L.T.C.B. fails and there is a great impact in the worldwide market and a very big impact on the world economy," said Masaru Takagi, an economics professor at Meiji University. "But I think that this is only a fear. It's not the truth."
An American mutual fund that invests in distressed assets and owns a large stake in the bank, Third Avenue Value Fund, has filed a complaint in United States District Court in Manhattan against the bank, its top directors, and Sumitomo Trust and Banking. In its restructuring plan, Long-Term Credit said it would forgive debt worth 520 billion yen, or $3.9 billion, to three affiliates. The fund contends that this has hurt the bank's shareholders and threatens its solvency.
And in a further sign of financial disarray, Standard & Poor's today lowered its outlook on four other large Japanese banks to negative from stable. They are Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, the Industrial Bank of Japan, Sanwa Bank and Fuji Bank. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (61%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (61%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (61%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: SUMITOMO MITSUI TRUST BANK LTD (61%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATS (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATS (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); TRENDS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: OBUCHI, KEIZO (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WUDUNN, SHERYL NAOTO KAN (77%); BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



447 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGE FOOTBALL: Army Marching on a Different Wavelength;
Joining Conference USA Brings More Television Exposure and Revenue From Bowls

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE 

DATELINE: WEST POINT, N.Y., Sept. 15

 BODY:
It has played football for 108 years, 1,011 games in all against teams from across the nation. It maintains a narrow edge over Navy in one of the oldest and most resonant rivalries in college sports. But the history of Army football takes a modern turn Saturday when a pair of teams without a victory square off at Michie Stadium.
When Army (0-1) faces Cincinnati (0-2) here, the Black Knights will turn the page on more than a century as an independent to compete in their first game as the newest member of Conference USA. 
 It is the beginning of an era when Fox Sports Net, new rivals such as Southern Mississippi and post-season games like the Liberty Bowl will become part of Army lore along with Glenn Davis and the Commander-in-Chief's Trophy. In the view of Army athletic officials, it is vital to remaining in the mainstream of big-time college football.
"This shows our commitment to playing Division I-A football," said Al Vanderbush, Army's athletic director. "We were playing a couple of Division I-AA schools and getting criticized for it. Other schools were using it to recruit against us. This makes us more competitive, gives us an identity, and I believe kids today would like to look up and see there is a conference championship to play for and an all-conference team to make."
More important, beyond just survival, it shifts Army's focus to getting a greater share of the millions of television dollars flowing into college football. Besides a competitive schedule and the promise of bowl games, Army now gets a marketing outfit -- the conference -- dedicated to making it network- and cable-ready.
Army is not alone in trying to reposition itself in an increasingly competitive race for television dollars and bowl payouts. Last May, the presidents of eight Western universities, including Air Force, stunned the college athletic community when they announced they were leaving the Western Athletic Conference to form their own league.
They cited everything from unmanageable travel -- the conference stretched from Hawaii to Houston -- to the dilution of geographical rivalries. But the fact that television and bowl money did not stretch far when divided by 16 teams was perhaps the clincher.
Even Notre Dame, the only major power among the eight remaining Division I-A independents, which has its own five-year, $45 million television contract with NBC, is talking to Big Ten officials about joining the conference to insure economic health and stability.
Just as in professional sports, the driving factor in this climate of change is television money. The Big Ten commissioner, James E. Delany, estimates the annual market for college football television rights at $300 million and growing.
In the new Bowl Championship Series that ABC will televise, for example, the title game will be worth from $11 million to $12 million a team.
Jon D. Litner, senior vice president for programming at ABC Sports, says that like the makers of soft drinks, schools are "fighting for shelf space" and are turning to high-quality marketing and aggressive representation.
"There's an enormous amount of revenue that television generates," Litner said. "I'm sure schools are making decisions on who they affiliate with because of television." ABC, along with ESPN -- also under the Disney umbrella -- is the biggest player in college football and will broadcast 21 of 26 post-season games.
Conference USA, in its third year of existence, offered Army access it did not previously have to a television contract and two bowl games. It also offered a schedule of mid-major Southern universities with which academy officials believed a school of 4,000 cadets -- none on true athletic scholarships -- could compete. The conference is composed of Cincinnati, Tulane, Memphis, Louisville, Houston, Southern Miss and East Carolina, and its champion earns an automatic berth in the Liberty Bowl, which last year had a $1.1 million payout per team.
In addition, the Humanitarian Bowl in Boise, Idaho, will hold a place for another Conference USA team, worth an additional $750,000 to each team. And the conference's deal with Fox Sports Net pays immediate dividends in exposure -- five Army games are scheduled to be televised this season and the number could reach nine. Last year, three Army games were televised, including the Navy game.
"The television and bowl opportunities are attached exclusively to the conferences anymore," said Army Coach Bob Sutton. "The independents out there don't really have a voice. We have a broad recruiting base in the South that we're going to reach more effectively. Every game is going to mean something in the conference standings. Kids are going to see us more and we'll be validated as a program."
The athletic budget at Army is $15 million, of which $3 million comes from the Government, primarily to cover salaries. Revenue from football carries the academy's 25 other athletic teams. Vanderbush said attendance and concessions at Army's home games, television contracts and donations connected to the football program account for the vast majority of the remaining $12 million. Army will continue to play Air Force and Navy for the Commander-in-Chief's trophy and, in an essential piece of deal making, did not give up its television rights for the annual classic against the Midshipmen.
The Army-Navy game, recently renewed by CBS through 2008, is among the most lucrative in college sports. The previous contract was worth $1 million a year for both Army and Navy, which remains an independent, and Vanderbush said that had increased significantly, although he would not give a figure.
Vanderbush, the Army athletic director, said that the Conference USA affiliation is initially worth an additional $300,000 to $400,000 a year to Army, though the windfall is largely offset this year because the Black Knights lost a home game in the switch to the conference schedule.
Conference USA is part of the Bowl Championship Series, but is guaranteed a place in only one of the four big-money games -- Fiesta, Rose, Sugar or Orange -- if one of its teams finishes No. 6 or higher in the series' ranking. Still, the conference receives $800,000 this year just for being a part of the series, according to Mike Slive, the conference's commissioner.
Slive said flatly that Army would make more money in Conference USA than it would have as an independent. In turn, he said, the other schools in the conference have acquired a valuable commodity to bolster their status in the marketplace.
"We get its storied tradition and great football history, which helps our name recognition," Slive said. "Contracts and governance are conference-driven. The revenues are market-driven. Our goal is to be at the table and be ready to move up and take our share."
Vanderbush said that the role of athletic director had evolved from that of administrator to that of businessman and entrepreneur. That thought was echoed by athletic directors at places like Southern Methodist, Texas Christian, Rice and the five other universities who were divorced by their higher-profile mates in the W.A.C. and retain the name of their conference but little else.
Roy Kramer, the longtime commissioner of the powerful Southeastern Conference, anticipates more conference realignment. Fortunately for Army, it has made its move.
"My athletic directors can divide," Kramer said. "And unless you have something valuable to bring, conferences may get smaller before they get bigger."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joe Benson, a senior tight end, leading Army through the line of cadets for the home opener, a 14-13 nonconference loss to Miami of Ohio last Saturday. (pg. D1); Coach Bob Sutton, center, says joining Conference USA will allow Army to reach its prospects more effectively and to be "validated as a program." (pg. D4) (Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (WEST POINT, NY) FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (84%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (84%); MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OHIO) (59%); MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OHIO) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (WEST POINT, NY) UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (84%); UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (84%); MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OHIO) (59%); MIAMI UNIVERSITY (OHIO) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; TELEVISION COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); ARMIES (91%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); SPORTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); AIR FORCES (68%); 

PERSON: DRAPE, JOE

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



448 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Steps Planned By Magazine To Lift Profit

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
The Reader's Digest Association said yesterday that it would cut several hundred jobs, sell 39 paintings from its valuable collection and reduce its generous dividend by 75 percent to help improve a sagging performance.
The company, which publishes one of the most widely distributed magazines, left unclear how many of its 5,600 employees would ultimately leave. Thomas O. Ryder, the chairman, said he did not yet have a final figure. 
 The dividend cut is likely to have a big impact on an array of cultural and educational institutions that have been the beneficiaries of the publisher's past earnings. The company's founders, Lila and DeWitt Wallace, had established two charitable foundations and seven charitable funds, each intended to support a major cultural institution.
The beneficiaries include such New York landmarks as the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Metropolitan Opera, the New York City Ballet, the New York City Opera, the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, the Lincoln Center Theater and the Wildlife Conservation Society. But the beneficiary list also extends to Colonial Williamsburg and Macalester College in St. Paul.
These institutions already had been been hurt by a 50 percent dividend cut announced last year, to 90 cents. At the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the new cuts will mean roughly an 8.4 percent drop in the budget of $119 million for the current fiscal year, which ends June 30, 1999.
The museum said yesterday through a spokesman that the cuts represent "a painful blow for our operating budget and a crippling one for our acquisitions fund because the money we allocate from the Digest gift to acquisitions is a large percentage of that pool."
Linda Janklow, chairwoman of the Lincoln Center Theater, said the Reader's Digest funds had been "the most wonderful source of arts funding and philanthropy in New York City."
The theater received about $3.5 million from Reader's Digest in the 1998 fiscal year, which ended June 30, or 13.4 percent of its budget. Ms. Janklow said her organization had been alerted that the gift would most likely drop to about $2.9 million in the 1999 fiscal year.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Ryder said the dividend reductions were necessary.
"The issues for these institutions is how they get value over time," he said. "They will never get significant value if they drain from the company its lifeblood. We have been paying dividends far in excess of our ability to do it and limiting the growth opportunities in the company."
Mr. Ryder, who joined the company in April, said his job was "to make this stock worth a lot more money long term -- to build the franchise value of the enterprise.
"The dividend cut is a very small part of a very large effort we announced to do that," he continued.
Mr. Ryder said the company was attempting to attract a younger audience to the pocket-size magazine. Reader's Digest has a United States circulation of 14.7 million, but its main audience of older readers has been declining.
Mr. Ryder came to Reader's Digest from American Express, where he had been president of its Travel Related Services International division and chairman of American Express Publishing. While there, Mr. Ryder used television and radio advertising heavily to promote the company's cards. He hopes to use that marketing tool to help Reader's Digest.
Impatient investors have been waiting for Reader's Digest to sell off its non-income-producing art collection, which includes 8,000 works. The decision to sell 39 paintings, the cream of the collection, received a warm reception: shares rose $1.8125, to $19.9375.
The company plans to slash costs and increase annual profit by $100 million to $150 million in the next three years, Mr. Ryder said. In its last fiscal year, profits plunged 87 percent, to just $17.9 million, while revenue slid 7 percent, to $2.63 billion. The company expects slightly higher profits in the current fiscal year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDA (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (92%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: READER'S DIGEST ASSN INC; METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); METROPOLITAN OPERA; NEW YORK CITY BALLET; NEW YORK CITY OPERA; CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER; LINCOLN CENTER THEATER; WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY; MACALESTER COLLEGE READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (95%); READER'S DIGEST PTY LTD (53%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (82%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: READER'S DIGEST ASSN INC; METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC); METROPOLITAN OPERA; NEW YORK CITY BALLET; NEW YORK CITY OPERA; CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER; LINCOLN CENTER THEATER; WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY; MACALESTER COLLEGE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (82%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WILLIAMSBURG (VA); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (92%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ART LAYOFFS (90%); PAINTING (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); OPERA (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); MUSIC (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (88%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); DANCE COMPANIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BALLET (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (72%); WILDLIFE (52%); 

PERSON: RYDER, THOMAS O; WALLACE, LILA BELL ACHESON (1889-1994); WALLACE, DEWITT DEWITT WALLACE (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



449 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1879 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Shocks and Aftershocks;
The Bear Is Rampant in the Markets for Riskier Bonds

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
The stock market's bear may have gone into hibernation, but the bond market variety is all too alive and well.
Having endured an August from hell in stocks, investors are enjoying a respite in September. But while many stocks have bounced part way back from their losses, bonds -- with the conspicuous exception of United States Treasury securities -- have barely budged. August, one of the most brutal months on record in almost every bond market around the world, has been followed by a September in which most of these securities, even if they are up, have mustered only the merest gains. 
 What happened? Through no fault of their own, investors in a wide variety of bonds, from convertibles to mortgage-backed securities, found themselves trapped in a game of economic dominoes gone awry. Indeed, the bond market action in August is a painful lesson in how the toppling of one market can, in turn, hurt even the most seemingly unrelated market worlds away.
What began in mid-August with a apparently irrelevant de facto default on its debt by the Russian central bank wound up hurting even the most highly rated bonds issued by American corporations with absolutely no exposure to Russia. The only people who escaped the disaster were owners of United States Treasury securities, which were driven to historic highs in price terms as a result of some of the lowest yields in decades.
The situation in Russia caused an about-face in the level of risk that professional investors were willing to tolerate. As long as the International Monetary Fund was willing to bail out countries experiencing economic disarray, investors were comfortable investing in fledgling markets. Russia changed all that.
"The flight to quality, previously, was out of equities and into bonds, and any bonds qualified," said Martin Fridson, chief high-yield strategist at Merrill Lynch. "Now that flight is much more pronounced because investors want to go all the way to the ultimate quality of U.S. Treasury securities. Nothing in between seems safe enough."
What did this new risk aversion mean for various bond markets? Big losses. In August, investors in emerging-market debt lost 28.7 percent of their money, convertible bonds lost 11.8 percent and high-yield bonds lost 7.4 percent of their value. Real estate investment trusts that invest in mortgage securities declined an average 27 percent during the month. Only two non-Treasury sectors showed gains for the period: municipal bonds rose 1.92 percent and the highest-rated corporate bonds inched up 0.51 percent. Treasury bonds, meanwhile, advanced 2.16 percent.
Bonds, remember, are supposed to be boring, predictable investments. No more. "We've probably crammed about a year of volatility into the last six weeks in the bond market," said Randall C. King, senior vice president for asset liability management at PNC Bank in Pittsburgh.
The result of all this volatility has been to bring the issuance of many types of bonds and convertible debt to a near standstill. For example, only one convertible debt issue came to market in all of August.
Why does upheaval in one distant market make for losses closer to home? T. Anne Cox, director of global convertible bond research at Merrill Lynch, explained: "If investors take a hit in one part of their book, their risk tolerance is going to decline across the board. And if everybody does that at roughly the same time, you could see where you'd get some real liquidity pressure."
Hurt the most by the bear market in bonds are hedge funds that made big bets in emerging-market debt and brokerage firms that trade all manner of bonds for their own accounts. Also taking a hit were commercial banks that trade in the same markets. Adding to the upset, many of these concerns used leverage to make their bets, which magnified their losses.
Another piece of bad luck: these big investors typically hedged against losses in emerging-market debt by selling Treasury securities that they did not own. With prices of Treasuries roaring as emerging- market debt plunged, the "hedges" were a disaster as folks found themselves on the wrong side of both of their trades.
As a result, word on Wall Street is that most fixed-income departments at major trading firms have given up all they had made during the first seven months of the year. These departments usually are big money makers for brokerage firms. Last year, for example, Merrill Lynch's taxable fixed-income department generated nearly $1 billion in revenue, 26 percent of the firm's overall revenue for principal transactions.
This year, however, bonuses for employees in these areas are a dream; many firms have already conducted what are euphemistically called head-count meetings. Dismissals will follow.
For individuals, the unhappy sequence of events in the bond market is all that much harder to take because the losses came when interest rates were declining significantly. Yields on the five-year Treasury note, for example, have fallen one full percentage point in recent weeks. The notes traded at 5.43 percent on July 1 and fell to 4.43 percent on Sept. 11. Yesterday they were a little higher at 4.67 percent.
With rates moving down, investors are understandably confounded by losses in their bond portfolios. After all, doesn't Investing 101 dictate that when interest rates fall, bond prices rise?
Indeed it does. But Investing 101 could not have predicted the confluence of events -- the work of professional investors, hedge funds managers and brokerage trading desks which ran away from anything with a whiff of risk to it -- that have paralyzed worldwide bond markets. As the herd stampeded out of junk bonds, convertible debt, emerging- market bonds, even relatively unrisky corporate issues, buyers for these securities disappeared.
Typically, bonds of all kinds trade in tandem. But not in this market; Treasuries have broken away from the pack. "Everybody's focused on the decoupling of stocks and bonds," said Michael Ryan, senior fixed-income strategist at Paine Webber. "What they're not focused on is the decoupling of fixed income."
All fixed-income securities, whether convertibles, high-yield bonds, AAA-rated corporates or mortgage-backed issues, are traditionally evaluated by how much more their coupons yield than Treasury securities with similar maturities. Because Treasuries are as close to a risk-free investment as there is, any bond that is not backed by Uncle Sam has to attract investors with a higher interest rate than those investors would get if they bought Treasuries.
Historically, the average premium at which high-yield bonds, commonly referred to as junk bonds, have traded, for example, is a little under four percentage points higher than similar Treasuries. Now their yields are almost six percentage points higher than Treasuries.
But at the end of last year, according to John DeMeo at Salomon Smith Barney, junk bonds traded at a much smaller premium to Treasuries: a little more than two and three-quarter percentage points above the Government's issues. This narrow spread was the result of yield-starved investors taking as big a gamble as they dared. Those were the days when investors were utterly confident that there was relatively little risk in reaching for that larger return.
So, in the months before what was to be a historic flight to quality, the extra spreads for all non-Treasury debt were extremely narrow. When investors fled, they were fleeing from bonds that were, by traditional standards, highly priced. That only compounded the losses.
Each market has, to some degree, slightly different reasons for its troubles. Convertible bonds, for example, are tied to the fortunes of the typically small stocks that are embedded in their values. These shares have been pummeled by the bear market in small-company equities.
Junk bonds, because they are issued by companies most vulnerable to problems stemming from declines in corporate profits, may also reflect the recent difficulties in small-company stocks and worries about a recession in the United States.
Most investors have probably been unaware of the recent carnage taking place in bonds. That's because it is a much more disparate and less transparent market than the stock market. While it's relatively easy to watch the stock market's ups and downs -- every move is detailed daily in newspapers, on Internet sites and on cable television shows -- bond markets are much harder to track. Because information about trades in these markets is not widely available, only professional traders and institutional investors involved in the worldwide bond markets had a ringside seat for the ugly events unfolding there over the past six weeks.
Toting up the dollars lost by investors in bonds in August is difficult, too, because of the market's opaqueness. But some numbers are available: $48 billion was lost in emerging-market debt that was denominated in dollars, $14.6 billion disappeared from portfolios of convertible bonds, another $15 billion was likely lost in junk bonds and $1.67 billion disappeared during the month from an index of real estate investment trusts that invest in mortgage securities. That's about $80 billion lost.
Investors who are not yet aware of the recent turmoil in bonds may get an unpleasant jolt when they check their mutual fund holdings. There are plenty of bondholders out there: as of Sept. 9, according to AMG Data Services, assets held in bond funds totaled $533 billion, roughly one-fifth the amount currently in stock funds.
A paralysis unlike anything investors have seen for years is gripping non-Treasury bond markets in the United States. Investors who think that September's relative calm in the market is a sign of stability should not be confused. It is a frozen market, where nobody's selling because there are no buyers.
"It's an over-the-counter market and you've got to get these guys to pick up the phone," said Carol Levenson, editor of Gimme Credit, a corporate bond advisory service to institutional investors in Chicago,
Dealers at major Wall Street brokerage firms are no longer bidding for bonds from their customers; they will only take an order if they know they have another customer interested in owning the bonds. And since few investors are interested in adding to their bond positions until they see the market stabilize, most sell orders don't get executed.
As a result, the losses that have been registered in bonds so far probably reflect only a fraction of the real damage done to these markets. If there was actual selling going on, the prices would be far lower. But as long as investors are not forced to sell, the market simply feels ominously quiet.
With the year winding down, more and more investors may be forced to sell their holdings. If the market does not rebound by the end of the year, many large firms want to have their trading portfolios whittled down.
What might the next few months bring to bond investors? Don't expect a big rebound. With Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, declining to elaborate on investors' hopes that he will cut interest rates at the Sept. 29 meeting, the market in all but Treasuries will likely remain frozen.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Earthquake Territory"
Widening yield spreads, or premiums paid to investors above the yields of comparable United States Treasury securities, are a sign of concern among investors about risk. Graphs track such spreads for the following bonds: emerging markets, junk, corporate BBB, corporate AAA/AA, and mortgage-backed securities, since the beginning of the year.
 
"A Month to Forget"
Price returns of indexes for the month of August.
 
S.& P. 500 stock index: -14.6%
Treasury bonds: +2.2%
Municipal bonds: +1.92%
AAA/AA bonds: +0.5%
Mortgage-backed securities: +0.3%
Corporate bonds: -0.4%
BBB bonds: -1.6%
Junk bonds: -7.4%
Convertible debt: -11.8%
Emerging markets*: -28.7%
 
*In U.S. dollars
 
(Sources: Salomon Smith Barney; J.P. Morgan; Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); PNC BANK NA (50%); UNITED STATES TREASURY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES TREASURY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



450 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1561 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT;
Excerpts From the President's News Conference

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a news conference today at the State Department by President Clinton and President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic as recorded by The New York Times:
MR. CLINTON -- Today I am very proud to stand with President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic. . . .
I was proud to visit President Havel in Prague in 1994 to see the great energy, creativity, joy of the Czech people unleashed. When we celebrate freedom today we know that many challenges still lie ahead. President Havel recently put it very well. "Something is being born," he said, "one age is succeeding another. We live in a world where everything is possible and almost nothing is certain." 
 Today, our meetings focused on seizing those possibilities and minimizing those uncertainties. . . . We talked about next year's NATO summit here and the Czech Republic's preparations for integration into the NATO alliance. . . .
We spoke about the urgent need to bring stability to Kosovo to prevent suffering there and the current tensions in Albania. We discussed ways to strengthen our cooperation against the terrible scourge of terrorism. . . . We are making progress as friends and partners. That is possible only because of the courage President Havel and the Czech people have shown and continue to show today. We will continue to do the hard work together so that our children can reap the full benefits of it in the new century. . . .
MR. HAVEL The situation of contemporary world is very complicated. We feel it especially in Europe, especially in central Europe, especially in Czech Republic. And I think that in this situation it's extremely important the responsibility of United States, as the biggest, most powerful country all around the world.
And I'm extremely grateful or thankful to Mr. President and his leadership because it was in his time when we received the chance to build new Europe and to build new Europe it means to build the new world, peaceful world. . . .
Q. -- Mr. President, what can the U.S. and NATO do to stop the killing in Kosovo? And what do you say to people who have said that you have lost all the moral authority to lead this nation or to conduct foreign affairs?
MR. CLINTON -- Let me answer the second question first. . . .
I have never stopped leading this country in foreign affairs in this entire year and I never will. . . . We have taken action against those who killed our people and killed the Kenyans and Tanzanians. We have . . . been working for peace in Northern Ireland, for stability in Russia. I have been personally involved in the peace process in the Middle East again as it reaches another critical phase. I gave a speech Monday which I think is about the most important subject now facing the world community: How to limit this financial crisis and keep it from spreading; how to develop long-term institutions that will help to promote growth and opportunity for ordinary people around the world in a way that permits America's economic recovery to go on. . . .
I had a good talk with President Chirac of France, who called me a couple of days ago to talk about some of our common concerns and the U.N. inspection system in Iraq and other things. So I feel good about that.
Now on Kosovo . . . we have looming there, right next door to Bosnia, a significant humanitarian problem. There are many many tens of thousands of people who've been dislocated from their homes . . . at very high levels in the mountains, which means it will get colder there much more quickly than in the rest of the country. . . . We're doing everything we can to avert the humanitarian disaster. . . . We're pursuing negotiated settlement options through Ambassador Chris Hill. . . . We're doing NATO planning and consulting with our allies because I still believe the big problem here is Mr. Milosevic is determined to get a military solution if he can instead of pursuing a diplomatic solution. . . . While the political and legal situation is not identical to what we had in Bosnia, the humanitarian issue is similar. And we don't want a repeat of Bosnia. . . .
Q. -- So you think you do have a moral authority to lead this nation?
MR. CLINTON -- Well, you might -- in my view, that is something that you have to demonstrate every day. My opinion is not as important as the opinion of others. What is important is that I do my job. . . . I'm determined to lead this country and to focus on the issues that are before us. It is not an option. There's no option. We have got to deal with these things.
Q. -- Mr. President, from your understanding of events, is Monica Lewinsky's account of your relationship accurate and truthful? And do you still maintain that you did not lie under oath in your testimony?
MR. CLINTON -- I have said for a month now that I did something that was wrong. On last Friday at the prayer breakfast I laid out as carefully and as brutally honestly as I could what I believed the essential truth to be. I also said then and I will say again that I think that the right thing for our country and the right thing for all people concerned is not to get mired in all of the details here, but to focus, for me to focus on what I did, to acknowledge it, to atone for it and then to work on my family, where I still have a lot of work to do, difficult work. And to lead this country to deal with the agenda before us, these huge issues that I was talking about internationally. Plus, with only two weeks left to go in this budget year a very, very large range of items before the American people here at home. Doing our part to deal with this financial crisis with the, funding the International Monetary Fund, saving the Social Security system before we spend the surplus, doing the important work that we can do to help educate our children, dealing with the patients' bill of rights for these people, 160 million of them in H.M.O.'s.
These are the things to me that I should be talking about as President without in any way ever trying to obscure my own personal acknowledgment and chagrin about what I did wrong and my determination to put it right.
Q. -- Mr. President Havel, you said today that President Clinton is your great friend, I wonder if the discovered misdeeds of President Clinton have any how influenced your approach to him, your relation to him?
MR. HAVEL -- I didn't recognize any change . . .
Q. -- Mr. President, as the Lewinsky matter continues to unfold, can you foresee any circumstance where you might consider resignation, either because of the personal toll on you or the toll on the country? And do you think it's fair if the House should release its videotapes?
 MR. CLINTON -- Let me first of all say that the personal toll on me is of no concern except insofar as it affects my personal life. . . . because I'm working on what I should be working on. I believe the right thing for the country and I what I believe the people of the country want, is now that they know what happened, they want to put it behind them and they want to go and they want me to go on and do my job. And that's what I intend to do. That is the right thing to do.
In terms of the question you asked about the House, they have to decide that. That's not for me to decide. They have to do their job, and I have to do mine. . . .
Q. -- When you gave your deposition, sir, were you fully aware that it might be released, the videotape?
MR. CLINTON -- I think that I knew that the rules were against it, but I thought it would happen. I think that's where I was on that. But it's not of so much concern to me. I mean, you know that I acknowledged an improper relationship and that I declined to discuss the details. . . .
Q. -- Mr. President, you have mentioned in your speech that you appreciate the personal contribution of President Clinton to the NATO enlargement, and you see him also as a personal friend. I'd like to know how do you think that an eventual resignation or impeachment of President Clinton would influence the American foreign policy and the Czech-American relations?
MR. HAVEL -- through translator I believe, first, that this is a matter for the United States and for the American people, who will be their President. When I have made a friendship with someone, I remain that person's friend no matter which office he or she holds or doesn't hold.
Q. -- Mr. President, your initiative on race finishes this month and your press secretary yesterday agreed that the race initiative isn't flying because of your current problems and it was bogged down in the muck and mire.
But do you regret that your personal problems affected your potential legacy on race and that it may just, at best, be a Band-Aid approach to racism in America?
MICHAEL McCURRY -- That's not exactly what I said.
Mr. CLINTON -- I don't know if he said that. But if he did, I strongly disagree with him. I don't think it has affected it at all.
As a matter of fact, I think, the response you've seen from some sectors of the American community have reinforced and acknowledged the centrality of this issue to the work of the last six years, not just the work of the last year.
And let me also say that what is coming to an end here is this phase of it. And there will be a report that the board will give me a set of recommendations. Then we expect to produce a document.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CZECH REPUBLIC (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOSOVO (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (91%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CZECH REPUBLIC-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); POLITICS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); TERRORISM (66%); ETHICS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HAVEL, VACLAV (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



451 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: NEW YORK GOVERNOR;
New Pataki Endorsements Upstage Vallone Upstate

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Sept. 16

 BODY:
A day after winning the Democratic gubernatorial primary, Peter F. Vallone took a victory lap of New York today to re-introduce himself to upstate voters, but he was upstaged when Buffalo's Democratic Mayor endorsed Gov. George E. Pataki for re-election.
Mr. Vallone, who remains little known upstate despite months of campaigning, pointedly made his first stops here and in Albany, in search of a lift from his easy win in Tuesday's primary. And he focused on the stubbornly weak upstate economy, blaming Mr. Pataki. 
 "We are fighting for last place in job creation," he said at a news conference with local officials at Buffalo International Airport. "There's no excuse."
But less than two hours after Mr. Vallone's campaign plane took off, Mr. Pataki's touched down, and the Republican Governor accepted the embrace of Anthony M. Masiello, Mayor of the state's second-largest city.
"I lay aside all partisanship," Mr. Masiello declared at a news conference at a marina on the Niagara Canal. "I focus instead on one simple question: what is best for Buffalo, New York?"
Mr. Pataki boasted that the Democratic mayors of Niagara Falls, Utica and Oneida had already supported him. Of Mr. Masiello, he said, "the Mayor has shown the courage to cross party lines because our policies are right for Buffalo and right for this state."
Other Buffalo Democrats charged that Mr. Masiello acted purely in hope of winning more state aid for his economically distressed city. Democrats worry that a tide of defections like Mr. Masiello's could undermine their candidate.
In the primary, Mr. Vallone defeated his closest competitor, Lieut. Gov. Betsy McCaughey Ross, by a 5-to-2 margin. But today, Ms. McCaughey Ross pledged to continue running through November as the Liberal Party candidate, a stance that has infuriated many Democrats, who contend that all she will accomplish is to divide the anti-Pataki vote.
"I respect the leaders of the Democratic Party tremendously and I look forward to working with them in the future," Ms. McCaughey Ross said today in Manhattan. "But I've given my word to the Liberal Party, and I feel it's very important for me to keep my word."
Raymond B. Harding, the Liberal Party chairman, filed a complaint today with the State Board of Elections, charging that efforts by Democrats to persuade Ms. McCaughey Ross to drop from the race amounted to threats and coercion. He cited the comments of Judith Hope, the state Democratic chairwoman, who said Tuesday night that if the Lieutenant Governor remained in the race, "it will get very ugly and will turn out to be a very unpleasant experience."
Mr. Vallone said: "I have no advice for Betsy. She's got to do whatever she does on her own."
As they kicked off the campaign for the general election, the largest share of attention belonged to Mr. Pataki and Mr. Vallone.
The Governor's waltz around the state was clearly intended to overshadow Mr. Vallone, the Speaker of the New York City Council. After the Masiello endorsement, the Governor and the Republican nominee for lieutenant governor, Mary O. Donohue, flew to Rochester and Binghamton for enthusiastic rallies.
The Pataki campaign has begun labeling Mr. Vallone, who is usually seen as a moderate, as a liberal who has raised taxes. Aides to the Governor said Mr. Pataki's first advertisement attacking the Democrat would probably be broadcast this week.
Mr. Vallone, too, intends to air new advertisements this week, but starts the campaign with about $1 million to the Governor's $12 million.
Mr. Vallone's victory over three rivals on Tuesday gave him a new degree of celebrity after a primary that drew little interest. When he appeared here a week ago to receive the endorsement of Dennis T. Gorski, the Erie County Executive, just three reporters turned up and no television cameras. Today, there were more than a dozen reporters and four television cameras.
Mr. Vallone challenged Mr. Pataki to debates, repeatedly taunting the Governor about the paid speeches he has made around the country.
"I know that you've made speeches in California, in Iowa, in New Hampshire and in a couple of other states," he said. "I challenge you, Governor, to debate right here in New York State. Let's start in Buffalo."
Asked about the challenge, Mr. Pataki responded, "I am very proud of our record, and I look forward to a spirited campaign, including debating all the issues." But he would not commit to televised debates, or to a one-on-one confrontation with Mr. Vallone.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter F. Vallone called supporters yesterday from his headquarters in Queens after winning the Democratic nomination for governor. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL (69%); LIBERAL PARTY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); NEW YORK CITY COUNCIL (69%); LIBERAL PARTY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; BUFFALO (NY); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); UTICA, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; ENDORSEMENTS GOVERNORS (92%); MAYORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); JOB CREATION (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); AIRPORTS (69%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); MASIELLO, ANTHONY (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



452 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Proposes $100 Million Tax Rebate

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Sept. 16

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman embraced a host of recommendations today that she said would eventually reduce local property taxes by $1.2 billion, and then went on to propose an immediate rebate of $100 million in surplus state tax revenue to property owners.
Saying she recognized that New Jersey residents, who pay the highest per capita property taxes in the nation, needed tax relief now, the Governor added that the state's strong economy and the brisk pace of revenue collection in the fiscal year ended June 30 made the rebates possible. 
 She said she could not guarantee that the economy would allow rebates in the future, but added, "When state government takes in more money than we expected, then it's time to remember where that money came from and to give it back."
Mrs. Whitman said that the specifics of the rebate program would have to be worked out with the State Legislature and that it was too early to predict how much would be refunded. But she insisted that the money would go directly to those who paid local property taxes.
Aides to the Governor said that the rebate plan complemented the array of other measures recommended this week by a panel she set up after last year's election to find ways to cut property taxes. Of the 60 recommendations by the commission, Governor Whitman immediately endorsed 17 proposals she said she would enact through executive order or by supporting bills before the Legislature.
The recommendations that she embraced would create state incentives for localities to consolidate and regionalize some services; allow the state to pay the cost of local prosecutors, and authorize some urban areas to levy new or additional taxes on parking, entertainment and hotel rooms.
Like the recommendations of the panel, the Property Tax Commission, which were formally released on Tuesday, the Governor's proposed rebate program met with mixed reaction from Democrats and Republicans. Some praised Mrs. Whitman for trying to direct tax relief to property owners but questioned the timing of it when the state needs to spend money to improve transportation and schools.
Others charged that the rebate program was an attempt to make up for the tepid, or as one said, "the less than ambitious" recommendations of her tax commission. In particular, they criticized the commission for not calling for any major shifts in education costs. Such expenses are by far the largest segment of local tax bills, and critics have said for years that the state should assume more of these costs.
Assemblyman Joseph V. Doria, the Democratic minority leader, termed the $100 million in immediate rebates the "Son of Property Tax Relief Fund" and said neither the rebates nor the longer-term proposals of the Governor's commission would quiet the public furor over residents' heavy local tax burden.
"Many of the recommendations are giving the distinct impression that this Governor is seeking to use bravura instead of substance to extinguish the public firestorm over high property taxes," he said.
Anticipating such criticism, Mrs. Whitman adopted the cautious tone of the commission members, who said yesterday that any wholesale shifting of education costs from local property taxes would mean a loss of some local control -- consequences that required a more complete public discussion.
"The commission's work also supports what I state in announcing its formation," the Governor said. "Namely that the public needs to know, understand and accept the true costs of confronting the property tax problem."
The Governor's rebate program is similar to those of a half-dozen states around the nation that, finding themselves flush in good economic times, have sought ways to ease tax burdens immediately without permanently lowering tax rates or altering tax codes. It is a new experience for many states, which have been experiencing "sustained surpluses" for up to four years running, said Mandy Rafool, a policy specialist with the National Conference of State Legislatures.
According to a survey by the group, Connecticut, Colorado, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio and Oregon have given such rebates. Only Colorado and Missouri are required by statute or their constitutions to do so whenever there are surpluses, Ms. Rafool said. The rebates ranged from $37 to $260.
Governor Whitman's plan calls for the first rebates to come from fiscal 1998 revenue. In the future, rebates to property owners would occur if state income tax revenue exceeded the Governor's projections by 10 percent and all other state taxes met their projected levels. Twenty percent of the overflow would go into the rebate fund in any given year and it would be disbursed to property taxpayers only when it reached $100 million.
The State Treasurer, James Di Eleuterio, said that last year state income tax receipts were $4.85 billion, or $554 million more than expected. This is above the 10 percent threshold that would cause a rebate and 20 percent of it produces the approximately $100 million that Gov. Whitman proposes to disburse as rebates once the Legislature arrives at a mechanism for allotting it to property owners.
As for the commission recommendations, Mrs. Whitman said she would create a $25 million state fund to provide the financial incentives for municipalities that consolidated services in the interest of efficiency. This would create the so-called Regional Efficiency Aid Program, which would provide the state's 21 counties, 566 municipalities, 611 school districts and 400 local authorities with tax relief if they adopted cost-saving consolidations.
The incentive money from the state will be over and above existing state aid to municipalities. It will be itemized in the local tax bills to indicate how it was apportioned to reduce an individual's local taxes.
The Governor also created a $10 million pool of state money to assist localities in studying such consolidations and mergers.
James W. Hughes, a member of the Governor's commission and dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University, said it was wise to start out small with such incentive programs. "This is a bottom-up approach rather than a top-down approach," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Christine Todd Whitman yesterday discussed recommendations, developed by a panel that she set up last year, to reduce property taxes. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; REBATES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES PROPERTY TAX (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX RELIEF (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); STUDENT EXPENSES (69%); SALES REBATES (58%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



453 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON PROPOSAL TO AID ECONOMIES MEETS OBSTACLES

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16

 BODY:
President Clinton's push to quell the global financial turmoil ran into several obstacles today as Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified that the world's big economies had no plans for a coordinated reduction in interest rates.
"I think I can safely say at the moment there is no endeavor to coordinate interest rate cuts," Mr. Greenspan told the House Banking Committee, but he again hinted that the global crisis could lead the Fed to cut domestic rates. "Deflationary forces are continuing to emerge" in much of the rest of the world, he said, and they are moving toward the United States. 
 Robert E. Rubin, the Treasury Secretary, indicated today that Brazil was the main focus of American concern in Latin America. But in another setback to coordinated action, negotiations involving Brazil, the International Monetary Fund and the major industrial nations over a multibillion-dollar rescue package hit political difficulties. Brazilian officials appear hesitant to seek aid before their country's Presidential election in two weeks, especially because a condition for the help would be agreeing to unpopular budget cuts, people involved in the negotiations said.
Taken together, the political obstacles to assembling a rescue package for Brazil and the obvious discord within the Group of Seven industrial nations regarding a global interest rate cut suggest that President Clinton's agenda will be extremely difficult to enact.
American investors had hoped that Mr. Clinton's call on Monday for a concerted push to contain the fast-spreading global crisis would lead to quick action to shore up the embattled economies of Latin America. Mr. Clinton's words, they hoped, would spur central banks to put aside their traditional fixation on inflation and reduce rates to promote growth.
But Germany's powerful central bank, the Bundesbank, signaled on Tuesday that it continued to see inflation as a threat in Europe, and officials from other nations have also been playing down the possibility of quick action on rates or any other response to the global tumult.
In the United States, however, Mr. Greenspan said there was evidence that the robust pace of growth was slowing and that investors were becoming more nervous about how the global crisis was affecting the domestic financial system.
"I would say that despite the still very solid American economy as of now, there are really the first signs of erosion at the edges, especially in manufacturing," he said.
The Fed will next meet on Sept. 29 to consider interest rates, and despite Mr. Greenspan's hints that a rate cut could be considered, it is by no means clear that the central bank's other members are ready to act.
William Poole, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said today that although the Fed was under pressure to help other economies and the world financial system, it had to stay focused on restraining inflation in the United States.
While he did not rule out supporting a rate cut, Mr. Poole, one of the Fed's most ardent inflation fighters, said that an "attempt to pursue other objectives that in fact damaged pursuit of price stability in the United States would only add to world financial problems."
Mr. Clinton's comments this week marked the first time that he had detailed a plan of action, and he said at a news conference today that fighting the financial crisis was "the most important subject now facing the world community." He argued that "my objectives were embraced by the leaders, the financial leaders, of the largest industrial countries in the world."
Even some of his closest aides conceded in private that his call for action came late and that the economic problems were now far more complicated than they were in early August, when he first considered giving the speech.
"He should have done this months ago," one of his closest advisers said today, acknowledging that the plan would be even more difficult to achieve now that the President is fending off calls for resignation, impeachment or censure.
United States officials are clearly worried about the fallout if Brazil, one of America's largest trading partners, is hit full force by the economic contagion caused by the flight of investors from emerging markets worldwide.
Mr. Rubin, testifying today, was cautious discussing Brazil, saying that it "is obviously enormously important to this country."
"We have been very focused on this, actually," he said, "for quite some time, and particularly over the course of the past week. I think it is probably premature to comment on specifics other than to assure you that this has been the subject of intense focus through last week, the weekend, and up to the current moment."
In addition to Brazilian caution before a presidential election, the nation's problems are fed by the fear of a renewed attack on the currency as investors continue to flee emerging markets and worries that the I.M.F.'s emergency reserves must be carefully conserved.
Brazilian officials say they have not asked the I.M.F. for direct help. But on Tuesday night, the Finance Minister, Pedro Malan, said that his Government was talking to the I.M.F. and the Group of Seven countries about ways to bolster the confidence of investors. He hinted that the I.M.F. would put together a line of credit, probably more than $25 billion, that Brazil and its neighbors could draw on to defend their currencies and pay their international debts.
But this morning, hours after President Fernando Henrique Cardoso talked to President Clinton by telephone in a discussion that neither government described in detail, Mr. Malan backed away. "It is not for Brazil to speak for the I.M.F. or any G-7 country or make comments on the terms, volumes and conditions upon which international cooperation could or would be made available to countries if the need arises," he said. Other officials said that there had not been any discussion of the size of the package.
"He was out ahead of himself," one person close to the negotiations said, insisting on anonymity, "but he wasn't entirely blowing smoke."
Mr. Malan, much like officials in Thailand and Korea late last year, may have been dangling the possibility of international help to encourage the recent run-up in the Brazilian stock market -- which could help stave off the need for help. He did not discuss the conditions that Brazil would have to meet in return for the commitment of backup financing because they are likely to create trouble for Mr. Cardoso as his re-election campaign enters its final weeks.
The I.M.F., officials say, would insist that Brazil cut its huge budget deficit, which currently runs about 7 percent of the country's gross domestic product. That would mean pushing cuts in social programs or military spending through a notoriously undisciplined Congress, a task that the Government would prefer to tackle after the elections.
"It's a very, very slow mating dance," an official involved in the discussions said. "The Brazilians don't want to acknowledge that they need help, but they also don't want to risk a meltdown of their economy in the next few weeks."
Putting together a rescue package would almost certainly involve committing the last $15 billion left in the I.M.F.'s "emergency fuel tank," a fund called the General Agreement to Borrow. It is essentially a loan from the world's major economies, which used the same fund in July in a failed effort to prop up Russia.
Russia has used only $4.8 billion of the money it was promised, but billions more are committed to Moscow should it meet the I.M.F.'s conditions of collecting more taxes and keeping the money supply under control. So far, the new Russian Government, appointed just days ago, appears to be moving in the opposite direction.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, foreground, and Robert E. Rubin testify before the House Banking Committee. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (77%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (60%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (77%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); DEFLATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); TRENDS (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W; SANGER, DAVID E; RUBIN, ROBERT (SEC) BILL CLINTON (93%); ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



454 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

No Plans for Coordinated Interest Rate Reductions
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said there were no plans for a coordinated interest rate reduction by the world's major powers. Investors had been hopeful that President Clinton's call on Monday for a concerted push to contain the fast-spreading economic crisis would lead to quick action to shore up the increasingly embattled economies of Latin America.
Talks between Brazil, the International Monetary Fund and the major industrial nations over a multibillion dollar rescue package also ran into difficulties. Page A1. 

Stocks Up for 4th Consecutive Day
Stocks rose for the fourth day, the longest string of consecutive gains since June. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 65.39 points, or eight-tenths of a percent, to 8,089.78. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.80 points, to 1,045.48, while the Nasdaq composite index increased 11.80 points, to 1,689.91. The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell to 5.22 percent from 5.25. C8.
 
NBC Set to Cut 200 to 300 Workers
Robert C. Wright, the president of NBC, is expected to announce the layoff of 200 to 300 workers in all divisions of the network in a memorandum today. The reductions are between 4 percent and 5 percent of NBC's 6,500 employee work force. The cuts at NBC, a division of General Electric, follow moves by both CBS and ABC to cut costs. CBS hopes to save $180 million by cutting 200 to 300 employees. ABC has not ordered layoffs, but it is trying to reduce expenses. C6.
 
Japanese Reform Still Bogged Down
Japan does not seem to be closer to passing a landmark series of bills to stabilize its financial system. C4.
 
T.W.A. Chief Critical of Alliances
The chief executive of Trans World Airlines has denounced proposals by the country's six largest carriers to pair off into three alliances as "anti-competitive schemes" that the Government should block. C4.
 
F.D.A. Panel Backs Arthritis Drug
An advisory panel to the F.D.A. has recommended approval of Enbrel, a drug created by genetic engineering to treat rheumatoid arthritis. It is made by Immunex, a Seattle-based biotechnology company. A24.
 
Factory Production Jumped 1.7%
Production at American factories soared 1.7 percent in August, the biggest gain in more than 14 years, but virtually all of the strength reflected increased auto output after the strike at General Motors ended. Factory production was up one-tenth of a percent when auto output was excluded. July business inventories were unchanged. C23.
 
A Relaxation of Software Controls
The Clinton Administration is relaxing export controls on data-scrambling technologies, despite the Justice Department's insistence that controls remain tight. C5.
 
Bayer Plans to Spin Off Imaging Unit
The German chemical company Bayer is expected to announce today that it is spinning off Agfa-Gevaert, its imaging unit. C4.
 
An Alliance for Netscape and Qwest
Netscape Communications and Qwest Communications International plan an alliance that will let consumers manage voice mail, E-mail and fax communications through a single site on the World Wide Web. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,089.78, up 65.39
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.22%, down 0.03
The Dollar -- 134.90 yen, up 1.00
 
Graphs: "TODAY"
Consumer Price Index
 August figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: +0.1%
 
U.S. Balance of Trade
 July figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern.
 Expected: -$15.3 billion
 
Another graph tracks the month-to-month percent change in industrial production, from May through August.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (84%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INVENTORIES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BOND MARKETS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); APPROVALS (66%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (65%); ARTHRITIS (65%); AIRLINES (62%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (62%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (62%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (61%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%); AUTOIMMUNE DISORDERS (60%); EXPORT CONTROLS (60%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (60%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



455 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Bosnian Serb Leader Is Said to Lose Election
The Bosnian Serb leader Biljana Plavsic, left, a key player in American strategy in Bosnia, appeared to have been voted out of office, according to international officials monitoring preliminary results of last weekend's elections. Mrs. Plavsic, president of the Serbian republic in Bosnia, was apparently defeated by Nikola Poplasen, the leader of the Serb Radical Party, the officials said. A1 

Basque Rebels Call Truce
The Basque separatist guerrilla group ETA announced an "indefinite and total" truce, to take effect today. The announcement followed weeks of speculation that the group was close to declaring a truce that would end decades of bloodshed. A3
 
U.S. and Iran May Talk
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright is expected to attend a United Nations meeting next week that is likely to include her Iranian counterpart, Western diplomats said, raising the prospect of the highest-level diplomatic contact between the two countries in nearly 20 years. A11
 
Iraq Threat to End Cooperation
Iraq's highest ruling council endorsed a threat to end all cooperation with United Nations arms inspectors if the Security Council did not restore regular sanctions reviews. A13
 
Report on Terror in Algeria
A panel of political leaders who visited Algeria to study the violence that has killed tens of thousands of people in recent years blamed terrorists for most of the deaths and said that the Algerian Government deserved the world's sympathy. A12
 
Aid is Slow for Flooded Chiapas
The worst floods in Mexico in this century washed away or interred thousands of homes along the coastline of Chiapas state. Ten days after the floods began their destruction, many coastal communities remained cut off from overland aid deliveries, and the Government's helicopter airlift has been slowed by rain and a lack of supplies. A3
 
An Opposition Party for China
Dissidents in China have applied to register local branches of an opposition organization, the China Democratic Party, rights groups said. The dissidents said they were surprised when the idea was not rejected outright and even more surprised when, in two provinces, they were told the Government's requirements to register an organization. A5
 
Typhoon Hits Northern Japan
Typhoon Stella struck central and northern Japan with 65 m.p.h. winds, triggering floods and landslides, stalling 1,600 trains and killing at least four people. Another 25 people were injured as the typhoon, Japan's fifth of the season, cut its way through northern Japan to the Pacific Ocean. In 24 hours, the storm dumped up to 14 inches of rain on areas still recovering from severe flooding caused by a Typhoon Rex last month. Sixteen deaths were attributed to that storm. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A14-28
 
House Republicans Move Toward Release of Tape
House Republicans closed ranks and pushed closer to releasing a videotape of President Clinton's grand jury testimony about his affair with Monica S. Lewinsky, despite Democratic objections and private warnings from some in their own ranks that the release of more sexually explicit material could backfire. A1
 
President Clinton firmly defended his ability and intention to lead, saying that it was "the right thing" for him to remain in office. A1
 
Republicans on Capitol Hill reacted with fury after a magazine on the Internet said Representative Henry J. Hyde, who heads the committee that will review evidence against President Clinton, had a long-ago affair with a married woman. A27
 
The Paula Jones lawsuit is re-emerging to pose new political and legal threats to the President, lawyers in and out of the White House said. A24
 
The Year of the Woman
Two women in the state of Washington will face each other as major-party nominees for the United States Senate. A14
 
An Appeal to Whites and Blacks
Anthony A. Williams, who swept to victory on Tuesday in the Democratic primary in the nation's capital, began his campaign for mayor by renewing his pledge to bring a sometimes racially divided city back together. A14
 
Computer Export Study Faulted
Government auditors said that when the Clinton Administration relaxed export controls on high-performance computers, it relied on a flawed report that did not study the national security implications and concluded with scant data that the computers were already easily available. A15
 
Supplement Safety Questioned
People trying to treat their ailments with remedies from health-food stores have become severely ill from "dietary supplements," according to reports being published in the New England Journal of Medicine. A24
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-12
 
Principals Reject Big Raise Tied to Big Concessions
The Giuliani administration has offered a record raise of more than 30 percent over five years to public school principals -- in exchange for their giving up the right to lifetime tenure and for working a 12-month year. The principals denounced the offer and broke off talks. A1
 
The Board of Education voted to transfer control of security in public schools to the Police Department. B5
 
Improving Transit Service
Transit officials said they planned to spend $44 million to expand service during 1999. B1
 
An Offer to Steinbrenner
Cablevision, which owns the Knicks and the Rangers, was said to have renewed efforts to buy the Yankees, offering George M. Steinbrenner 3d a hand in running all three teams should he sell his ball club. B1
 
Property Tax Cut Endorsed
Governor Whitman embraced a host of recommendations that she said would reduce property taxes in New Jersey by $1.2 billion, and she proposed a $100 million rebate in surplus tax revenue to property owners. B1
 
Back to School for Lawyers
The state's chief judges said lawyers would have to begin taking regular continuing-education courses. B3
 
Gotti Son Ordered Released
John A. Gotti was granted bail nine months after he was arrested on racketeering charges. B5
 
ARTS E1-10
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
CIRCUITS G1-14
 
OBITUARIES B15
 
Thomas J. Murphy
A tough and savvy negotiator who led the Newspaper Guild of New York for 22 years, he was 91. B15
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
Snags for Clinton Effort
President Clinton's push to quell the global financial turmoil ran into obstacles. Among them, the Fed chairman said the world's big economies had no plans for a coordinated interest rate reduction, and talks on a rescue package involving Brazil, the I.M.F. and major industrial nations encountered political difficulties. A1
 
Austerity at Reader's Digest
The Reader's Digest Association will cut several hundred employees, sell 39 paintings from its collection and reduce its dividend by 78 percent. C1
 
Toy Chain Will Revamp
Toys "R" Us said it would reorganize its business, close 90 stores, eliminate up to 3,000 jobs and take $495 million in after-tax charges. C1
 
Shoe Retailer Closing Stores
The Venator Group said it would close its 570 Kinney and Footquarters stores and take a $173 million third-quarter charge. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-18
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: Campaign reformer under attack; Iran versus Afghanistan; overreaching on assisted suicide; a principal problem.
 
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E6
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E7
 
Weather C23

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); JAPAN (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ALGERIA (93%); CHINA (93%); SERBIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); JAPAN (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); ALGERIA (93%); CHINA (93%); SERBIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); MEXICO (79%); SPAIN (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TYPHOONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FLOODS & FLOODING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); COASTAL AREAS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); BASQUE HOMELAND & FREEDOM (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); TERRORISM (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); WEATHER (69%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); LANDSLIDES (58%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



456 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 23; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Jump in Factory Output Is Linked to End of G.M. Strike

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16

 BODY:
Production at American factories soared 1.7 percent in August, the biggest gain in more than 14 years, but virtually all of the strength reflected increased auto output after the end of the General Motors strike.
Other than that, production was up a much more modest one-tenth of a percent in August, less than the two-tenths of a percent July gain, the Federal Reserve reported today. 
 Economists believe the economy will grow much more slowly in the second half of this year, held down by a widening global financial crisis that has cut sharply into American companies' ability to sell overseas.
A survey of regional economies, also released today, indicates the crisis overseas has begun to hit some regions hard, particularly around Dallas and New York, according to the Fed. And consumers and businesses in some areas are beginning to express concerns about the economy's future, the survey found.
The Fed found growing signs that Asia's troubles are cutting into demand for American manufactured goods and depressing the prices that many farmers receive.
Despite those problems, the economy over all is continuing to expand at a moderate pace, the Fed said: Consumers continue to spend, prices continue to be low and the job market continues to be tight.
The Fed said the 1.7 percent jump in industrial production was the largest gain since a 2.1 percent surge in January 1984. The August increase followed back-to-back declines in production of 1.1 percent in June and four-tenths of a percent in July, the biggest setbacks in eight years.
The rebound in factory output reflected a 3.8 percent surge at manufacturing plants and a smaller, four-tenths of a percent rise in output at the nation's utilities. Output in the mining sector, which includes coal production and oil and gas drilling, dropped six-tenths of a percent in August. The big rise in output at auto plants meant that United States factories were operating at 81.7 percent of capacity in August, up from 80.6 percent in July.
In a separate report, the Commerce Department said the level of business inventories on shelves and backlots remained frozen in July for a third consecutive month.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Inflation at Bay; Economy Holds Amid Signs of Weakness"
A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday.
 
Minneapolis -- Economic growth continued at a moderate pace. Concern about the future was expressed.
 
Chicago -- Manufacturing was mixed due to softening in foreign markets. Highway projects led brisk construction activity.
 
Cleveland -- Business activity remained strong and reported no inflation. Wages increased, some 20 percent since last year.
 
Boston -- Businesses reported growth. Inflation was generally level or declining. Worker shortages persisted.
 
New York -- Production slowed, except in construction and real estate. Lean inventories weakened retail sales.
 
Philadelphia -- Business improved slightly, but slower activity was reported in some sectors.
 
Richmond -- Economic growth moderated while auto sales, services, and manufacturing weakened.
 
Atlanta -- A weaker outlook was reported, despite recent economic growth. Retail sales improved.
 
St. Louis -- Strong chain-store and auto-dealer sales fed healthy economy. Housing and construction rose. Labor shortage persisted.
 
Kansas City -- Crop and manufactured material prices continued to decline due to new products and competition from Asia.
 
Dallas -- Economic activity decelerated. Manufacturing decreased. Overall sentiment weakened considerably.
 
San Francisco -- Commodity prices remained stable or fell. However, prices for some services rose noticeably. Real estate and construction were described as "vigorous," especially in California.
 
Map of the U.S. shows the 12 districts.
 
(Source: Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INVENTORIES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MINING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); MINES & MINING (62%); OIL EXTRACTION (62%); COAL MINING (62%); EMPLOYMENT (52%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



457 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Republicans See Chance To Push Their Agenda

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16

 BODY:
Eager to appear focused on the people's business and not just on President Clinton's, Republicans are pushing ahead with their agenda of economic and social issues in Congress. Today's message, laid out by Representative Bill Archer of Texas, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, was that projections of a big Federal budget surplus justified a tax cut.
"So long as there's a Republican majority," Mr. Archer said at a news conference, "we're going to have a tax cut every year." On Thursday, the Ways and Means Committee will vote on an $80 billion tax cut, and a number of Democrats have hinted that they will go along with the Republican plan. 
 Yet as they move ahead on an array of issues, Republicans remain wary of setting off ideological battles that would allow Mr. Clinton to shift the focus away from his own woes.
As the pressure on Mr. Clinton has mounted and attention on Capitol Hill has been riveted on questions of impeachment, Republicans have pledged to press for action on tax cuts, the budget, abortion, drug use and national security, all with an eye to exploiting the Administration's weakness without provoking a political or popular backlash.
In part, they said, they were motivated by a desire to avoid appearing overly partisan as the House considers impeachment hearings. But they also said voters wanted them to have a positive message heading into this fall's elections and not just to capitalize on Mr. Clinton's problems.
"The best way to expand our majority is to do the business of the people, not to expect the problems of the Democratic side to carry us forward," said Senator John Ashcroft of Missouri. "Their liabilities are not necessarily our assets."
The way the Republicans handle their legislative agenda in the weeks before Congress adjourns is likely to determine how much opportunity Mr. Clinton has to change the subject or put Republicans on the defensive. Most obviously, Republicans will have to decide whether to risk a showdown over their spending priorities and a repetition of the Government shutdown in 1995 and early 1996 that played out to Mr. Clinton's tremendous political benefit.
While some Republicans in Congress want to press as hard as possible at a time when the White House is struggling to stay politically relevant, other Republicans are counseling restraint, saying the party should compromise and avoid ideological battles that Mr. Clinton could use to rally his core Democratic base.
"There's the view that says that from a political standpoint things seem to be breaking in the direction of the Republicans and we should not engage in efforts to pursue our policy agenda that are not consensual and should let the election be about the President and his conduct," said Representative David M. McIntosh of Indiana.
"Then there's the argument that the American people want us to do our job on the Starr report, but they really want us to do our job on cutting taxes, balancing the budget and maintaining a strong national defense," Mr. McIntosh said. "People are evenly split between those two views."
Mr. McIntosh said he came down on the side of pursuing an ambitious agenda, although not to the point of shutting down the Government over differences with Mr. Clinton about spending priorities for the new fiscal year that starts on Oct. 1.
A memorandum circulating among Republican members of Congress last week from Frank Luntz, a consultant who is influential with many conservatives, said Mr. Clinton was much weaker than during battles over changing the health care system in 1994 and balancing the budget in 1995.
But Mr. Luntz said shutting down the Government over spending bills would be going too far, with voters saying they would blame Republicans rather than Mr. Clinton, by a margin of 42 percent to 32 percent, if such a showdown occurred.
Still, Republicans said, Mr. Clinton's troubles have created new opportunities for legislative victories. Republicans said they now had a realistic hope of passing a substantial tax cut this year, believing that Mr. Clinton had lost some of his ability to convince voters that a tax cut, by dipping into projected Federal budget surpluses, would endanger the future of the ailing Social Security system.
Until Mr. Clinton's situation started deteriorating in the last week, most Republicans viewed their tax-cutting effort this year primarily as a way to force Democrats to cast votes that could be used against them on the campaign trail this fall.
"Now the Democrats see a President who's losing his voice," said a House Republican aide. "For Democrats who are caught in a squeeze about voting for a popular tax cut, they have to decide whether to vote with their district or hope that the President can scare people by demagoguing Social Security."
White House officials said the assumption that the President's power and influence were in terminal decline vastly overstated his loss of ability to shape the outcomes of many policy disputes. And with the country still likely to face crises having nothing to do with Mr. Clinton's sex life, they said Mr. Clinton would play as central a role as ever.
"He still has the veto pen," said a senior Administration official. "He still has the microphone."
Along with taxes, the biggest policy fights in coming weeks will be over the spending bills that Congress must pass to finance the Government's operation in the new fiscal year that starts Oct. 1. Mr. Clinton issued veto threats against many of the bills during the summer, objecting both to the spending levels for many programs and to language dictating the way some programs are run.
But although they said they would almost certainly not allow the Government to be shut down -- Congress can pass temporary spending measures if Mr. Clinton should veto any of the appropriations bills -- Republicans said they might prove less willing to compromise than if the President was not fighting for his survival.
For their part, Democrats said Mr. Clinton's limited ability to rally support could thwart any chance of getting their legislative initiatives through this year.
Already, they said, the President's problems have left them with little hope of mounting a last-ditch effort to push new regulations on health maintenance organizations through the Senate this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); ETHICS TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); IMPEACHMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ETHICS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



458 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section G; Page 3; Column 3; Circuits 

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: NEWS WATCH;
Computer Buyers' Ranks Keep Getting Broader

BYLINE: By Matt Richtel 

 BODY:
A new survey indicates that 1999 will bring a marked shift in who first-time home computer buyers will be. The study, by Forrester Research of Cambridge, Mass., found that low-income households, defined as those earning less than $35,000 a year, would become the leading source of first-time home computer purchasers.
Among those first-time buyers, only 37 percent will have attended college and 59 percent will be women, the study concluded. 
 Those figures run counter to the stereotype of a computer buyer as an affluent man with enough graduate degrees to wallpaper the inside of his Lexus. But the Forrester survey indicated that in contrast with first-time buyers, the majority of repeat home computer buyers in 1999 would be men and that 65 percent of them would have attended college.
Shelley Morrisette, a co-author of the study, said two factors behind the demographic shift were a drop in the price of home computers, which has made them more affordable for people with lower incomes, and the simple fact that a growing number of Americans want to own a computer. "People may not know what the Net is, but they know something is out there and it seems to be exciting," Mr. Morrisette said.
Meanwhile, he cautions computer makers and Internet access companies that they will have to be ready to deal with consumers who know little about technology. Forrester reports that 72 percent of first-time buyers do not use a computer at work, a shift away from more technologically adept consumers of the past. Translation: tech support budgets will need to rise, he said.
"The downside is these people are going to require a whole lot of hand-holding," Mr. Morrisette said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); HOME PRICES (67%); 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT SHELLEY MORRISETTE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



459 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
STOCK SLUMPS ON SALESOUTLOOK FOR THIRD QUARTER

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Shares of the Gillette Company fell 10 percent yesterday as the company, the razor blade maker, said its third-quarter sales would be lower than a year earlier because of the economic problems in Asia and Latin America. Shares of Gillette dropped $4.8125, to $40.1875, in trading of almost 14.4 million shares. It was the stock's biggest one-day drop in 11 years. Gillette gets a third of its revenue outside the United States and Western Europe from sales of its razors, Duracell batteries, Papermate pens and other products. Third-quarter earnings will probably be lower than expected as international demand drops and falling currencies generate fewer dollars from local sales.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (93%); PG (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (93%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (93%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (93%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (87%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (52%); 

COMPANY: GILLETTE CO PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: GILLETTE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (90%); LATIN AMERICA (87%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (52%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES SALES FIGURES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); BATTERY MFG (88%); CURRENCIES (87%); CUTLERY & FLATWARE MFG (86%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



460 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Survey of Businesses Assesses Connecticut

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Business owners think Connecticut is a good place to do business, but high costs, a lack of skilled workers and looming preparations for the year 2000 pose obstacles to further growth, a survey for a business group showed.
In the survey, conducted by the Connecticut Business and Industry Association and the accounting firm Arthur Andersen, 62 percent of small and midsize businesses said they would expand or relocate in Connecticut instead of moving to another state. Last year, 54 percent of businesses surveyed said they would stay, the association said yesterday. 
 Of the businesses surveyed, 58 percent said their profits had risen since last year and 69 percent said they thought their profits would rise this year.
The strong business growth has benefited workers, the survey said. About 77 percent of business owners said they were paying their employees more this year than last year, and 72 percent said they expected wages, bonuses or other compensation to increase over the next year.
The survey was done in June and included results from 594 companies with between 5 and 500 employees. The association said that about half of the state's work force was employed at such small and midsize companies.
The business survey was released the day after a Hartford-based think tank said the state's poverty rate increased to 11.7 percent in 1996, the most recent year for which statistics were available, from 9.4 percent in 1992. The think tank, the Connecticut Policy and Economic Council, said those poverty figures could hurt Connecticut's economic competitiveness.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO; CONNECTICUT BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY ASSN T3 CORP (54%); CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO; CONNECTICUT BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY ASSN CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FACTORY WORKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); POVERTY RATES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); RELOCATIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



461 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 145 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Ice Cream Factory to Close

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Baskin-Robbins Inc. has notified 78 workers that it will close its ice cream factory in Southbury, Conn., by the end of the year.
The International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents the plant workers, has scheduled a rally for today in an effort to keep the plant open. 
 The employees received letters in their paychecks last week notifying them that ice cream production will end Nov. 4, although distribution will continue through the end of the year.
The State Department of Economic and Community Development has offered to work with the company in an effort to keep the plant in operation, said Chris Cooper, a department spokesman.
Allied Domecq, a British liquor conglomerate that owns Baskin-Robbins, has told state officials that the plant is too inefficient to continue operation, the Waterbury Republican-American reported on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALLD (LSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (70%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (70%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (70%); SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (70%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (70%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BASKIN-ROBBINS ICE CREAM CO BASKIN-ROBBINS INC (94%); ALLIED DOMECQ PLC (70%); INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BASKIN-ROBBINS ICE CREAM CO INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHBURY (CONN); UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS ICE CREAM MFG (92%); ICE CREAM (91%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); CLOSINGS (88%); PLANT CLOSINGS (88%); 

PERSON: CHRIS COOPER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



462 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Serbs in Bosnia Appear to Shun Favorite of U.S.

BYLINE: By MIKE O'CONNOR 

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sept. 16

 BODY:
A key player in American strategy in Bosnia, the Bosnian Serb leader Biljana Plavsic, appears to have been voted out of office in the elections last weekend, according to international officials who are monitoring preliminary results.
Mrs. Plavsic, president of the Serbian republic in Bosnia, was apparently defeated by Nikola Poplasen, the officials say. Mr. Poplasen, the leader of the Serb Radical Party, is considered an extreme nationalist, and his election would be a clear repudiation of Western goals of integrating Serbs, Croats and Muslims in Bosnia. 
 "If Poplasen has won, it means the Bosnian Serbs are telling the West, 'We don't care about you or your money or your quaint ideas about reconciliation with Muslims and Croats,' " said a European diplomat, who termed the unofficial results "staggering."
Results for the Bosnian Serb legislature indicate that moderates may be able to hold their slight majority. Officials said that major races in the other half of Bosnia, the Muslim-Croat Federation, were too close to call, but that the Muslim leader, Alija Izetbegovic, was certain to be returned to the federation's three-member presidency.
The Western strategy of isolating nationalists and supporting moderate politicians was taken the furthest with Mrs. Plavsic, whom Western leaders have praised extravagantly for more than a year and whose Bosnian Serb republic was saved from economic chaos by Western aid.
She rose to the Bosnian Serb presidency two years ago as an ally of her predecessor, Radovan Karadzic, who stepped down under pressure from NATO after his indictment on war crimes charges. But once in office, she broke with Dr. Karadzic and hard-line associates of his whom she accused of corruption.
Mrs. Plavsic was then identified as a leader with nationalist credentials who could be persuaded that if she acted more moderately, she and her people would benefit from Western aid and acceptance.
The strategy was to strengthen her and use her to break the control that hard-core nationalists had over the half of Bosnia that the 1992-95 war left almost exclusively Serbian.
The strategy seemed to be working. Mrs. Plavsic won a majority in the republic's legislature and was able to gain control over most government ministries. Gradually, the hostility between the Bosnian Serb republic and the Muslim-Croat federation lessened.
But the unofficial results of the election seem to show that Bosnian Serbs are still very fearful of Muslims and Croats, and mistrustful of the West.
"The West offered an implicit deal to the Bosnian Serb people," said a senior European diplomat. "The deal was: Life will get much better for you. You won't be an isolated, hated gang on the edge of Europe. You can keep this thing called the Serb republic if that makes you feel better, even though it is the bankrupt half of a poor country. But in return you have to start thinking like modern Europeans.
"It looks as if they have rejected that deal, and things are going to get bad for them and for us."
A European official in the Bosnian Serb republic said he expected most European countries to scale back or end aid projects there.
"How can we possibly justify doing otherwise if a man like Poplasen is in charge?" he said. "Let them have a year or two of suffering to see if they change their minds."
There are about one million voters in the Bosnian Serb republic, and officials said that with up to 80 percent of the votes counted, Mr. Poplasen was ahead by 40,000 votes. "It is not impossible for him to lose," said a Western official monitoring the returns, "but given the consistency of the results as they are coming in, it is almost impossible."
Western diplomats thought Mrs. Plavsic would get a wave of support in the form of absentee ballots from among the 200,000 Muslims who were expelled from what is now the Bosnian Serb republic during the war. But perhaps as a sign that many Muslim refugees still feel too battered by the war to vote in a way that might benefit them, international officials said, they apparently remembered that Mrs. Plavsic used to be one of the ideologues of Bosnian Serb nationalism and passed up the chance to keep her in office.
"There are very few Muslims who could tick a box next to her name," one foreign official said.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Results Incomplete, U.S. Notes
 WASHINGTON, Sept. 16 (Reuters) -- The final outcome of many races in the Bosnian elections hinge on the ballots not yet counted, the State Department said today. The deputy spokesman, James Foley, said the United States accepted as prudent a decision by international monitors not to release preliminary results on Tuesday as planned.
The ballots counted are those cast at polling stations and represent 85 percent of the 2.4 million people who voted in the two sectors of Bosnia. The remainder covers 132,000 absentee ballots and about 200,000 ballots cast by displaced Bosnian voters at stations where they are not registered, Mr. Foley said. "We do not know who may have won," he said, "and this will not be known until the other 15 percent of the votes have been counted and validated."
 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 19, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina referred incorrectly to the office held by Alija Izetbegovic. He is one of the three members of the country's presidency, not the president of the Muslim-Croat Federation, a constituent part of Bosnia that is led by a prime minister.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; ; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (97%); CROATIA (94%); SERBIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); CORRUPTION (64%); INDICTMENTS (64%); WAR CRIMES (64%); 

PERSON: O'CONNOR, MIKE; PLAVSIC, BILJANA (PRES); POPLASEN, NIKOLA; IZETBEGOVIC, ALIJA (PRES) DAVID DAVIS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998



463 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 39; Column 4; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2954 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES

 BODY:

ATTRACTIONS
 
Museums and Sites
 
AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY, Central Park West at 79th Street. The Hall of Biodiversity focuses on the variety and interdependence of earth's living things. "Spirits in Steel: The Art of the Kalabari Masquerade" features 13 steel sculptures by Sokari Douglas Camp, drawing on themes from her homeland in Nigeria, and 25 Nigerian masks from the museum's collection. "Cave of the Warrior" exhibits rare funerary objects from an intact burial site about 6,000 years old in the Judean desert near Jericho. On view through Dec. 6. "Rare Beauty: America's Endangered Plants," large-format photographs of endangered plants in bloom by Maryl Levine. Through Oct. 4. The Imax films are "Cosmic Voyage" and "Amazon." In the Imax Theater on Friday and Saturday nights at 9, "U2 in 3-D" and at 10, "Pink Floyd's 'Dark Side of the Moon' " in 3-D. Tickets: $9. Museum hours: Sundays through Thursdays, 10 A.M. to 5:45 P.M.; Fridays and Saturdays, 10 A.M. to 8:45 P.M. Suggested admission: $8; students and the elderly, $6; children 12 and under, $4.50; under 2, free. A combination ticket including museum admission and one film: $12; students and the elderly, $8.50; children 12 and under, $6.50; under 2, free. Information: (212) 769-5100; to buy tickets by phone: (212) 769-5200. 

AMERICAN NUMISMATIC SOCIETY, Audubon Terrace, Broadway at 155th Street, Washington Heights. The society has the most extensive coin collection in North America; its library is open to the public. On permanent display is "American Numismatic Design, 1892-1922," which includes all coins issued during this period. Also on view is "The World of Coins," a history since 600 B.C. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 9 A.M. to 4:30 P.M.; Sundays, 1 to 4 P.M. Information: (212) 234-3130.
 
 MUSEUM OF JEWISH HERITAGE: A LIVING MEMORIAL TO THE HOLOCAUST, 18 First Place, at West Street and Battery Place, Battery Park City. Artifacts, documents, photographs, videos and film clips are included in exhibitions on the Holocaust and on Jewish life before and after World War II. Exhibitions include "Jewish Life a Century Ago," with memorabilia from Jewish rituals and celebrations in Europe in the early 1900's; "War Against the Jews," detailing events from 1933 to 1945, and "Jewish Renewal," focusing on life after the Holocaust. Hours: Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Thursdays, 9 A.M. to 8 P.M.; Fridays and the eves of Jewish holidays, 9 A.M. to 2 P.M.; closed Saturdays. Admission: $7; students and the elderly, $5; 5 and under, free. Some same-day tickets are available at the museum; because of heavy attendance, tickets may be purchased in advance through Ticketmaster: (212) 307-4007. Information: (212) 968-1800.
 
 NEW YORK CITY FIRE MUSEUM, 278 Spring Street, SoHo. In a renovated 1904 firehouse, a collection of fire-related art and artifacts from the 18th century to the present, including a fire engine, hose wagons, hats, toys, paintings, memorabilia and hand-drawn pumpers. Also, an exhibition, "Fire Marks: Emblems of Insurance," features 18th- and 19th-century British and American fire marks from the museum's collection. Insurance agencies would give bonuses to firefighters when they saved the premises of a policyholder. The decorative emblems were used to distinguish policyholders from the uninsured. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Suggested admission: $4 for adults; $2 for students and the elderly; $1 for children under 12. Information: (212) 691-1303.
 
 ON THE STREET
 
 41ST GERMAN-AMERICAN STEUBEN DAY PARADE, Fifth Avenue, from 63d to 86th Street, Manhattan. Tomorrow at noon.
 
 JOHN HEUSS HOUSE ANNIVERSARY FESTIVAL, Beaver Street, from Whitehall to William Street, lower Manhattan. Today, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
 C.O.R.E. FESTIVAL, Fourth Avenue, from Astor Place to 14th Street, East Village. Tomorrow, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sponsored by the Congress of Racial Equality.
 
 FAR WEST 10TH STREET BLOCK ASSOCIATION STREET FAIR, from West Street to Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village. Tomorrow, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
 ASTOR PLACE AUTUMN FESTIVAL, from Broadway to Lafayette Street, East Village. Tomorrow, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
 L.E.T.S. LEXINGTON AVENUE FESTIVAL, from 24th to 33d Street, Manhattan. Sunday, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Sponsored by the Lexington East Twenties Society.
 
 AMSTERDAM AVENUE FALL FESTIVAL, from 96th to 110th Street, Manhattan. Sunday, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
 72D FEAST OF SAN GENNARO, Mulberry Street, between Canal and Houston Streets, and on Hester, Grand, Baxter and Mott Streets in Little Italy. Through Sunday. Today, 11:30 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.; tomorrow and Sunday, 11:30 A.M. to midnight.
 
 FIFTH UPPER BROADWAY AUTUMN FESTIVAL, Broadway, from 110th to 116th Street, Morningside Heights. Tomorrow, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M.
 
 RECREATION FIVE-KILOMETER FIGHT AGAINST PROSTATE CANCER, Central Park. Tomorrow at 8:30 A.M. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration: $15 ($10 for members of the New York Road Runners Club; $9 for youngsters and the elderly). Race day registration, $20 ($13 for members; $11 for youngsters and the elderly). Information: (212) 860-4455.
 
 STATEN ISLAND HALF-MARATHON (13.1 MILES), beginning at State Island Ferry Terminal, Richmond Terrace. Sunday at 9:40 A.M. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration, $15 ($10 for members of the New York Road Runners Club; $9 for youngsters and the elderly). Race day registration, $20 ($13 for members; $11 for youngsters and the elderly). Information: (212) 860-4455.
 
 WAVE HILL HIKE, Riverdale, the Bronx. A hike from four to five miles, starting at Van Cortlandt Park. Tomorrow at 10:30 A.M. Sponsored by the Outdoors Club and the New York Hiking Club. Fee, $3. Information: (212) 246-9593.
 
WALKING TOURS "MILLIONAIRES' MILE: THE UPPER EAST SIDE," Manhattan, an exploration of the private clubs, palatial houses and cultural institutions of this landmark district. Led by the architectural historian Matthew Postal. Meets today at 12:30 P.M. at the General Sherman Statue, 59th Street at Fifth Avenue. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Fee, $10; $8 for students and members of the society. Information: (212) 935-3960.
 
 "WORLD OF FINANCE," lower Manhattan. The financial center, inside and out, with stops at the New York Stock Exchange and Trinity Church, a burial place of notable financial figures. Every Friday at 9:30 A.M. year-round, leaving from Broadway and Wall Street. Fee: $15; $10 for students and the elderly. Reservations: (888) 487-2457, extension 207.
 
 "THE GRAND TOUR," covering the architecture and history of the East 42d Street area in Manhattan, including the Chrysler, Chanin and Mobil Buildings and the Bowery Savings Bank and Pershing Square. Meets Fridays at 12:30 P.M. at the Whitney Museum at Philip Morris, Park Avenue at 42d Street. Free. Sponsored by the Grand Central Partnership. Information: (212) 883-2468.
 
 GRAMERCY PARK. A look at the architectural and literary heritage of this fashionable neighborhood where the writer O. Henry and the architect Stanford White lived. Sponsored by the Municipal Art Society. Meets today at 11 A.M. at the northwest corner of 14th Street and Third Avenue. Fee, $10; $8, students, the elderly, and members of the society. Information: (212) 935-3960.
 
 "BIZARRE AND ECCENTRIC TOUR OF THE EAST VILLAGE" includes stops at stores offering tattoos, body piercing and magic potions. Meets today at 7 P.M. at the cube at Astor Place, off St. Marks Place and Eighth and Lafayette Streets. Led by Michael Kabac. Fee: $10, plus $5 for snacks. Information: (212) 370-4214.
 
 "GREENWICH VILLAGE LITERARY PUB CRAWL" combines readings of noted writers with a look at the bars many of them frequented, including the White Horse Tavern, the Cornelia Street Cafe and the Cedar Tavern. Among the writers represented are John Steinbeck, Norman Mailer, Upton Sinclair, Lillian Hellman, Jack Kerouac and Edward Albee. Meets every Saturday at 2 P.M. through Oct. 31 at the White Horse Tavern, 567 Hudson Street, at 11th Street, West Village. Sponsored by the New Ensemble Theater Company. Fee: $12; students and the elderly, $9. Reservations: (212) 613-5796.
 
 CITYQUEST TOURS, Greenwich Village and Fifth Avenues. Self-guided tours using rental CD's and CD players. Equipment can be picked up and dropped off at kiosks in Washington Square Park in the Village and Grand Army Plaza. Fee: $10 a tour; identification necessary. Information: (888) 432-7692.
 
 "A CURMUDGEON'S-EYE-VIEW OF THE THEATER DISTRICT," passes historic theaters and classic movie and television sites. Meets tomorrow at the corner of 42d Street and 10th Avenue. Fee: $10. Sponsored by New York Curmudgeon Tours. Reservations recommended: (212) 629-8813.
 
 "NEW YORK'S GREAT WRITERS," Greenwich Village. A walk past locations associated with Eugene O'Neill, Mark Twain, Edna St. Vincent Millay and other writers. Tomorrow at noon. Fee, $12. Sponsored by NYC Discovery Tours. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331.
 
 "THE TRIBECA YOU NEVER KNEW." A historical walking tour of a commercial district that developed into a residential area and a center for artists. Tomorrow at 2:30 P.M. and Sunday at noon. Fee, $12. Reservations required: (212) 465-3331.
 
 "CITY HALL AREA BLACK HISTORY, LABOR HISTORY," Manhattan. A tour including such places and topics as the African Burial Ground, the Transportation Workers Union, the Sacco-Vanzetti case and the Brooklyn Bridge. Meets tomorrow at 1 P.M. in the front of City Hall. Fee, $10. Sponsored by Radical Walking Tours. Information: (718) 492-0069.
 
 "CENTENNIAL CITIES," a tour of the places of political power and economic resurgence in Manhattan and Brooklyn on the eve of the creation of modern New York City, including stops at City Hall, the Brooklyn mansion of Seth Low and sites associated with Tammany Hall. Meets tomorrow at 1 P.M. at the Nathan Hale Statue, between Broadway and Murray Street. Co-sponsored by the Museum of the City of New York and Big Onion Walking Tours. Fee: $15; $13 for museum members, students and the elderly. Information: (212) 439-1090.
 
 "ASTORIA: HOLLYWOOD EAST AND ATHENS WEST," Queens. A tour of the area around the Kaufman Astoria Studios, with stops at the Socrates Sculpture Garden, St. Demetrios Greek Orthodox Cathedral as well as Greek bakeries and markets. Meets tomorrow at 1 P.M. in front of Baskin-Robbins, 36th Avenue and 36th Street, Astoria. Fee, $8; $6 for students and the elderly. Sponsored by Historic New York Tours. Information: (718) 932-7983.
 
 "MANHATTAN MOVIE MEMORIES: AN OVERVIEW TOUR." A tour of more than 15 movie sites, including those from "Moonstruck" and "Sea of Love." Tomorrow at 11:30 and 1:30 P.M. and Sunday at noon and 2:30 P.M. Fee, $10. Sponsored by Gotham Walk. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 629-1886.
 
 "GREENWICH VILLAGE: NEW YORK'S LEFT BANK," a tour of the streets that have been home to such writers and artists as Eugene O'Neill, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Edgar Allan Poe and Edward Hopper. Meets tomorrow and Sunday at noon at the Washington Arch, Washington Square. Sponsored by Mainly Manhattan Tours. Fee: $ 10. Information: (212) 755-6199.
 
 "WALKS IN OLD CHELSEA," a look at the stately buildings of the area and the stories behind them. Meets tomorrow at 2 P.M. in front of the Flatiron Building, Broadway and 23d Street. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Information: (212) 969-8262.
 
 "TERRIFIC TRIBECA." A walk that passes the new Stuyvesant High School, the old New York Mercantile Exchange, the Independence Plaza complex and an Art Deco office of A. T. Tomorrow at 12:30 P.M. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Fee, $5. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 265-2663.
 
 "SCENIC SOHO." A tour that includes stops at the site of the former Singer Sewing Machine Building (Broadway and Prince Street); the Leo Castelli Gallery on West Broadway and a "haunted" restaurant. Tomorrow at 10:30 A.M Fee, $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 265-2663.
 
 "ANNUAL PRE-ROSH HA-SHANAH JEWISH EAST SIDE" covers more than 100 years of Jewish history and settlement with stops at the Eldridge Street Synagogue, the Jewish Daily Forward building and the founding site of B'nai B'rith. Meets Sunday at 1 P.M. at the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets. Fee: $10; $8 for students and the elderly. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Information: (212) 439-1090.
 
 "HIDDEN TREASURES OF CHINATOWN" touches on the early singing careers of Al Jolson and Irving Berlin and visits an 18th-century mansion. Meets tomorrow at 10:30 A.M. at the northwest corner of the Bowery and Canal Street. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. Fee: $10. Information: (888) 377-4455.
 
 "BROOKLYN BRIDGE TALK AND WALK," a discussion about the building of the Brooklyn Bridge, followed by a walk across and back. Meets tomorrow at 2 P.M. inside 110 Church Farms, 110 Church Street, at Murray Street, lower Manhattan. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. Information: (888) 377-4455.
 
 "OLD 42D STREET, NEW 42D STREET," Manhattan. A historical and architectural walk along the street from Bryant Park to Theater Row. Meets tomorrow at 11:30 A.M. at the southwest corner of 42d Street and Fifth Avenue. Sponsored y the Municipal Art Society. Fee, $15; $12 for members of the Municipal Art Society. Information: (212) 935-3960.
 
 "MILLIONAIRES' ROW" features the residential buildings and private clubs of midtown Manhattan, including the Pierre Hotel and the Knickerbocker Club. Tomorrow at 4:30 P.M. Fee: $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 265-2663.
 
 "EAST VILLAGE TALES AND TAVERNS." A tour of four of the area's historic taverns. Meets tomorrow at 6 P.M. at the Astor Place subway kiosk. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Fee, $10 (does not include cost of refreshments). Information: (212) 969-8262.
 
 "FROM PAGES TO PAVEMENT," Manhattan. Includes locations mentioned in seven novels set in the gaslight era. Meets tomorrow at 2 P.M. at the Washington Square Arch. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Information: (212) 969-8282.
 
 "BROOKLYN BRIDGE AND HEIGHTS AT SUNSET," a walk across the bridge, followed by a tour of Brooklyn Heights. Tomorrow at 5:30 P.M. and Sunday at 2:30 P.M. Sponsored by NYC Discovery Tours. Fee, $12. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331.
 
 GREENWICH VILLAGE WALKING TOUR. A tour of the history and architecture of the area, with stops at the Jefferson Market Library, St. Luke-in-the-Fields Church and the former residences of Aaron Burr, Edith Wharton and E. E. Cummings. Meets Sunday at 1 P.M. at the Washington Arch. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Fee, $10; $8 for students and the elderly. Information: (212) 439-1090.
 
 "HISTORIC HARLEM." A tour that emphasizes the history, architecture and residents of what is often considered the center of African-American culture. Meets tomorrow at 1 P.M. at the Schomburg Center, northwest corner of 135th Street and Lexington Avenue. Fee, $10; students and the elderly, $8. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Information: (212) 439-1090.
 
 "GHOSTLY GREENWICH VILLAGE," a tour that includes Mark Twain's house and the sites of public executions. Meets tomorrow at 6 P.M. at the arch in Washington Square. Fee: $10. Sponsored by Street Smarts N.Y. Information: (212) 969-8262.
 
 "FOODS OF NEW YORK: A WALKING AND TASTING TOUR," Greenwich Village and SoHo, stops at a variety of restaurants. Tours every Saturday at noon and Sunday at 11 A.M. and 2:30 P.M., with different restaurants each week. Sponsored by Foods of New York. Fee: $20 (includes tastings). Information: (732) 636-4650.
 
 "HAUNTED GREENWICH VILLAGE." A tour that includes stops at the Hanging Elm and the Jefferson Market Courthouse Library. Tomorrow at 2:30 P.M. Fee, $5. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Meeting place and reservations: (212) 265-2663.
 
 "A CURMUDGEON'S EYE VIEW OF THE WEST SIDE MOVIE" visits famous and not so well-known film locations in Manhattan. Meets Sunday at 10 A.M. at the Beresford Apartments, 81st Street and Central Park West. Fee: $10. Sponsored by New York Curmudgeon Tours. Reservations: (212) 629-8813.
 
 "THE LOWER EAST SIDE: ENTRY POINT FOR NEW YORK NEWCOMERS." A walking tour through a neighborhood that has changed from a popular center for Eastern European Jewish residents to one with a growing hispanic and Asian population. Sunday at 10 A.M. Tickets, $15. Sponsored by the 92d Street Y, at Lexington Avenue. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 996-1100.
 
 "UPPER WEST SIDE WALKING TOUR" focuses on history and architecture and includes such stops as former residences of Dorothy Parker and Babe Ruth, and the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument. Meets Sunday at 2 P.M. at the southeast corner of Broadway and 70th Street. Fee: $10. Sponsored by New York City Cultural Walking Tours. Information: (212) 979-2388.
 
 "JEWISH EAST VILLAGE" AND "JEWISH LOWER EAST SIDE," lower Manhattan, two tours of areas central to Jewish civilization in America. The first begins on Sunday at 10:30 A.M. inside the Second Avenue Deli at 10th Street. The second, which includes a kosher wine sampling, begins on Sunday at 2 P.M. inside Schapiro's Wine Cellars, 126 Rivington Street. The fee for each is $10. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. Information: (888) 377-4455.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ON THE STREET The 72d annual Feast of San Gennaro in Little Italy, featuring food, games and crafts, continues through Sunday. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (71%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); BIODIVERSITY (90%); COINS & COINAGE (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (89%); HISTORY (89%); FILM (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); HOLOCAUST (87%); SCULPTURE (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); TICKET SALES (72%); WORLD WAR II (65%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (65%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



464 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 32; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Inside Art;
The Hermitage Gets Some Help

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:
The State Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg is so beloved in this country that a group called the American Friends of the Hermitage is presenting the museum's director, Mikhail B. Piotrovsky, with a $100,000 gift when he comes to New York next week for the opening of "Master Drawings From the Hermitage and Pushkin Museums," at the Morgan Library.
The gift will go toward the formation of a new decorative arts department at the Hermitage, the first new department to be established there since 1852. In it the Hermitage plans to display its extraordinary collection of furniture, porcelains, costumes and other decorative artifacts, which have been languishing in storage for lack of exhibition space. 
 But just how far can $100,000 go?
"We need millions," said Dr. Piotrovsky in a telephone interview. "This is part of a larger project which we are calling 'The Great Hermitage.' "
If the project proceeds as planned, the museum will expand significantly, moving its precious collection of Impressionist and post-Impressionist paintings, along with its sculpture, costumes, arms and armor, jewelry and decorative arts collections, into what is called the General Staff Building, a sprawling neo-classical structure directly opposite the Winter Palace in Palace Square, where the Hermitage is located. Dr. Piotrovsky said the project should cost more than $150 million.
The Russian Government owns the building and has agreed to give it to the museum. And so the Hermitage is accepting proposals from developers, becoming involved in feasibility studies and looking for private support. A Russian bank that has survived the recent financial crisis has promised to help, Dr. Piotrovsky said. He added that he was planning to hold an architectural competition for the renovation of the building.
The director also envisions transforming the entire square, including the General Staff Building, into an arts complex with interactive displays, theater, cafes and shops.
"The idea is to make this the center of cultural life here," he said.
Dr. Piotrovsky admits that the museum's original building is antiquated and not up to the highest standards in areas like climate control. But he is determined to think beyond the immediate future.
"If we just try to cover the holes, we will never move forward," he said, adding that the museum also hopes to make improvements in the Winter Palace. "So far we have donations for a new roof and improved lighting. But we have big visions. We are working in all directions."
The museum plans to hold some temporary exhibitions in the new building some time next year.
 
 Two for Sotheby's
 Sotheby's has been on a roll recently.
Earlier this week the auction house obtained about $100 million worth of Impressionist and modern art owned by the Reader's Digest Association. The collection, which includes major paintings and sculptures by Monet, Cezanne, Matisse, van Gogh, Modigliani and Giacometti, was amassed by the company's founders, Lila Acheson Wallace and her husband, DeWitt Wallace. It is to be sold on Nov. 16.
In addition, the auction house has been chosen to sell modern art from the collection of Mr. and Mrs. Morton G. Neumann. Mr. Neumann, who died in 1985, was a Chicago industrialist who, with his wife, Rose, began buying art in the late 1940's. Over the years, they amassed works by Picasso, Miro, Dubuffet, Klee, Giacometti and other artists.
In 1980 the National Gallery of Art in Washington devoted an entire exhibition to the Neumann collection, in the hopes of being given some of the art. But when Mrs. Neumann died earlier this year, the works went to the Neumann family, who chose to sell 27 pieces, expected to bring in between $16 million and $23 million.
The sale is to be held as part of Sotheby' contemporary art sale on Nov. 17.
By far the star of the collection is a Cubist Picasso, "Nude" (1909), which depicts the artist's mistress Fernande Olivier wrapped in a cloth, and is expected to sell for $10 million to $15 million. It had been on loan to the National Gallery in Washington for the last 10 years.
 
Gallery Is Closing
When "Kenneth Noland Circles" closes at the Andre Emmerich Gallery on Oct. 17, so will the 45-year-old gallery, at 41 East 57th Street. Two years ago, Sotheby's bought the gallery and made its staff Sotheby's employees, saying at the time that the gallery would remain open under Mr. Emmerich's direction.
But last year, when Sotheby's bought 50 percent of Deitch Projects, the SoHo gallery started by Jeffrey Deitch, Mr. Deitch was put in charge of Sotheby's 20th-century art program, which included overseeing the Andre Emmerich Gallery. (Mr. Emmerich was made a senior adviser.) And now Sotheby's is closing the gallery.
"In an effort to consolidate our business operations we are moving everything to Deitch Projects on Grand Street," said Matthew Weigman, a spokesman for Sotheby's. "Meanwhile, we are looking at possible spaces to hold exhibitions downtown."
 
Change at Guggenheim
Peter B. Lewis, president and chief executive officer of Progressive Corporation, the Cleveland-based auto insurance company, has been named chairman of the board of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, which administers five Guggenheim museum sites worldwide. Mr. Lewis, a foundation trustee since 1993, succeeds Peter Lawson-Johnston, who will become the foundation's honorary chairman.
In April, Mr. Lewis gave the Guggenheim a cash pledge of $50 million, one of the largest cash gifts ever made to any visual arts institution and the largest the Guggenheim, founded in 1937, has ever received.
"This strengthens our leadership a lot and gives us a powerful triumvirate," said Thomas Krens, the Guggenheim's director, referring to Mr. Lewis, Mr. Lawson-Johnston and Ronald O. Perelman, the foundation's president since 1995.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Picasso's 1909 "Nude" is to go on sale at Sotheby's on Nov. 17. (Sotheby's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RDA (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HERMITAGE MUSEUM (ST PETERSBURG); AMERICAN FRIENDS OF THE HERMITAGE; SOTHEBY'S; READER'S DIGEST ASSN INC; EMMERICH, ANDRE, GALLERY (NYC); GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, FOUNDATION READER'S DIGEST ASSOCIATION INC (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: HERMITAGE MUSEUM (ST PETERSBURG); AMERICAN FRIENDS OF THE HERMITAGE; SOTHEBY'S; READER'S DIGEST ASSN INC; EMMERICH, ANDRE, GALLERY (NYC); GUGGENHEIM, SOLOMON R, FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ART; PHILANTHROPY; AUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); PAINTING (89%); ART DEALERS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ART COLLECTING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); CHARITIES (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); LIBRARIES (71%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (70%); BUILDING RENOVATION (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; WALLACE, DEWITT; WALLACE, LILA BELL ACHESON (1889-1994); NEUMANN, MORTON G; LEWIS, PETER B DEWITT WALLACE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



465 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 33; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1869 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW;
A Great Chinese Leap Into a New Sort of Cultural Revolution

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:
China has changed more quickly and radically in the past few decades than at almost any time in its history. Video installations are being produced in cramped Beijing apartments. Gender-bending performances are taking place in out-of-the-way spots. Calligraphy, that most venerated art, is being put to perverse, absurdist ends. A brash Pop Art is tipping every sacred cow in sight, from Maoist ideology to Western market culture.
Yet scant evidence of this work has found its way to New York. Only a few public institutions -- the Bronx Museum of the Arts, the Alternative Museum, the New Museum of Contemporary Art -- have stayed on top of the news. And commercial galleries have just begun to play catch-up, mostly with samplings of Pop-oriented work. Last year's show at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, "China: 5,000 Years," might have been a watershed. The show was supposed to include 20th-century vanguard work, as an integral part of a historical picture of Chinese culture, but at the last minute the museum canceled that section. Responding to accusations that it was kowtowing to the Chinese Government, the museum said a lack of space prompted the change. 
 But this fall the Asia Society has come to the rescue with "Inside Out: New Chinese Art," an ambitious and stimulating selection of experimental work from the mid-1980's to the present. Spread over two locations -- the Asia Society and the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City, Queens -- the exhibition includes more than 60 artists from mainland China, Taiwan and Hong Kong, as well as from the United States and Europe.
The stylistic range of the material, from ink paintings to videos, is daunting; the messages complex and contradictory enough to defy any ready cultural translation. Attention to the exhibition's wall texts is recommended, and even a little knowledge of China's recent political history, which has done so much to shape its art, will go a long way.
With the Cultural Revolution, which began in 1966, traditional forms like ink painting, long associated with an intellectual elite, and Western modernism were suppressed in favor of Soviet-style Socialist Realism. Both styles were revived when the Maoist era ended in 1976. And with the development in the 1980's of a market economy, already in place in Taiwan and Hong Kong, experimental art flourished.
That robust trend culminated in a huge exhibition at the National Gallery in Beijing in February 1989, titled "China/Avant Garde." But just then the political winds were shifting. The show was closed twice by the Government; the Tiananmen Square crackdown came a few months later. Some artists left the country; others went underground.
The organizer of that show, the critic and art historian Gao Minglu, is also the curator of "Inside Out." Working with Colin Mackenzie, the assistant director of the Asia Society, and Gary Garrels, a curator at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, he has assembled a bracingly eclectic sampling of work arranged loosely by genre or geography.
A good place to begin is at the Asia Society, where a gathering of Pop-inspired paintings opens, appropriately enough, with a triple portrait of Mao Zedong. This 1988 work by Wang Guangyi, an early exponent of Political Pop, is rendered in the blandly realistic style, though in each panel his face is painted over with a black grid.
This irreverent approach to an icon who is still a tremendous presence in Chinese culture caused a sensation when it was exhibited at the Beijing show. But as with so much Chinese work, the attitudes it embodies are elusive, oblique and mutable. Is Mao-behind-bars a prison warden or a captive? A symbol of harsh, bitter experience or of a lost innocence?
Whatever the answer, one certainly picks up the impression of idealism fading fast in the paintings that surround it, and in those produced after 1989, the pessimism seems to deepen. Few if any clear references are made to the Tiananmen catastrophe, but the disorienting impact of a new consumerist economy is evident.
A second painting by Wang Guangyi, a high-colored Warholian concoction from 1993, catches the brittle, black-humor mood. The picture's titanic proletarian figures are lifted straight from Marxist propaganda posters, but are here accompanied by a sleekly calligraphic Coca-Cola logo. In a stroke, two ostensibly irreconcilable though avidly self-promoting ideologies are combined in a style that the show's curator calls Double Kitsch.
The same dynamic is at work elsewhere. In a 1990 painting by Wang Jinsong, middle-class Chinese tourists in Western clothes pose and preen at the Tiananeman gate, where Mao declared the founding of the People's Republic. And in a tragical-comical-historical exercise titled "Tower of the Century" (1996), by Su Xinping, Mao joins peasants, clerks and bathing beauties in a frantic scramble to get to the top of some undefined societal heap.
Another recent pop style, dubbed Cynical Realism, uses grotesque scenarios to indict a society on the slide. But the most memorable pictures defy easy labels. Mao Xuhui's hermetic vision of his windowless apartment looking as pink and moist as an internal organ is one. Another is Zhang Xiaogang's painting of a blank-faced couple holding their infant child. Father and son both wear Mao badges, and all three figures are linked by thin catheters carrying arterial blood in a cross-generational transfusion that suggests both nurturing and depletion.
Pop painting like this has garnered much attention of late; some critics have grumbled that its main purpose is to appeal to an international market. But Chinese art has never run on a single track and it certainly doesn't in this exhibition, in which painting proves to be a multifaceted medium.
In a section devoted to ink-and-brush work at P.S. 1, for example, the artists Fang Tu, Yan Binghui and Zhang Yu explore the delicate line between landscape and abstraction. And in a room-filling ink scroll by Ren Jian titled "Primeval Chaos" (1986-87), the time-honored mountain-and-stream motif is turned into a mutating universe of fantastic grandeur.
A mix of Dada and Chan (Zen) Buddhism reigns in the work of the conceptual artist Huang Yong Ping, who lives in Paris and was short-listed for this year's Hugo Boss Prize. In a piece recreated from the 1980's, he responds to the Chinese faith in the expressive power of the artist's hand with a roulette-wheel method for composing paintings entirely by chance. (Zhang Peili, another influential early figure, is also included in the conceptual-art section of the show.)
Calligraphy, from which Chinese painting stems, and language are similarly challenged and transformed. Wenda Gu and Xu Bing, who live in New York City, contribute spectacular installations based on invented scripts and words. Wu Shan Zhuan, a Beijing artist, plasters a room with political texts, Buddhist scripture and advertising slogans to create a disjunctive found poetry. And Qiu Zhijie copies a passage of classical calligraphy 1,000 times on a piece of paper, blackening the page in a cultural homage that is also an act of obliteration.
Among the several disciplines that Mr. Qiu's piece touches on is performance art, which finds many exponents in the show. Most of their work is represented by photo-documentation, though two provocative figures, Zhang Huan and Ma Liuming, are scheduled to make appearances at P.S. 1 on Oct. 18.
The androgyny that Mr. Ma projects in his nude performances typify an infusion of overtly sexual content in recent Chinese work, very much against the puritanical Maoist grain. It shows up not only in paintings, but also in homoerotic videos by the Long-Tailed Elephant Group (Xu Tan, Chen Shaoxiong, Liang Juhui and Lin Yilin) and in the X-rated soundtrack for an installation of Cultural Revolution-era wedding pictures by Wang Peng.
Mr. Wang's multimedia piece appears in a section at P.S. 1 devoted to "apartment art," a label for underground work made and exhibited in artists' homes. The results are often modest in scale, portable (as is an ephemeral installation by Liu Xiangdong and a series of Buddhist-inspired photographs by Song Dong) or, in some cases, composed of domestic materials.
Such is the case with work by two of the exhibition's few women. One of them, Lin Tian-miao, wraps everyday kitchen utensils in endless layers of twine. The other, Yin Xiuzhen, who is a high school teacher as well as an artist, has unraveled yarn from two piles of mass-produced sweaters, one made for men, the other for women, and re-knitted them into unisex garments.
All but one of the other women in the show are from Taiwan. (The exception is Phoebe Man, who also goes by Man Ching Ying, from Hong Kong.) They include Yuan Jai, at 60 the show's senior contributor, who gives traditional floral scroll painting a Cubist twist; Chen Hui-chiao, with an installation of roses pierced with acupuncture needles, and Wu Mali, whose installation in the second-floor gallery at the Asia Society uses text and video to turn a tragic moment in Taiwan's history into a feminist lament.
The distinctive quality of Taiwanese work was explored last year in a New York show organized by the late art historian Alice Yang, and it is borne out here. One sees the influence of local folk art and myth in the raucous figurative paintings of Hou Chun-ming and Huang Chih-yang. Wu Tien-chang's portraits surrounded by kitschy light-up frames are reminders of Taiwan's Western ties, while Chen Shun-chu's collection of hundreds of photos of family and friends underscores the desire of an island culture to confirm a rooted identity.
Self-identity is also a force behind Hong Kong's avant-garde, which was galvanized by the colony's shift to Chinese control last year. And much of the art on view -- an installation by Kum Chi-keung of mechanized birds flying between cages; a video by Ho Siu-kee of the artist balancing precariously atop two rubber balls; a set of ornamental boxes labeled "gifts from China" by Danny Ning Tsun Yung -- seems to be a direct response to that event.
And "seems to be" is an essential qualifier in the context of this show. Nothing is simple; apparently straightforward pieces carry specific histories, meanings and emotions that are difficult for outsiders to access. But visual delights abound and they speak for themselves: from an ornamental robe cast in translucent plastic by Wang Jin to Hong Hao's daft transcultural guidebook for 21st-century life to an installation by Cai Guo-qiang in which a full-size fishing boat, bristling with arrows, floats in midair.
There is a story behind Mr. Cai's piece, explained in a wall text, and suffice it to say, the work's ingredients of myth, humor, global consciousness and possibly nostalgia create an arresting but unanswering blend. The same can be said of this tip-of-the-iceberg show as a whole. By design, it represents only one side of contemporary work in China (traditional art forms are still practiced), and it poses as many questions as answers. But there is no question that it is a benchmark achievement on which future exhibitions will build.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Zhang Xiaogang's "Bloodline: Family Portrait" (1994), above, and a 1993 blend of Communist and capitalist motifs by Wang Guangyi, both at the Asia Society. (Asia Society)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (92%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: ASIA SOCIETY INSIDE OUT NETWORKS (54%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (83%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASIA SOCIETY THE ASIA SOCIETY (83%); THE ASIA SOCIETY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (92%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); PAINTING (89%); HISTORY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); FILM (78%); 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND MAO ZEDONG (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



466 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
THE YEN REBOUNDS. Japan's currency snapped a three-day slide against the dollar, reflecting concern that Latin American economic weakness could hurt the United States. In New York, the dollar fell to 132.18 yen from 134.90.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since March 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); JAPAN (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



467 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Cites Lower Bank Loan Standards

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
Banks are exposing themselves to increased levels of risk as 1998 loan underwriting standards declined for the fourth consecutive year, a Federal regulator said today.
The slackening standards were led by commercial loans that typically make up 55 percent to 60 percent of a bank's balance sheet. 
 "Banks are leaving themselves with fewer options to control the risk associated with commercial lending should the economy falter," the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said.
The annual survey of Office of the Comptroller of the Currency examiners at the 77 largest banks taken in the second quarter found easier commercial loan standards at 69 percent of banks compared with 59 percent in 1997.
"Examiners said they expect the level of risk inherent in bank loan portfolios to increase over the next 12 months," the survey found.
Edward Kelley, a Federal Reserve governor, said loans that were appropriate during good times might not be appropriate if the economy soured.
"We have to be careful as this expansion is now seven years old," Mr. Kelley said after a Congressional hearing on year 2000 computer problems in the banking industry.
The office said there was pronounced easing of standards in syndicated loans, middle-market lending and real estate portfolios.

 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; CREDIT COMMERCIAL LENDING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); SYNDICATED LOANS (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (51%); 

PERSON: DAVID DAVIS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



468 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasury Prices Stage a Rally As Investors Seek Safe Havens

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury bond prices rallied yesterday as investors sold stocks and sought the safety of United States Government securities.
The 30-year bond rose 22/32 , to 104 29/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dropped to 5.18 percent, from 5.22 percent on Wednesday. 
 In the last three months the 30-year bond's yield has fallen more than half a percentage point, or 50 basis points, as global stock markets tumble, Russia's economy falters and investors grow more concerned that the financial crisis might spread to Brazil. They are now at their lowest level in 30 years. (A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.)
Bonds were bolstered by a Government report showing that consumer prices were little changed during August and a regional Federal Reserve survey indicating that manufacturing activity is beginning to slow.
Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said, "The rally in the bond market continues, spurred by increasing evidence of an economic slackening, a continued auspicious inflation outlook, a flight to quality resulting from declining stock prices, and the growing market perception that a near-term Fed easing move is clearly on the horizon."
He said that testimony by the chairman of the Fed to the House Banking Committee on Tuesday did not add much to previous comments about the vulnerability of the nation to the global crisis, nor shed any light on whether the policy-making group will change interest rates when it meets Sept. 29. Mr. Fine predicted that at that meeting the Federal Open Market Committee will adopt a bias toward easing from a neutral stance. Whenever the Federal funds rate, which has remained at 5.50 percent since March 1997, is lowered, Mr. Fine said it would in all likelihood be a 25-basis-point cut, as the Fed tends to move slowly.
In the junk-bond market, the Cal energy Company, an electricity generation and distribution company, sold $1.4 billion of senior notes in four parts, breaking a monthlong drought of new sales in the junk-bond market.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax Exempt Yields" shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, since May 1998. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INFLATION (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); DEBT NOTES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (61%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD FINE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



469 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Widens; Consumer Prices Up 0.2%

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
The trade deficit widened 2 percent in July as exports fell for the fourth consecutive month, while consumer prices changed little in August, Government figures released today showed.
Those findings, together with two other reports that showed a decline in jobless claims and a rise in workers' incomes, suggested that -- outside of a slowdown in manufacturing -- the economy was holding up well in its eighth year of expansion, analysts said. 
 "There's enough momentum to keep the economy going despite the weakness in manufacturing," said Cynthia Latta, an economist at Standard & Poor's DRI in Lexington, Mass.
The Commerce Department said today that the trade deficit in goods and services grew to $13.9 billion in July after having narrowed in June to a revised $13.6 billion. Exports fell 1.3 percent, to $75.4 billion, the lowest level since February 1997, reflecting a drop in shipments of auto parts, industrial supplies and consumer goods. Imports fell eight-tenths of 1 percent, to $89.3 billion, the lowest since November, as purchases of autos, foods and industrial supplies declined -- and prices paid for imports of crude oil dropped to their lowest level since 1986.
In a separate report, the Labor Department said that consumer prices rose only two-tenths of 1 percent last month, the same as the July increase, as higher apparel prices were almost offset by a decline in gasoline costs. In the first eight months this year, consumer prices rose at a 1.6 percent annual rate, the same as in the first eight months of 1997.
Another report today showed that 299,000 workers filed for state unemployment benefits last week, down from 314,000 a week earlier, in part because government offices were closed for the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 7.
Workers' average weekly earnings, adjusted for inflation, rose half a percent in August, the Labor Department said, suggesting that there was little reason to expect a falloff in consumer spending. The increase in August was bigger than July's gain of one-tenth of 1 percent and was the largest since May.
Today's trade report showed that the deficit stood at $92.5 billion in the year's first seven months, up from $63.24 billion a year earlier. For all of last year, the deficit was $110.21 billion. At the current pace, the trade shortfall for all of 1998 is on target to reach $158.6 billion, exceeding the record $153.3 billion in 1987.
The deficit with China, a major source of clothing and household products for American consumers, increased to $5.42 billion in July and exceeded the deficit with Japan for the first time since September 1997.
The merchandise deficit with Japan, the United States's second-biggest commercial partner behind Canada, narrowed to $5.17 billion in July from $5.25 billion in June, as exports grew at a faster pace than imports.
The deficit with Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea rose to $2.62 billion in July from $2.41 billion in June and $806 million in July 1997.
The deficit with Western Europe increased to a record $5.12 billion in July. The deficit with Canada increased to $1.91 billion.
The inflation report showed that energy prices, which account for about one-tenth of the Consumer Price Index, fell 1 percent in August. Energy prices were unchanged in July.
Apparel costs increased 1.1 percent in August, the largest rise since a 1.5 percent gain in March 1990, as clothing retailers introduced fall and winter merchandise.
Food prices, which make up about one-fifth of the index, increased two-tenths of 1 percent in August, the same as in July. Transportation costs were unchanged, housing costs rose one-tenth of 1 percent, medical-care costs grew four-tenths of 1 percent and new-car prices rose three-tenths of 1 percent.
The slowdown in Asia has helped curtail demand for most raw materials and driven prices down. The Commodity Research Bureau index, which tracks the prices of 17 commodities, fell in August to the lowest level in nearly 21 years.
That has been a boon to consumers in this country because domestic companies are better able to hold the line or even reduce prices for the merchandise they sell.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) STANDARD & POOR'S DRI (71%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); STATISTICS (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); GASOLINE (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); SHIPMENTS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (71%); US LABOR DAY (67%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



470 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Dow Declines by216.01 as Part of a Global Downturn

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
Stock prices tumbled around the world yesterday after overseas investors digested word that central banks are planning no coordinated cut in interest rates to quell financial and economic turmoil in Asia, Latin America and Russia.
The prospect of the release of President Clinton's videotaped grand jury testimony in the Monica S. Lewinsky matter and Japanese banking problems also weighed on stock markets, which skidded to a 12 1/2-year low in Tokyo and finished nearly 5 percent lower in Brazil after a plunge twice that much halted trading. 
 Foreign turmoil quickly spread to the United States, where the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 200 points in the first half-hour before steadying for the rest of the day. It closed down 216.01 points, or 2.67 percent, to 7,873.77. The loss broke a string of four straight gains, the first since late June, and pushed the blue-chip indicator back into negative territory for the year.
Although Wall Street seemed only mildly disappointed when Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, told Congress on Wednesday afternoon that there were no current efforts to coordinate an interest-rate cut, overseas markets reacted by selling off sharply, and this pressure spilled over into the United States markets.
Some analysts here said they thought Mr. Greenspan, along with the Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, had sought to avoid comments that could have reduced pressure on the House to approve $18 billion to replenish depleted aid coffers at the International Monetary Fund.
The House refused to consider the full amount anyway. Instead, it approved only $3.4 billion.
Sooner or later, predicted Alfred E. Goldman, chief market strategist at A. G. Edwards in St. Louis, "The I.M.F. will get their funding. We have no choice."
Still another factor affecting trading was today's quarterly "triple witching" phenomenon, when options and futures contracts expire.
European markets slumped across the board, but the greatest fall was in France, where the CAC 40 index fell 5.47 percent after Alcatel, the communications giant, warned of lower profits, citing the crises in Asia and Russia. Shares dived 12 1/16 , to 19 1/4, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Leading indexes tumbled 4.99 percent in Germany and 3 percent in London, also reflecting fears of lost business with economically distressed countries.
In Japan, the Nikkei index fell 338.56 points, or 2.38 percent, to 13,859.14, its lowest point since March 1986. Government leaders worked deep into the night to find a way to reorganize the debt-laden Japanese banking system. Stocks fell 3.61 percent in Hong Kong.
After absorbing the early selling, United States markets fluctuated in a relatively narrow range by recent standards, but almost nothing escaped the downdraft. All 30 Dow stocks posted losses, as did 424 of the issues in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which dropped 2.55 percent for the day.
The Nasdaq composite index, dominated by technology stocks, slumped about the same amount, 2.58 percent, with Microsoft down 3 1/4, to 104 15/16 , and Cisco Systems down 3 1/8, to 61 1/2.
Without minimizing the buffeting from overseas forces, many analysts said they were not surprised by yesterday's retreat after four sizable advances and said they remained upbeat.
"It's pulling back into its recent bottoming pattern," said Richard T. McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch. "It was probably entitled to give some back after the nice bounce off 7,500" on the Dow. He said the index could reach the mid-8,000's within a month.
Financial stocks were pummeled once again, especially major banks with big exposure to emerging markets. Citicorp slumped 6 1/4, to 96 1/2, and J. P. Morgan was the biggest contributor to the Dow's decline, falling 5 1/2, to 89 3/4. American Express lost 3 3/16 , to 83 7/8.
Gillette, which warned of lower sales on Wednesday, saw its stock skid 3 5/16 yesterday as Merrill Lynch trimmed its estimate of the company's earnings to between $1.30 and $1.35 a share for this year and $1.55 for 1999, 5 cents less than before. The shares closed at 36 7/8 after trading as high as 62 21/32 in early April.
Procter & Gamble, another blue chip that warned recently of weaker results, fell 3 yesterday, to 67. Other prominent decliners were Lucent Technologies, which dropped 4 7/16 , to 72 1/8, and Northern Telecom, which fell 6 1/16 , to 39 1/2.
Declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange swamped gainers by nearly 5 to 1 as 255 made new lows compared with only 21 new highs.
Volume was moderate at 692.56 million shares, well below that of most recent sessions. Traders said they spotted no surge of activity related to the unwinding of positions in advance of today's triple-witching expiration of futures and options.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since Sept. 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (67%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FRANCE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (67%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX STOCK INDEXES (94%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FUTURES (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); TESTIMONY (72%); APPROVALS (69%); GRAND JURY (57%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR BILL CLINTON (73%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



471 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Russia's New Leaders Plan to Pay Debt by Printing Money

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 17

 BODY:
Russia's new Communist-influenced Government indicated today that it plans to satisfy old debts and bail out old friends by printing billions of new rubles, a decision that drew a swift and strong reaction from President Boris N. Yeltsin's old capitalist allies.
The deputy head of the central bank said today that the bank intends to bail out many of the nation's bankrupt financial institutions by buying back their multibillion-ruble portfolios of Government bonds and Treasury bills. The Government temporarily froze $40 billion worth of notes when the fiscal crisis erupted last month because it lacked the money to pay investors who hold them. 
 Asked by the Reuters news service how the near-broke Government would find the money to pay off the banks, the deputy, Andrei Kozlov, replied: "Emissions, of course, emissions." "Emissions" is a euphemism for printing money.
Hours later in Washington, Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers told a House subcommittee that Russia was heading toward a return of the four-digit inflation rates that savaged consumers and almost toppled Mr. Yeltsin's Government in 1993.
Russia's new leaders cannot repeal "basic economic laws," he said.
"They must resist pressures to spend and lend which will doom the economy to another bout of high, perhaps hyperinflation," Mr. Summers said. "Just as important, they need to take on the failings of the financial system and finally put in place the core institutions and policies of a private market economy."
Perhaps most pointedly, Mr. Summers spoke out against what he said was the pervasive corruption hobbling not just the economic system, but the evolution of democracy. It is up to Russia, he said, to show that its fiscal policies will affect the lives of ordinary people, and "not just enrich offshore bank accounts."
Today's actions, against the backdrop of continued jockeying between Communists and capitalists in the new Government, suggested that actions favored by Mr. Summers and other free-market economists are increasingly a long shot.
Mr. Summers also said that it was unlikely that the $4.3 billion second tranche of an International Monetary Fund bailout package for Russia would be paid as planned.
In contrast to the dire warnings of Mr. Summers and Russian reformers, however, a team of western European government ministers in Moscow today said that the West should wait before passing judgment on Mr. Primakov's economic intentions.
"We have the impression that the Russian Government has absolutely no intention to engage the reverse gear in any shape or form," said Germany's Foreign Minister, Klaus Kinkel, at a news conference with Austrian and British officials.
Mr. Kinkel said Mr. Primakov fears, "not entirely without grounds," that failure to deal with social spending could lead to a political explosion here.
Austria's Foreign Minister, Wolfgang Schuessel, also advised caution. "Give them a chance," he said. "I have the impression there is a readiness on their side to act."
The central bank's proposed bailout would offer a special deal to bankers, including the so-called oligarchs who frequently built vast financial empires around banks that have since fallen on hard times.
Under the plan, banks would move to the front of a long line of domestic and foreign investors who bought Government bonds only to see their prices collapse when the crisis struck.
Western experts generally argue that the major beneficiaries of such a bailout would be financiers, not the economy, since almost none of Russia's banks have built the extensive network of checking, savings and consumer-lending services that are a building block of western trade. Instead, most have plowed their money into buying industries or speculative investments.
The central bank's statement was not the only suggestion today that Russia's Government is about to embark on a serious spending program. President Yeltsin told his defense advisers to prepare to pay soldiers and other military workers half of the 16 billion rubles in back wages that they are owed. At today's exchange rates, that totals about $500 million.
Some of the reformers whose hopes for free-market capitalism here collapsed with the August fiscal crisis were acid in their criticism of the new Government today. Boris Y. Nemtsov, a Deputy Prime Minister until recently, greeted the apparent turn in fiscal policy with sarcasm.
"To print a lot of money, that's the first message," he said. "To print money, that's the second message, and to print money, that's the third message," he told Reuters Television.
And in Moscow, the head of the American Chamber of Commerce in Russia said American companies already have lost a half billion dollars during this crisis -- and are heading for the exits because they do not like the look of the new financial scene. The same tensions over the fiscal policy of the new Communist-capitalist Government hobbled efforts today to fill out the last positions in President Yeltsin's new Cabinet.
Mr. Yeltsin said he may miss the legal deadline of Friday for finishing selection of his new Cabinet because he needs more time to choose a Finance Minister. The acting Finance Minister, Mikhail M. Zadornov, was a leader among the free-market advocates in the last Cabinet whose push for full-fledged capitalism broke down with the financial crisis.
Few believe that Mr. Yeltsin's new Prime Minister, Yevgeny M. Primakov, will keep Mr. Zadornov in the Government, and there were fresh indications today that Mr. Primakov's men may nudge other reformers out as well.
The new Deputy Prime Minister, Aleksandr Shokhin, repeated his statement of Tuesday that Boris Fyodorov, another key reformer who was a Deputy Prime Minister and head of the state tax service, had quit. Mr. Fyodorov, who developed a reputation for pugnacity as tax collector, was quiet after Tuesday's announcement. But today he dispatched an aide to effectively dare Mr. Primakov to fire him.
"I have strong nerves and will not resign," he said.
If he does go, it will be viewed by many as an indication that the new Government is moving further from western-style economic policies that encourage competition and fiscal restraint and toward Communist tenets such as state control of industry and greater spending on welfare, even at the cost of inflation.
The flip side of those concerns, however, is that failure to spend money on such pressing demands as back wages for soldiers will only increase the already mounting prospects for social or political upheaval.
One of the major reasons Russians have diminishing confidence in their Government is that it has failed to provide basic services such as pensions, welfare and wages to state employees. At least some of those payments have gone by the wayside because Mr. Yeltsin's last two Governments, committed to keeping inflation low, have refused to print money to pay for services the Government could not otherwise afford.
The Communist Party is organizing what it promises will be a peaceful mass protest against the Yeltsin Government for Oct. 7. But its leaders have said they cannot keep a lid on popular anger if the Government does not begin to respond to citizens' demands. Today Mr. Yeltsin ordered his Interior Ministry to make preparations to keep public order during the protest and to prevent certain types of actions, such as blockades of railways, that could disrupt the economy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers, center, warned a House subcommittee yesterday that Russia faces skyrocketing inflation. Also testifying were Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott, right, and former Secretary of State George Shultz, who spoke from California. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND LAWRENCE H STEIN (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; FOREIGN AID; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INFLATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H (DEPUTY SEC); TALBOTT, STROBE (DEPUTY SEC); SHULTZ, GEORGE PRATT; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



472 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate;
A 48-Story Tower for a Low-Rise Neighborhood

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
A luxury rental apartment building that will be a commanding presence in its low-rise East Side neighborhood is now under construction and will eventually rise 48 stories above the pavement at 10 East 29th Street.
The $105 million building, known as the Madison Belvedere, will have 400 studio to two-bedroom apartments, many with balconies and unobstructed city views. It will take shape on a vacant midblock lot between Madison and Fifth Avenues opposite the landmark 19th-century Church of the Transfiguration, also known as the Little Church Around the Corner. 
 Rose Associates is developing the project, which is scheduled to be completed in January 2000. It is being financed with a construction loan from Fleet Bank as well as the developer's own money.
"The site had the Rose name scratched in the dirt," said Adam R. Rose, executive vice president of Rose Associates. "It was empty and ready to go, allowing us to buy and build immediately, which we love to do."
Rose Associates bought the site, which extends to 28th Street, in December for $15 million from the Sisters of Mary Reparatrix. The sisters, a Roman Catholic order of nuns who once lived in a convent on the site, had contracted to sell it in 1984 to an earlier development team led by Richard N. Kalikow, said Edmund J. Burns, a Manhattan lawyer who represents the sisters.
In 1985, the 29th Street convent was demolished. Then the recession hit, and over the years, the previous developers, unable to secure financing, never moved forward with development plans, Mr. Burns said.
The project, between the Flatiron and Murray Hill residential neighborhoods, represents the return of Rose Associates to the area, where the company helped start a revival in 1981 with the construction of Madison Green, a 423-unit condominium at 23d Street and Broadway. The site is also close to the midtown business district, which Mr. Rose described as "underserved" in housing.
Zoning rules permitted a 28-story building on the site, which is flanked by the 12-story Carlton Hotel and a 26-story office building. By buying the air rights from nearby buildings, Rose Associates was able to increase the tower by 10 stories, to 38 floors. The developer was allowed to add 10 more stories by agreeing to create a public plaza along 28th Street. Designed by the landscape architect Thomas Balsley, the quarter-acre plaza is to include a large circular lawn at its core, two seating areas and a garden.
The air rights and plaza bonus "allowed us to set the building 15 feet from the street and go straight up," resulting in a slender rather than a broad tower, said Peter Claman, who, with James Davidson, designed the project. Both are with the Manhattan architectural firm of Schuman Lichtenstein Claman & Efron.
"The extra height," Mr. Rose said, "made the project more economically desirable and gave the building more stature in the skyline."
Rose Associates initially considered building the Madison Belvedere using state financing as a mixed-income rental -- in which 80 percent of the units would be rented at market rates and the remaining 20 percent would be rented to low-income tenants.
As with any project that would use state funds, the building was reviewed by the New York State Office of Historic Preservation for its affect on state and national historic resources in the area, in this case the Little Church Around the Corner. The concern centered on the shadows to be cast by the taller building onto the 1849 Gothic Revival-style Episcopal church.
The state's review concluded that the new building "will not significantly increase the shading of the church above that historically found at that location," said Julian W. Adams, historic sites restoration coordinator at the State Historic Preservation Office.
"The trade-off," he added, "is the building of one tower rather than a forest of towers, securing the preservation of the entire neighborhood."
Rose Associates ultimately received private financing for the project, allowing all 400 units to be rented at market rates. Mr. Rose said he expected the Madison Belvedere to draw tenants who want a Manhattan pied-a-terre or an apartment close to where they work, mainly business executives and professionals, as well as some foreign renters. It will have mostly studio and one-bedroom units as well as some two-bedroom units; apartments will range from 524 to 1,335 square feet.
Amenities planned include a health club and garage parking. Monthly rents have not yet been set, but Mr. Rose said that if leased today the units would rent for about $45 a square foot a year.
That is competitive with new and existing apartment buildings in the 20's and 30's, where rates range from $36 to $50 a square foot, said Andrew Heiberger, president of Citi Habitats, a rental brokerage concern. A typical 650-square-foot one-bedroom costs $2,383 a month, or an average of $44 a square foot a year, he said.
The Madison Belvedere has been designed to fit in with its historic neighbors. The building's five-story base will have accents of granite and limestone, "recalling, without mimicking, the sensitive detailing of the church across the street," said Mr. Davidson, the architect.
The rest of the building will be brick with occasional horizontal bands of decorative limestone, or limestone-colored brick, and topped by a gold-domed crown that will be lighted at night.
"Because the tower is going to be seen, accentuating it seemed the appropriate solution," Mr. Davidson said.
The building, he said, will join the company of nearby prewar office towers with distinctive crowns, including the Metropolitan Life Building, the New York Life Insurance Building and the Empire State Building.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An architect's rendering of what the new apartment tower will look like on 29th Street. (Schuman Lichtenstein Claman & Efron)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & LAND DEVELOPMENT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ROSE ASSOCIATES ROSE ASSOCIATES INC (92%); FLEET BANK-NH (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROSE ASSOCIATES

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; APARTMENT HOUSES MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ZONING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (75%); RELIGION (70%); LAWYERS (68%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE ADAM R ROSE (90%); MADISON BELVEDERE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



473 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: MARKET PLACE;
The Man Who Moves, and Scares, Markets

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
When Alan Greenspan talks, the market listens. And most of the time it doesn't like what it hears.
In the last two years, on 31 occasions, the Federal Reserve chairman has testified before Congress on a variety of matters. On 21 of those dates, almost 70 percent of the time, the market fell immediately after his testimony. 
 Make that 22. The markets fell drastically in the United States and around the world on the first full day of trading after Mr. Greenspan's testimony on Wednesday, in which he told the House Banking Committee that there was no coordinated effort among the world's central banks to cut interest rates.
Investors were clearly disappointed that Mr. Greenspan presented no solutions to the economic problems that have terrified many of the world's markets. "I was disturbed that the comments Mr. Greenspan made about the changes that need to be made were all in the future tense," said M. Cary Leahey, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics Ltd. in Valhalla, N.Y. "He gave the impression that he was no closer to solutions than he was in December."
Mr. Greenspan's comments were just the latest in a long line of disappointing utterances, at least where investors are concerned. That the stock market falls fairly consistently when the Fed chairman speaks is an indication that stock buyers think he's the market's version of a wet blanket.
To be sure, investors have come to love Mr. Greenspan for his ability to keep the economy on course. Until this summer, negative reactions to his comments were temporary, usually lasting less than a week. But his testimony before Congress on July 21 came only two trading days after the broad stock market averages reached their peaks. Since then, it's been rough sledding for shareholders.
Tracking what happens to stocks after the Fed chairman's testimony -- what might be called the Greenspan effect -- comes courtesy of Tom McClellan, of The McClellan Market Report, a technical analysis investment advisory service based in Lakewood, Wash. Mr. McClellan went back to 1996 for his research and included only those occasions when Mr. Greenspan addressed Congress.
"It seems to be his personality that he has been able to talk down the market with words rather than actions," Mr. McClellan said. "But it is funny how the market and investors hear what they want to hear in the words that cross his lips."
Mr. Greenspan's speech at the University of California at Berkeley two weeks ago, which ignited the market on Sept. 8, is a prime example of investors' hearing in the Fed chairman's comments exactly what they want to hear. Even though the speech gave only the hint that a rate cut might be forthcoming, the market rallied by 380 points.
Most of the time, though, Mr. Greenspan drives the market down with his talks. For example, on July 18, 1996, he appeared at his twice-yearly question-and-answer session with Congressional committees -- known as Humphrey-Hawkins testimony. He reminded the lawmakers that even if the nation was indeed in a new economic era, as many were arguing, inflation could still threaten economic stability and growth. For the next three days, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 2.1 percent.
On Jan. 21, 1997, Mr. Greenspan addressed the Senate Budget Committee. The only fretting he did in this talk was to worry about a possible pickup in wage costs. The Dow lost 3.3 percent of its value in the next five trading days.
This year, the chairman has been especially talkative. He has testified before Congress 15 times to date; in all of 1997, he spoke on 14 occasions.
So far in 1998, on nine occasions investors have reacted negatively to Mr. Greenspan's testimony; on three occasions, they liked what they heard. Twice, the market had no reaction at all.
Mr. McClellan has limited his research to Congressional testimony. "When I looked at the dates of his speeches that were not testimony," he said, "there wasn't as good a correlation for what the market did afterward. Routine speeches to the Rotary Club or the University of California don't have the same effect on the market."
The Greenspan effect could, of course, be a calculated one. "He's been trying to let air gently out of the balloon for nearly two years now," Mr. Leahey said, referring to inflated stock prices. "The market has listened to him for a day and then has forgotten what he said two days later." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTEREST RATES (74%); TRENDS (73%); BONDS (70%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; GREENSPAN, ALAN ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



474 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: Travelers and Citicorp Plan To Cut Jobs

BYLINE: By PETER TRUELL 

 BODY:
In the first of what is expected to be major layoffs at financial companies, Citicorp and Travelers Group Inc. -- which plan to merge into Citigroup Inc. -- confirmed yesterday that they would eliminate several thousand jobs, many in New York City.
The cuts, which the two companies declined to specify either by number, percentage, or location of jobs, are expected to be spread across the combined company, which currently employs more than 160,000 people. 
 Citicorp and Travelers executives who declined to be identified by name said that the cuts were likely to fall particularly hard on businesses that have been hit by the recent decline in financial markets, such as the issuing and trading of bonds and equities, and in areas that overlap such as foreign exchange trading, credit card services, data processing, headquarters' staff and human resources.
Many of these businesses are based in and around New York City -- where the two companies now employ 28,000.
Several New York companies, including Merrill Lynch & Company and other big banks and brokerage houses, were also expected to announce layoffs, crimping, or even halting, a run of several years of prosperity for New York, where financial services had become an increasingly important part of the economy.
Furthermore, 100,000 of the projected Citigroup work force is based in this country, so the brunt of the expected retrenchment at the financial behemoth is likely to fall on Americans.
And the cutbacks will not stop with Citibank and Travelers if the global economic turmoil continues.
"If this environment continues I would expect all the companies I follow -- the banks with big broker dealers -- to rethink their staffing," said Diane B. Glossman, bank analyst at Lehman Inc., referring to the recent downturn in financial markets. "J. P. Morgan already announced a program earlier this year; Bankers Trust is already revamping its business; Bank of Boston already restructured in Europe and Asia."
The swoon in financial markets had led to frequent speculation that Citibank and Travelers might even call off their pending merger, which had yet to obtain the required approval from the Federal Reserve Board. The company they are proposing to create would offer banking, insurance, brokerage and other financial services to companies and individuals in 100 different countries.
"The company is being very circumspect," said Judah Kraushaar, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "They're saying it's up to the Fed. He added, "From my own point of view, there's a high probability the deal will close in October."
Citibank and Travelers refused yesterday to confirm various reports, first carried on CNBC television, that the two companies would eliminate 5 percent of their combined work force, or about 8,000 jobs, by the end of this year. But John M. Morris, a spokesman for Citibank who said he also spoke for Travelers, acknowledged the cuts "may be as much as that." He said that he could not confirm the 8,000 number, which he said had been "plucked out of the air," or the related report that 5 percent of the companies' combined work force would be cut by the end of the year. But the spokesman said those numbers were "directionally correct."
Analysts said such cuts were to be expected and that they might well involve more than 8,000 jobs, or 5 percent of the combined companies' work force. "My own hunch is that this is a piece of something that'll be broader," Mr. Kraushaar said, adding: "I don't find this surprising at all. There is a lot of bureaucracy in a bank that you don't find in a company like Travelers."
Ronald I. Mandle, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, the brokerage firm, said, "We thought the cost saves were going to be greater than what the companies were talking about" at the April merger announcement. "We thought it was more like $600 million, rather than the $400 million they were talking about," he added.
Ms. Glossman, the Lehman analyst, said: "There are clear opportunities to cut spending and cut right up front. I would not be surprised to see more than 5 percent of the staff involved."
Seeking to play down yesterday's speculation of layoffs, Mr. Morris said: "There is no companywide goal. Each manager has been asked to look for efficiencies, and to see that their costs are in line with any revised business expectations they would have."
As far as specific numbers are concerned, Mr. Morris added, "We are not prepared to say that, because it's vague at the moment." He also stressed that the cost-cutting was not a single program but a host of different initiatives, some dating from before the announcement of the merger. About a year ago, Mr. Morris said as an example, Citicorp announced a program of 7,500 layoffs, which he said is now "about half done."
Sanford I. Weill, the chairman of Travelers, and John S. Reed, the chairman of Citibank, made no comment yesterday.
But Mr. Weill addressed a gathering of investors and analysts at the St. Regis Hotel in Manhattan on Wednesday. The financier -- who rose through the brokerage business to build up a huge insurance, brokerage and financial services conglomerate -- made no bones about the combined companies' intention to cut costs. According to Mr. Morris, he told the conference: "We all get spoiled in good times. We probably say 'yes' too many times. And we'll probably be saying 'no' too many times and that will be good. It's time to plan for the worst and pray for the best instead of the reverse."
The company's top executives seem to have been preparing its employees and the markets for more austerity. "We have to operate a company in bad weather as well as in good weather," James Dimon, Travelers' president and chief operating officer and a key lieutenant of Mr. Weill's, told investors recently, according to Mr. Morris. "A company should be successful in adverse conditions."
"No one has had an opportunity to be ebullient for very long in this environment," Mr. Morris said. "Business conditions are not what they were on April 6 when we announced our merger."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (96%); C (BMV) (96%); 8710 (TSE) (96%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITIBANK; TRAVELERS GROUP INC; CITIGROUP INC CITIGROUP INC (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITIBANK; TRAVELERS GROUP INC; CITIGROUP INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCKS AND BONDS LAYOFFS (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (73%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%); 

PERSON: TRUELL, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



475 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
House Votes Small Fraction Of Money Sought for I.M.F.

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
The House tonight approved only a fraction of the nearly $18 billion that President Clinton is seeking for the International Monetary Fund.
The action, which prompted a Presidential veto threat, left the agency in limbo as the I.M.F.'s reserves dwindle and economic crises spread. 
 The Senate has approved the full amount, and there is still a chance that when both houses meet in the next few weeks to iron out their differences on this and other issues, they will agree to provide the Clinton Administration's full request.
But even if they do, the lending agency's financing is tied up with other contentious matters, such as restrictions on international family planning, that have also drawn veto threats. So, full funds are by no means certain.
Many in the House say they have doubts about the I.M.F.'s internal integrity and the use of American taxpayer money for what they say are risky overseas investments the agency makes without proper accountability.
Republican leaders had blocked the House from considering the $17.9 billion requested as it took up a $12.5 billion bill that finances many of the nation's overseas assistance programs. The G.O.P. leaders wrote rules to include only $3.4 billion for the agency, procedurally blocking an attempt by Democrats to provide the additional $14.5 billion sought by the President.
The overall foreign operations bill provides economic assistance for international groups such as the World Bank and the Export-Import Bank, aid to former Soviet republics and money for the Peace Corps.
The legislation includes language barring United States assistance to foreign groups that perform abortions or violate abortion laws of foreign countries.
There was no separate vote on the agency financing, but the overall bill passed tonight, 255 to 161.
Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, who is leading the opposition, said that the bill, which provides $316 million less than this year's levels, reduced the President's flexibility and in terms of vision and money, failed to fulfill the nation's role as a global power.
Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon, Republican of New York, speaking of the I.M.F. legislation, said the public resents giving money to countries like Russia that are bad investments, where the money will "go in the front door and out the back door."
Arguing for the full amount, Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin, said: "How long do people in this House think we can survive as an island of economic success in a world of economic chaos? The answer is, not very long."
The Administration said in a statement that failure to provide the full amount would undermine the United States' global leadership and expose workers, businesses and farmers to unacceptable economic risks.
"The President would veto the bill if it were presented to him in its current form," said the statement, a carefully calibrated phrasing that carries less weight than a quotation from the President himself but is more forceful than the more typical statement, which couches such threats as recommendations by advisers.
The veto threat is only the latest of several issued by the Administration on 13 spending bills now moving through Congress. The bills are supposed to be passed and signed by Oct. 1, the start of the new fiscal year. Both the House and the Senate bought themselves some extra time today, voting to finance all Government programs at the current year's levels through Oct. 9. The action puts off Congress's annual confrontation with the White House for nine days.
In the daylong debate in the House, members argued most heatedly over whether to repeal a ban on all American assistance to the former Soviet republic of Azerbaijan. The Administration wanted Congress to lift the ban, saying it had hindered United States negotiators in appearing neutral in the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia.
Opponents, who prevailed, argued that lifting the ban would reward a corrupt regime that has engaged in ethnic cleansing.
Most strenuous in favor of the repeal was Representative Bob Livingston, Republican of Louisiana and chairman of the Appropriations Committee. Some members suggested that Mr. Livingston seemed to be carrying the banner for American oil companies, which are seeking a share in a hugely lucrative pipeline through the Caspian Sea region -- and are also a vital force in Mr. Livingston's New Orleans district.
Mr. Livingston conceded during the debate that oil companies "might" benefit from lifting the ban, but, he said, so would the industrialized Western world.
Representative David E. Bonior, Democrat of Michigan and the minority whip, declared, "The big oil lobby has dollar signs in its eyes."
The House voted 231 to 182 to keep the ban in place. The measure is not part of the Senate's foreign operations bill, and its fate in the eventual House-Senate conference is uncertain.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF KOREA (66%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VETO (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FAMILY PLANNING (70%); TRENDS (69%); ABORTION (63%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); DAVE OBEY (58%); NANCY PELOSI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



476 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: City's Jobless Rate Shrinks to 7.3%, Lowest Since 1990

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
With the booming economy creating more jobs than at any time since the 1950's, New York City's unemployment rate tumbled to 7.3 percent in August from 9.3 percent a year ago, the State Department of Labor said yesterday.
The city unemployment rate, which edged down again last month, is now at its lowest level since 1990. While the unemployment rate in the city remained higher than the national average, its 2-percentage-point drop far outpaced the dip of three-tenths of 1 percent in the national average in the last year. 
 Nationally, unemployment in August averaged 4.5 percent, down from 4.8 percent in August 1997. Statewide, unemployment fell to 5.1 percent from 6.2 percent in the same period.
In the last year, the city has added more than 87,000 new public and private sector jobs, an increase of 2.6 percent. "To find that, you'd have to go back to the 50's," said Jim Brown, a labor market analyst for the state. The survey did not include self-employed workers, agriculture workers or domestic workers employed by private households.
While commuters have accounted for some of the city's gain in jobs, city residents have also increasingly found employment -- 54 percent of the adults who live in the city were working last month, Mr. Brown said. The last time so many people were working, as a percentage of the population, was in late 1989, he added.
The new jobs came in almost every sector except manufacturing, Mr. Brown said. Employment grew on Wall Street and in services like accounting, and new jobs were also created at construction sites, stores, hotels and airlines.
City officials hailed the strength and breadth of the expansion. "It's an explosion of jobs in New York," said Deputy Mayor Joseph J. Lhota. And, he contended, the numbers show "that we have a very diversified economy -- this is not being fueled just by Wall Street."
As the stock market continues to fluctuate, charges that the city relies too much on Wall Street have become an increasingly sore point for city officials, particularly since some securities firms have recently announced big losses in overseas markets.
Last month, the State Comptroller's office issued a report warning that the city had "to an unprecedented extent" become dependent on Wall Street in the 1990's. While securities firms employ only about 5 percent of the people who work in the city, these workers account for more than 17 percent of total earnings.
And some critics of city policies say that the surge in jobs is leaving behind many people without college degrees, especially women who have been forced off welfare. The current unemployment rate "still leads other urban areas, and it's a significant problem for us because this is the top of the boom," said David R. Jones, president of the Community Service Society of New York, which has just published a report on the city's labor market.
The society's report said that fewer people of working age had jobs in New York than in other urban areas, although Mr. Jones conceded that this had been the case for two decades. "Merely saying, 'That's the way it's always been' may not be a sufficient guide for economic policy," he said.
Among the fastest-growing areas of the state were Putnam and Rockland Counties, where jobs surged by 6,400, or 5.3 percent, in the last 12 months, state data show. On Long Island, 24,000 jobs were added over the last year, 2.2 percent rise.
By contrast, Rochester lost jobs, as did several rural areas, including Greene and Sullivan Counties.
The unemployment rate was lowest in upstate Tompkins County, which includes Ithaca, at 2 percent. It was highest in the Bronx, where unemployment was at 9.2 percent, down from more than 11 percent a year ago.
The other boroughs reported similar percentage drops over the 12-month period to August. The jobless rate dropped to 8.6 percent from 10.6 percent in Brooklyn, to 6.2 percent from 7.7 percent in Manhattan, to 6.3 percent from 8.3 percent in Queens and to 6.9 percent from 9.2 percent on Staten Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FARM LABOR (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); AGRICULTURE (52%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE JAMES NATHANIEL 'JIM' BROWN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



477 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Approves Republicans' $80 Billion Tax Cut Plan

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
The House Ways and Means Committee passed an $80 billion Republican tax cut today, setting up a confrontation with President Clinton over how the nation should take advantage of its return to fiscal health.
Defying Mr. Clinton's insistence that projected Federal budget surpluses be set aside until Congress and the Administration have settled on a plan to shore up Social Security, the committee voted 23 to 15, largely along party lines, to dip into the surplus to pay for a package of tax reductions likely to have broad appeal to the middle class. 
 Amid a rancorous debate over how to use the surplus, Democrats admitted that they were sorely tempted to support the tax cut, both because it has many provisions they have pushed for and because it is less than two months before a Congressional election. But in the end only one of the committee's 16 Democrats, Representative Barbara B. Kennelly of Connecticut, who is running for governor and lagging in the polls, sided with the Republicans.
Despite a vow today by Mr. Clinton to veto it, the tax bill is expected to pass the full House as soon as next week. It will then go to the Senate, where its prospects are uncertain. The bill has the support of most of the Senate's 55 Republicans and could attract some Democrats. But under the Senate's procedures it will need 60 votes to pass because it will require a waiver of budget rules to permit use of the surplus.
Today's committee vote was an important test of Mr. Clinton's ability to hold his party together on politically difficult issues as he struggles to avoid impeachment.
His call to preserve the surplus has been the centerpiece of Mr. Clinton's domestic policy agenda this year, and any widespread defections by party members on the issue would have signaled concern among Democrats that the President could no longer provide them the cover they need to vote against popular tax cuts in favor of the more nebulous benefits of fiscal restraint.
The bill was tailored by Republicans to have broad middle class appeal, and its main provision is a break for married couples. It would raise the standard deduction for couples filing jointly to $8,600, from $7,200. The change is intended to address the so-called marriage penalty, the quirk in the tax code that leads many two-income couples to pay bigger tax bills than they would if single.
The bill would exclude from taxation the first $400 of interest and dividend income for couples filing jointly, and $200 for single filers. It would accelerate the timetable under which self-employed people will be able to deduct their health insurance costs and speed a gradual increase in the amount of an estate exempted from Federal taxation.
It would make changes intended to insulate moderate-income families from the effects of the alternative minimum tax, which was designed to apply to wealthy taxpayers but increasingly results in a tax increase for working families. To appeal to farm-state legislators, the measure would provide tax breaks to farmers and ranchers who have been hit by a downturn in agriculture. And to address the concerns of lawmakers from poor districts, it would create tax incentives for redevelopment programs.
Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who heads the committee, said the bill would preserve nearly 90 percent of the coming budget surpluses -- projected by the Congressional Budget Office at $1.55 trillion over the next decade -- while trimming a tax burden that by some measures is the highest since World War II.
"It sets money aside to save Social Security and it gives middle-income Americans the tax relief they need and deserve," Mr. Archer said, adding that the tax cut might also boost the economy at a time when the global financial crisis threatens to slow growth in the United States.
Republicans also said Mr. Clinton's demand to save the surplus for Social Security was hollow since the Administration had proposed using the surplus to pay for emergency spending for the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia, strengthening security around American embassies and preparing for the year 2000 computer problem.
Democrats said it would be irresponsible to start spending the surplus on tax cuts before the nation determines how to deal with the coming financial shortfall in the Social Security system.
Moreover, they said, nearly all of the surplus for the next 10 years will come from the payroll taxes that are supposed to be earmarked for Social Security. Not until 2006 will the Government start to run a significant surplus without counting the excess Social Security payments.
"If it wasn't for the Social Security trust fund, we wouldn't even be showing a budget surplus," said Representative Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan, the committee's senior Democrat. "The surplus belongs to Social Security. It's not a spare cookie in the bottom of the jar there for the taking."
Several hours before the vote, Mr. Clinton, in a speech to a labor union group, said using the surplus would send the wrong signal to the world about the nation's fiscal and economic stability at a time of increasing global financial turmoil. But mostly, he said, it would make it more difficult to make up the looming shortfall in Social Security, which although healthy now will run short of money in about 30 years after the baby boom generation retires.
"Some of our friends in the other party say that, well, we're projecting a surplus and it's close to the election, so let's give everybody a tax cut," Mr. Clinton said.
"I don't care how close it is to the election," he added, "it is wrong to do that until we have solved this problem."
Although the Republican leadership continues to hope that it can win over enough Democrats to push the bill through the Senate, White House officials said Mr. Clinton was trying to signal to his party today that whatever his other problems he was not going to back down or compromise, burning Democrats who have stuck with him on the issue.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS REPUBLICAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX RELIEF (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); FAMILY (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); MARRIAGE (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



478 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Spending Bill Hurt by Bid on Foreign Farm Hands

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
A proposal to ease the hiring of foreigners at harvest time is clouding prospects for Congressional approval of a spending bill for the Commerce, Justice and State Departments.
An amendment to the $27.4 billion spending bill is being pushed by farm-state senators who say the process for hiring foreign farm workers, most from Mexico, is slow and burdened by red tape. As a result, some lawmakers say, farmers face the dilemma of seeing their crops go unharvested or hiring foreigners who lack permission to work. 
 One expected result of the amendment would be more foreign workers, and therefore pressure to keep wages low. While the amendment would require growers to pay American farm workers the prevailing wage in a given area, critics contend that those wages could drop if the legislation is approved.
The amendment would also require American farm workers to list themselves in a central job registry and get their jobs through a referral from that registry. And it would eliminate the requirement that growers provide housing for guest workers, although farmers would have to give these workers a housing allowance. This would mean that rural communities would have to build housing for workers.
Opponents of the measure, including labor unions, Hispanic civil rights groups and the Labor Department, say it is an effort to hold down wages of migrant workers by bringing in low-income Mexican field hands. The opponents also argue that the measure weakens guarantees that American farm workers would still be provided jobs, good housing and a decent wage. And opponents point to studies by the General Accounting Office and private economists indicating that there is no agricultural labor shortage.
Critics of the measure have urged the White House to threaten a veto of the spending bill if the amendment is enacted. They hope the threat would persuade House-Senate conferees to drop the amendment to help gain support for the spending bill.
The amendment's chief sponsor, Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, said he was willing to modify his bill to address some of the opponents' concerns, and Clinton Administration officials met with him on Tuesday in an effort to work out their differences. But a White House official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that "people are still far apart."
Passage of the bill is already jeopardized because of controversy over preparations for the 2000 census.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. FARM LABOR (96%); LEGISLATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); VETO (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); PREVAILING WAGES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: RON WYDEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



479 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Time for Central Bank Action

 BODY:
With the world economy growing at the slowest pace in decades -- and many countries in recession -- only the countries that are growing the fastest are in a good position to help the world economy before the problems engulf us all. But there is a great reluctance to act.
This week there was brave talk of coordinated action among the G-7 countries to stimulate world growth, and it appears that finance ministers in many of those countries are persuaded that action is needed. But the two most important central banks in the world -- the Federal Reserve and Germany's Bundesbank -- do not appear ready to take coordinated action to reduce interest rates. 
 That hesitation is understandable considering that each central bank's legal duty is to help its own national economy, and neither Germany nor the United States appears to be in imminent danger of recession -- at least based on their own domestic economies. The greatest problems are in countries whose central banks cannot cut interest rates to stimulate growth, simply because to do so would be to invite the collapse of their own currencies.
Were there a world central bank, there is little doubt that it would be leaping to action in an effort to spur growth. Bridgewater Associates, a Connecticut-based economic consulting firm, reports that world growth is now at a 30-year low, despite the fact the American economy has grown 3.6 percent over the past year. The figure for the rest of the world was a scant 0.3 percent.
Countries that are doing well are likely to see a flood of cheap imports from those economies that are in trouble, raising the threat that developed countries will retreat toward protectionism. Already, with the trade deficit growing, the American steel industry is demanding that duties be placed on low-cost steel arriving from Asian and Russian producers who have seen their former Asian markets dry up. The state of South Dakota, reacting to the complaints of farmers, is trying to hamper the importation of Canadian grain and livestock.
In an atmosphere of low commodity prices around the globe, inflation is not the threat it was even a few years ago. Fears of inflation should not now prevent interest rate cuts by central banks. Such moves could help to offset the decline in global economic growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN STEEL FOUNDRIES (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); RECESSION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



480 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Three Questions

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
President Clinton has forced the members of Congress to face three questions, whether or not the American people will like the answers:
Two of them have already been answered. Like most Americans I have been struggling with my own answer to the third question, or was fleeing it. 
 The first question: Is Mr. Clinton fit to remain President? There may be reasons that Congress considers important enough to allow him to serve out his term -- but fit, no.
A man who risks the Presidency of the U.S., its moral and political worth in American life, the confidence of the people in it, its very ability to function under his direction, all to satisfy himself sexually for the moment, is not stable enough within himself to be entrusted with America.
Perhaps we would all lie to save ourselves from deep sexual embarrassment and trouble. But if we did so under oath and then lied again and again about it, we would know we would have to do more to escape jail than tell the judge we were real sorry.
Still, if this were his first lie . . . But it isn't. He has lied so often that it has become another sign of a broken rudder.
He lied during the Presidential campaign -- the draft notice matter. Then he went on to lie to the American people about their own national interests -- how he would fight for human rights against the Communist Chinese dictatorship, how Saddam Hussein was complying with U.N. inspections at the very time Iraq was preparing to end inspection, whether high-tech missile sales to Beijing could compromise U.S. security.
Jesse Jackson said in 1992: "I can maybe work with him but I know now who he is, what he is. There is nothing this man won't do. He is immune to shame. Move past all the nice posturing and get really down in there in him, you find absolutely nothing . . . nothing but an appetite."
Senator Bob Kerrey, the Nebraska Democrat, was a bit gentler: "Clinton's an unusually good liar, unusually good."
Both quotes come from William J. Bennett's solidly valuable new book, "The Death of Outrage -- Bill Clinton and the Assault on American Ideals" (The Free Press). Read it, particularly if you are sure you won't agree.
Second question: Has Mr. Clinton's risk-taking already so deeply damaged the Presidency that it cannot be repaired while he is in office?
This week I heard him give a speech at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York about the world's economic crisis and how "it is time for us to rise to our responsibility."
I thought: You call on us to rise to our responsibility? Other members told me they had the same thought. One just snickered and made a dirty joke out of the sentence.
The military cashiers or imprisons members who commit adultery, particularly with subordinates. How in decency will William Clinton take the salute from the men and women he commands while he whines not to be punished for the same offense, repeated and repeated?
Millions of Americans still want him in office. That does not change the truth that he has made the Presidency a bottle of cynical poison for many of us and a dirty joke for the country. Damage enough.
Third: How do we repair the damage as best we can?
A motion of Congressional censure would endorse Mr. Clinton's definition of responsibility. Take the chance whatever the risk. If caught, plead for compassion. If handed an act of censure, bite your lip in sorrow. Then when you pass the troops in parade keep a straight face.
The final choice, impeachment by the House of Representatives and a removal trial by the Senate -- that's frightening to most of us.
For about two years, a new President would be in office while Russia fell apart, Saddam incited war and terrorists scouted America. How strong would he be?
We do not know if Al Gore would be any better in office than Mr. Clinton. But then we never do know about a Vice President who becomes President, do we? Maybe he will stop echoing Mr. Clinton's apologies and evasions. Maybe he will be Truman!
But we would know that under the Constitution we removed an unfit man who risked and soiled the Presidency while shaming himself personally. And we will have given Bill Clinton what he needs most -- the choice in private life to keep rocking in waves of his own making or recover the stability he has so long lost.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (54%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (54%); 

SUBJECT: IMPEACHMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ETHICS (70%); INSPECTIONS (69%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (64%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ROSENTHAL, A M BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%); JESSE JACKSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



481 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Issue Encroaches on Schumer's Senate Run

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: SYRACUSE, Sept. 17

 BODY:
In Washington today, the House Judiciary Committee debated whether to release to the public videotapes of President Clinton's grand jury testimony in the Monica Lewinsky case. Here in central New York, one of the committee's most prominent Democrats, Representative Charles E. Schumer, was touring a factory that makes cat litter, soberly noting the economic distress of this downtrodden region and proposing a series of measures to create jobs.
Two days after Mr. Schumer won the Democratic nomination to challenge Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, the Judiciary Committee deliberations served as a reminder of a major complication Mr. Schumer is facing in his campaign to become New York's next junior Senator. And it goes beyond the man currently holding that job. 
 As President Clinton's difficulties escalate, Mr. Schumer finds himself balancing the conflicting demands of his campaign, which Democrats consider one of the most promising in the nation, and his obligations as one of 15 Democrats on a committee on the verge of historic deliberations. The situation is potentially more perplexing because Mr. Schumer has long been close to Mr. Clinton and has viewed his association with the President as a political benefit.
Mr. Schumer said today that he had no regrets about missing today's debate. He noted that the Judiciary Committee was divided along party lines over whether to disclose the tapes. Mr. Schumer also contended that the debate in Washington did not involve great constitutional issues, but rather partisan maneuvering by Republicans out to embarrass a Democratic President.
"Those are a bunch of shenanigans down in Washington," Mr. Schumer said, standing on the rooftop of an Arm and Hammer factory here with a sweeping view of industrial New York at his back. He said he would oppose the release of the videotapes of Mr. Clinton's grand jury testimony. "We certainly should have the process go forward," Mr. Schumer said. "But releasing these tapes with these salacious-type materials is not moving the process forward.
"You know what moving the process forward is?" Mr. Schumer continued. "Talking about creating jobs in central New York. Talking about fighting crime."
Mr. Schumer declined to say what he would do if the Judiciary Committee moved to being impeachment proceedings. Asked if he might step down from the committee so he could press on with his campaign, he responded, "I'll cross that bridge when I get to it."
Even today's debate, though, happened at a less than propitious time for Mr. Schumer, who is enjoying what is unquestionably the best political week of his career. The 48 hours after a primary victory -- especially for a victor who had faced long odds, as Mr. Schumer did in defeating Geraldine A. Ferraro and Mark Green -- are usually a guaranteed burst of free and almost invariably good publicity.
Tonight Mr. Schumer introduced a series of strikingly harsh television advertisements attacking Mr. D'Amato. They accuse the Senator of lying in asserting that Mr. Schumer was a proponent of big tax increases. Each advertisement ends with this line: "D'Amato: too many lies for too long."
In Washington, Mr. D'Amato left little doubt that he would try to make the most of Mr. Schumer's predicament with the Judiciary Committee. Even as the panel began its deliberations, Mr. D'Amato, who spent the day in an unsuccessful effort to push for passage of his bill to restrict automated teller machine fees, issued a news release saying that Mr. Schumer had missed 100 votes this year.
Asked the Senator's position on releasing the videotapes, Mr. D'Amato's press secretary, Harvey Valentine, responded: "This is a matter properly before the Judiciary Committee, which has all the facts. Chuck Schumer should do his job. If and when this matter comes to the Senate, the Senator will do his job."
Mr. Schumer's advisers are, by all indications, just starting to assess how possible Judiciary Committee hearings could disrupt the campaign. One associate, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, suggested that Mr. Schumer might actually benefit from this, listing members of Congress -- from former Representative Elizabeth Holtzman to former Senator Howard Baker Jr. -- who became famous because of their televised roles in the Watergate hearings.
"Think about the potential to put a spotlight on him," this associate said. "These could be live, televised hearings."
But if Mr. Schumer's position on the Judiciary Committee could give him valuable television exposure, it also threatens to keep him out of New York for a good deal of time, and that could be a problem. One of the first questions posed by a Syracuse reporter to Mr. Schumer today was why he had campaigned so infrequently there.
There are other ways hearings could complicate Mr. Schumer's candidacy. More than most Democrats, Mr. Schumer has made clear that he wants Mr. Clinton to campaign with him in this state. It is hard to imagine that happening if Mr. Schumer is serving on the committee that is considering whether to recommend impeachment proceedings against Mr. Clinton.
And the prospect of hearings makes it likely that Mr. Schumer will be pressed to answer more questions about Mr. Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky, a situation that Mr. D'Amato's advisers said they welcomed. Today, for example, Mr. Schumer spent an hour touring the Arm and Hammer plant, which manufacturers cat litter and laundry detergent, and then climbed to the roof to offer a detailed review of his economic proposals. Those include using any money from a tobacco industry settlement to finance a property tax cut, deregulating the power industry to try to lower electricity costs here, and using part of a Federal surplus to reduce Social Security taxes.
But that is not what Brenda Tyler, a television reporter with WTVH, the CBS affiliate in Syracuse, wanted to ask about after Mr. Schumer finished his speech. "You are on the Judiciary Committee," Ms. Tyler said. "Why are you here instead of making that important vote?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) HOUSE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WITNESSES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); GRAND JURY (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); IMPEACHMENT (73%); CAT LITTER MFG (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); 

PERSON: NAGOURNEY, ADAM; SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) BILL CLINTON (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



482 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

3 Ex-Archer Executives Convicted of Fixing Prices
Three former executives of Archer Daniels Midland -- including the son of its powerful chairman, Dwayne Andreas -- were found guilty of engaging in an international conspiracy to fix the prices of a widely used additive for animal feed. 
 The verdict by a Federal jury in Chicago marked an important victory for prosecutors and capped a six-year effort by the Government to crack an illegal cartel and to bring participants in the conspiracy to trial. The investigation and trial have been declared hallmarks by the Government, which said it upended a conspiracy that controlled the prices of $1 billion in commerce. Page A1.
 
$3.4 Billion Approved for I.M.F.
The House approved only $3.4 billion of the $18 billion that President Clinton is seeking for the International Monetary Fund. The action left the agency in limbo as its reserves dwindle and economic crises mount around the world. The Senate has approved the full amount, and there is still a chance that when both houses meet over the next few weeks to iron out their differences they will agree to provide the full request. C2.
 
Bond Yields Continue Their Slide
Treasury bond prices rallied as investors sold stocks and sought the safety of Government securities. The yield on the 30-year bond dropped to 5.18 percent, from 5.22 percent on Wednesday, its lowest level in 30 years. In the last three months the 30-year bond's yield has fallen more than half a percentage point. C5.
 
Bayer to Acquire Unit of Chiron
Bayer, the German drug and chemical giant, will buy the American diagnostics business of Chiron for $1.1 billion and 50 percent of the farm seed subsidiary of Crompton & Knowles. Bayer also said it would raise money for reorganization by selling to the public up to 75 percent of its Agfa-Gevaert unit. C16.
 
Amendment Slows Spending Bill
A proposal to make it easier for farmers to hire foreigners, most from Mexico, at harvest time is clouding prospects for Congressional approval of a spending bill for the Commerce, Justice and State Departments. A20.
 
House Panel Passes Tax Cut Bill
The House Ways and Means Committee passed an $80 billion Republican tax cut, setting up a confrontation with President Clinton. A20.
 
Banks More Exposed to Loan Risk
Banks are exposing themselves to increased levels of financial risk as 1998 loan underwriting standards declined for the fourth consecutive year, according to an annual survey by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. C4.

Trade Deficit Grew 2% in July
The trade deficit widened 2 percent in July as exports fell for the fourth consecutive month, while consumer prices changed little in August, Government figures showed. Those findings, together with two other reports that showed a decline in jobless claims and a rise in workers' incomes, suggested that the economy was holding up well in its eighth year of expansion, analysts said. C5.

Nike Profit Drops 35% in Quarter
Nike, the world's top seller of athletic footwear, said its profit dropped 35 percent in the first quarter because of sluggish sales in Asia. C4.
 
Agencies Go on a Buying Spree
Several agencies and agency companies are making acquisitions, including Keroff & Rosenberg, Tempus Group, Hadtke Associates, Bozell Worldwide and Western International Media. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C4.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,873.77 down 216.01
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.18% down 0.04
The Dollar -- 132.18 yen down 2.72
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows percent change in housing starts, since Feb. 1998. Expected figures for August: -3.2%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (92%); BAYN (FRA) (84%); BAY (MCE) (84%); BAY (BIT) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (92%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (92%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (92%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (92%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (92%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (92%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (92%); BAYER AG (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PRICE FIXING (92%); VERDICTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CARTELS (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); APPROVALS (88%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (88%); INDECENT EXPOSURE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); LIVESTOCK FEED (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); ANIMAL FOODS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CHEMICALS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); TAX LAW (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%); FOREIGN LABOR (61%); CHEMICALS MFG (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



483 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
New Government in Russia Plans to Print Rubles
Russia's new Communist-influenced Government indicated that it planned to satisfy old debts and bail out old friends by printing billions of new rubles. In Washington, Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers said Russia was heading toward a return to four-digit inflation. A3
 
Kenya Bomb Suspect Charged
Federal authorities charged that the bombing of the United States Embassy in Kenya was orchestrated by Haroun Fazil, left, an Islamic extremist from the island nation of Comoros who reported directly to Osama bin Laden, a Saudi exile. A1 

Reaction to Cease-Fire in Spain
Spain's conservative Government and the opposition Socialist Party both responded cautiously to a cease-fire announced by the Basque guerrilla group E.T.A. A7
 
Iran Tightens Reins on Press
Iran has closed a leading daily newspaper and arrested its top editors for publishing articles deemed detrimental "to the country's national interests and security." A12
 
Kurds Unite Against Hussein
The State Department said it had brokered a settlement between two feuding factions of Iraqi Kurds, uniting them against the Government of Saddam Hussein. A8
 
Tests Find No Nerve Gas
Swiss and French tests for a poison gas on Iraqi missiles appear to have reached results contrary to those from American tests that showed the presence of VX, a deadly nerve agent, diplomats said. A8
 
Palestinian Youths Are Shot
A Palestinian teen-ager was killed and another was wounded in the West Bank when a Jewish settler fired at a group of youths. A8
 
Massacre in Mexico
Gunmen dressed in black and carrying assault rifles pulled three families from their homes and shot at least 20 men, women and children against a wall. The police called it a drug-related massacre. A6
 
Mexico's Attorney General promised to conduct a "profound" investigation into possible corruption among top officials of an elite, American-trained police unit and said Mexico's drug-enforcement cooperation with the United States would continue without interruption. A6
 
Challenge to Burmese Rulers
A small group of opposition politicians challenged the military rulers of Myanmar by saying that they would act as the country's legitimate parliament and declaring all laws and proclamations issued by the ruling junta null and void. A8
 
Chinese Dissidents Detained
Two dissidents in China who were about to submit an application to register a political party were detained and questioned by the police and instructed not to proceed with their request. A5
 
NATIONAL A14-26
 
Move to Give State Dept. Control of Satellite Exports
House and Senate negotiators agreed to shift control over the exportation of American satellites back to the State Department from the Commerce Department, in a challenge to President Clinton's export policy. A1
 
Report of Panel on Race
President Clinton's advisory board on race relations will deliver a report that offers four major recommendations, chiefly the creation of a permanent Presidential council on race. A1
 
Struggle Over Clinton Tape
The House Judiciary Committee wrangled over whether to make public a videotape of President Clinton's grand jury testimony in the Monica Lewinsky case and how to edit reams of pages delivered by the independent counsel. A1
 
A Washington minister is the third clergyman who will counsel President Clinton as part of a pastoral "accountability group." A22
 
The leaders of the Democratic and Republican committees that help finance campaigns for the House of Representatives promised to withhold money from candidates who attack the private lives of their opponents in the November election. A23
 
Most Americans approve of the way Congress is doing its job over all, but they disagree with the decision to release all of the independent counsel's main report, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll. A22
 
House Vote Is Sought on Reno
Representative Dan Burton, who is leading an investigation of political fund-raising practices, said he was seeking a full House vote on a contempt of Congress resolution against Attorney General Janet Reno in a dispute over whether an independent counsel should examine President Clinton's 1996 campaign. A16
 
Panel Supports Tax Cut
The House Ways and Means Committee passed an $80 billion Republican tax cut, setting up a confrontation with President Clinton over how the nation should take advantage of its return to fiscal health. A20
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Judge Extends Rights For Some Foster Parents
A Federal judge in Manhattan ruled that some foster parents and children have the same constitutionally protected right to their relationships as birth parents have when officials try to remove the children. B1
 
Anti-Gay Crimes on Rise
Reports of bias crimes against gay men and lesbians have risen 81 percent this year, the police said, even as overall crime has dropped. B2
 
Serious Crime in Schools Dips
Assaults, robberies and other serious offenses reported in city schools declined slightly last year, but the total number of incidents from the most serious to the mundane showed a sharp increase, according to school officials, who cited better reporting of incidents. B3
 
Census Undercounts in City
A study by a Democratic research group showed that the three greatest undercounts in the 1990 census occurred in Congressional districts in Manhattan, Brooklyn and the Bronx. B6
 
A Return to Harlem
Falling crime rates, relatively low housing prices, striking residential architecture and signs of economic renewal have led to a surge in young African-American lawyers, doctors, professors and bankers moving back to Harlem and other historically black neighborhoods. A1
 
WEEKEND E1-30; E31-44
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES A27
 
Junius Kellogg
A Manhattan College basketball player in 1951 whose refusal to accept a bribe to fix the score of a game touched off the widest betting scandal in the sport's history, he was 71. A27
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-18
3 Executives Are Convicted
Three former Archer Daniels Midland executives were found guilty of engaging in an international conspiracy to fix the prices of an additive for animal feed. A1
 
Combined Work Force to Be Cut
Citicorp and Travelers Group, which are preparing to merge to become the country's largest financial company, confirmed that they would eliminate several thousand jobs. C1
 
Markets Are Sent Reeling
Stock prices tumbled around the world as the realization sunk in that central banks were planning no coordinated cut in interest rates to quell turmoil in Asia, Latin America and Russia. The Dow dropped 216.01 points, or 2.67 percent, to 7,873.77. C5
 
House Cuts I.M.F. Financing
The House approved a fraction of the $18 billion that President Clinton is seeking for the International Monetary Fund, prompting a threat of a Presidential veto. The Senate has approved the full amount. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
EDITORIAL A28-29
 
Editorials: Rancorous diversions in Congress; time for central bank action; too long to wait at the U.N.; sustain the 'partial birth' veto.
 Columns: A. M. Rosenthal.
 
Crossword E44
 
Weather D5
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KENYA (93%); SPAIN (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CHINA (92%); COMOROS (79%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); KENYA (93%); SPAIN (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); CHINA (92%); COMOROS (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (88%); EXPORT CONTROLS (84%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); AL-QAEDA (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); RELIGION (70%); SHOOTINGS (69%); PUBLISHING (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (64%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (60%); FIREARMS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (65%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



484 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE SPEAKER;
Gingrich Dodges Spotlight, He Is in Charge

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
At a news conference on education legislation, the first question put to Speaker Newt Gingrich this morning involved the White House scandal.
Mr. Gingrich snapped at the questioner. "We in the Congress are actually focusing on substance," he said. "Yesterday, I spent less than 45 minutes total on the topic that interests you most." 
 That is the pose the Speaker has tried to assume all week: the impartial observer waiting for his lawyers on the Judiciary Committee to sort out the facts and set the policy on how to deal with President Clinton's transgressions, while he deals with the people's business.
But behind the scenes, other Republican lawmakers said, not a step is taken or a decision made without the approval of Mr. Gingrich, possibly the most partisan and certainly the most dominant Speaker in the last generation.
"Look, the Speaker is the Speaker," said the chairman of an important committee who insisted on anonymity. "He calls all the shots. If tapes are going to be released, it's his decision. If hearings are going to be held, he will decide. He consults with us. He listens to us. But he makes the calls."
At a closed meeting of House Republicans on Wednesday, Representative Nancy L. Johnson of Connecticut expressed concern about the release of sexually explicit portions of the videotape of the President's grand jury testimony.
Mr. Gingrich -- angry, according to the accounts of some who were there, or merely firm, according to those of others -- leapt to his feet and declared that the House had already voted to make the material public and that Republicans were not going to back down in the face of complaints from the White House and Democrats in Congress. Mr. Gingrich called the President a "misogynist," a person who hates women.
At the same meeting, Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon of upstate New York, the chairman of the Rules Committee, repeated a point Mr. Gingrich had made in a speech last week and reminded his colleagues that House rules did not permit language in floor debates that ridiculed or otherwise abused the President.
There was a smattering of boos, clearly in jest, from the back of the room, said people who were there. Mr. Gingrich, they said, declared sternly that decorum in the House was not a laughing matter and that he would not allow the rules to be abridged.
When Mr. Gingrich walked out of the meeting and into a gaggle of reporters and cameras, he made a conspicuous show of talking about other issues -- trade and the economy -- and even praised Mr. Clinton's efforts to renew world economic growth.
When reporters persisted in asking questions about impeachment and videotaped testimony, Representative John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, pushed the Speaker from the microphone so that staff members could usher him away.
"It is very important to us that Newt lie low," said a Republican representative from the Southeast. This Congressman explained that Mr. Gingrich often came across to the public as strident and even mean and that if the Speaker allowed himself to stand at the forefront of the Clinton inquiry, the President and his allies would benefit by making him a lightning rod for their criticism of Congress.
Mr. Gingrich is under conflicting pressures. The firebrands among the backbenchers want to go after President Clinton with all the artillery in the House's arsenal. But the Speaker's political advisers are telling him, a former staff assistant said, that if he has any ambition to become President, this is his opportunity to dispel a reputation as a hothead and adopt the mien of a statesman.
One Republican Congressman suggested half-seriously that the most advantageous step the Speaker could take would be to save Mr. Clinton's Presidency.
"It might not be best for the country," the Congressman said, "but they would have a cripple as President going into the next election, and Newt would go down as a profile in courage."
With all that in mind, Mr. Gingrich tended carefully this week to the ceremonial and legislative aspects of his job.
He spoke at a conference on missile defense, received a Hispanic Heritage Leadership Award and another award from the Community Antidrug Coalition, met with chief executives of some of the United States' largest companies, attended news conferences on education, agriculture policy and prayer in schools, appeared on the Capitol steps with representatives of Habitat for Humanity and taped an interview for a cable television documentary on the 100 people who have the most influence on American society.
For the most part, Mr. Gingrich stayed on message, but occasionally he let slip oblique mentions of the subject that must be on his mind, too.
Speaking extemporaneously at a news conference on Wednesday about a proposed constitutional amendment allowing organized prayer in public schools, he declared, "In this city today, we have the specter of a scandal large enough that it should be driving all of us to prayer."
And this morning, to mark the 211th anniversary of the signing of the Constitution, he gave a one-minute speech on the House floor during the period set aside for members to address any subject of their choice. Mr. Gingrich said the framers of the Constitution had been determined to show "once and for all that the age of kings was over, that all men and women are under the law -- none is above it, and none is below it."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN OF OHIO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF OHIO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WITNESSES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); LAWYERS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); APPROVALS (69%); GRAND JURY (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



485 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Accounts

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:

* American Skandia, Shelton, Conn., a unit of Skandia Insurance Co. Ltd., to Weiss, Whitten, Stagliano, New York, to handle its account, which had been handled in-house. Billings were estimated at $5 million. 

* Trex Co. L.L.C., Winchester, Va., to Carmichael Lynch, Minneapolis, part of the Interpublic Group of Cos., to handle advertising for the marketer of wood polymer decking lumber, which had been handled by Stoner Bunting Advertising, Lancaster, Pa. Billings were estimated at $3 million to $5 million.
* Microsoft Corp., Redmond, Wash., to Towne Silverstein Rotter, New York, as the first agency to handle advertising for Actimates, an early learning system for children. Billings have not been determined.
* The Industry Standard, San Francisco, an Internet business weekly news magazine published by International Data Group, to Hampel/Stefanides, San Francisco, as the first agency to handle its account. Billings were estimated at $1 million.
* The Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, New York, to Margeotes/Interactive, New York, a unit of MDC Communications Corp., as the first agency to handle a yearlong advertising campaign on the Internet to increase traffic at the board's Web site. Billings were estimated at $1 million.
* Bertelsmann Online, New York, to I-traffic Inc., New York, as the first agency to handle American on-line advertising, alliances and customer acquisition for BOL.com, an on-line book-selling venture. Billings were not disclosed. Ogilvy One Worldwide, New York, part of WPP Group P.L.C., will handle the traditional advertising duties.
* Attic Communications L.L.C., New York, to Grey Alliance, New York and Hollywood, part of the Grey Entertainment unit of Grey Advertising, to introduce Madison, a life style magazine. Billings were not disclosed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: TREX (NYSE) (91%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (91%); WPP (LSE) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (71%); MDZ.A (TSX) (55%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (91%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: LANCASTER, PA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: SKANDIA INSURANCE CO LTD (91%); TREX CO INC (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); WPP PLC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (71%); AMERICAN SKANDIA LIFE ASSURANCE CORP (59%); STONER BUNTING ADVERTISING (57%); INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (56%); HAMPEL/STEFANIDES (56%); MDC PARTNERS INC (55%); NEW YORK (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; ACCOUNT CHANGES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (69%); CHILD WELFARE (69%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



486 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: TEPID WELCOME;
In Cincinnati, the President Makes a Most Abnormal Visit

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, Sept. 17

 BODY:
On the surface, it was a perfectly normal Presidential visit, with all the symbols of power on display.
President Clinton landed at lunchtime at Greater Cincinnati Airport, across the Ohio River in Kentucky, in his imposing blue-and-white jet, Air Force One, with the big Presidential seal on its side. A pair of Air Force enlisted men snapped to attention as a ramp rolled into place. A long black limousine with flags flying from its fenders stood ready, along with a queue of local politicians. 
 Mr. Clinton chatted with each person in the group, smiling warmly if less broadly than usual. As usual, he was late -- 25 minutes.
But it was, in fact, a most abnormal visit. Back in Washington, the House Judiciary Committee was meeting to decide whether to release the videotape of the President giving testimony about Monica S. Lewinsky to a grand jury. Representative Steve Chabot of Cincinnati, a Republican, sits on the committee.
After a long debate within her campaign organization about whether being seen with Mr. Clinton today would help her or hurt her, Mayor Roxanne Qualls of Cincinnati, Mr. Chabot's Democratic opponent this fall, turned up at the airport. Mr. Clinton asked Mayor Qualls to ride into the city with him, and she did.
But she had told a reporter pointedly earlier this week, "I am not a close personal friend of the President in any sense of the phrase."
Other Democratic politicians in the region who might have found a way to be there, had the President not been in such deep political trouble, stayed away today, for whatever reason. Gov. Paul E. Patton of Kentucky sent the Lieutenant Governor, Steven Henry. Neither Mary Boyle, the former County Commissioner from Cleveland who is running for the Senate in Ohio this fall, nor Representative Ted Strickland, a Democrat whose district runs eastward from the Cincinnati exurbs, found their way to the airport.
In the best of circumstances, this would be a tough year for Ohio Democrats. Gov. George V. Voinovich, a popular Republican, is strongly favored over Ms. Boyle in the Senate race, and the Ohio Secretary of State, Bob Taft, the possessor of a magic Republican name, is running well ahead in the contest for Mr. Voinovich's job. But Democratic candidates are getting jumpier by the day.
If Mr. Clinton wondered why, he could have scanned the front page of today's Cincinnati Enquirer. There were photographs of six local residents, with comments they sent in response to the paper's invitation. Two were more or less supportive of the President, but the rest were highly critical. Two called on him to resign and another, Jennifer Weber of Oxford, Ohio, wrote: "How can you stand for a moral and ethical country and help people live the American dream when you are the epitome of America's problems?"
The paper received 1,464 messages and printed three full pages of them. It said 3 out of 4 who sent faxes and letters wanted Mr. Clinton to go; those who sent E-mail messages, mostly younger, were more forgiving.
In an editorial last Sunday, the paper itself was harsh.
"President Bill Clinton has lied his way out of the most powerful office in the world," The Enquirer declared. "To endure such a dishonest man as our national leader is more shame and humiliation than our nation can tolerate. He needs our prayers. But he cannot remain in the White House. If he lacks the basic decency, honor and sense of duty to resign, he should be impeached."
Despite national, regional and local polls showing that a majority of respondents want neither a resignation nor an impeachment, those calling the Washington offices of Ohio lawmakers obviously feel otherwise.
A "large volume of calls" to Senator John Glenn, a Democrat who said this week that it would be "reckless and injudicious" for him to join "the rush to judgment" in the Lewinsky matter, have run 2 to 1 in favor of resignation or impeachment. Mr. Chabot's office said the tally there was 425 to 15 against Mr. Clinton since Kenneth W. Starr issued his report a week ago.
Not that the President lacks vocal supporters in this state. The Ohio Democratic chairman, David J. Leland, said, "The vast majority of Ohio Democrats want to see this President continue in office, because they know a political lynching when they see one."
Even conclusive proof that Mr. Clinton lied to the grand jury in the Lewinsky case "wouldn't change anyone's minds here," Mr. Leland said in a telephone interview.
Mr. Clinton got an equally fervent vote of confidence this afternoon from Stanley Chesley, the host of a fund-raising luncheon at his house in the city's northern suburbs. Mr. Chesley praised the President for "monumental" courage in the face of repeated attacks and added: "We need you. I need you."
Mr. Chesley, one of the nation's leading trial lawyers, who has made a fortune from contingency fees in cases like the Bhopal chemical disaster in India, has raised millions of dollars for Democratic candidates in recent years. Today's goal was $500,000 for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. Considerably more than that was raised last March at a similar event for the Democratic National Committee at Mr. Chesley's house.
The President contrasted his stands on Social Security, the world economy, public education and health care with those of the Republicans on Capitol Hill. He urged his listeners to "look your friends dead in the eye" and tell them: "It's not about Washington. It's about America and these issues."
Washington, he said, is "obsessed with itself instead of America."
On the way to the luncheon, Mr. Clinton passed a small group of supporters and a larger group of opponents calling for him to resign.
But he talked to no ordinary voters. Mayor Qualls invited him to visit one of the Cincinnati neighborhoods that have applied for a Federal "empowerment zone" grant. But the Mayor said White House officials had rejected the idea on the ground that a visit to one applicant would be unfair to others.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters lined the streets in Cincinnati yesterday as President Clinton arrived for a fund-raising luncheon. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CINCINNATI ENQUIRER (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (93%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); AIR FORCES (72%); COUNTIES (70%); GOVERNORS (69%); GRAND JURY (68%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); STEVE CHABOT (72%); TED STRICKLAND (57%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



487 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: What Happened to Those Global Rate Cuts?

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
On Monday President Clinton declared that in the midst of the greatest economic turmoil in a half-century, "the industrial world's chief priority today, plainly, is to spur growth." The markets soared, figuring that the combination of a Presidential call to arms and a statement issued the same day by the seven largest industrial economies meant coordinated action was on the way -- chiefly a cut in interest rates.
By Wednesday afternoon, that hope was dashed. First Germany, then the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, said that "there is no endeavor to coordinate interest rate cuts." 
 Was this a case of miscommunication? Of a weakened President trying to address a global crisis with a strong speech instead of an immediate action plan? Or at a moment of maximum financial peril, is the world relying on four leaders -- in Japan, in Germany, in the United States and in Russia -- who see the unfolding crisis in very different terms, and are each holding on to power by a thread?
A miscommunication case seems unlikely. Mr. Greenspan, White House officials note, helped draft the statement that the Group of Seven nations turned out on Monday. It was no accident that the language Mr. Clinton used in his speech the same day closely paralleled the wording the countries had agreed to over the weekend.
Moreover, Mr. Greenspan seemed to hint that the crisis could lead the Fed to cut rates in the United States, even if it acted alone. He noted that the forces of deflation -- not a word Mr. Greenspan uses lightly -- were moving toward American shores. And if Mr. Greenspan's colleagues around the world were planning a cut, the last thing he would do is telegraph the punch.
That leaves the two other options. By all accounts, Mr. Clinton's six-point plan for global recovery is still vague, at best. And even Mr. Clinton's own advisers, speaking on condition of anonymity, concede that its execution depends on a display of raw power by leaders who are hardly in a position to swing for the fences.
"You have to give the President credit and support for trying to get the country focused on this issue," said Robert B. Zoellick, the president-designate of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, who tried to manage the competing interests of the world's economic powers when he worked for James A. Baker 3d at both the Treasury and State Departments.
"But it should have come months ago, and you have this sense -- as you often have in the Clinton Administration -- that they were putting it all together at the last moment."
In fact, some of the aides surrounding Mr. Clinton acknowledge that the speech, and the actions that follow it, should have come before Russia was in full collapse, and before Latin America was threatened. But they argue that now that Mr. Clinton has entered the fray, he intends to push through his agenda for world recovery -- despite the calls for his resignation or impeachment.
"There is no question that American leadership is indispensable if things are going to actually happen," Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said Wednesday. "And there's equally no question that the President has provided that leadership, and the world looks to him for that leadership."
Still, the central conundrum in calling for concerted action against the economic contagion is that no country sees the problem -- or the solution -- through the same prism. In times of world prosperity, that is rarely a problem. At times like this, it can be disastrous.
In Germany, there are two dominating issues: the coming election that will decide if Chancellor Helmut Kohl wins another term after 16 years in power, and the imminent creation of the European Monetary Union.
Mr. Kohl's aggressive moves to aid Russia since the fall of the Soviet Union is a sore point with voters. He is not about to worsen his already-pessimistic poll numbers by suggesting that Germany should set aside its own domestic imperatives to act as one of the locomotives to pull the rest of the world out of trouble.
A senior official who deals with Germany daily on the economic crisis notes that "you get the sense that they think all this would go away if the world would just pull up its socks." Put simply, a crisis that began in Asia still seems distant to most people in Germany, even more distant than it seemed to many Americans before its impact here began to affect farmers in Idaho and chip makers in Silicon Valley.
There is another reason for German reticence: Lowering interest rates now, even as part of a global cut, might signal a diminishment of the country's postwar vow to eradicate inflation. That is hardly the message Germany wants to send as it is about to adopt the common European currency, the euro.
In Japan, there are different preoccupations. The country's weak Prime Minister, Keizo Obuchi, arrives in New York on Sunday, and had hoped to bring at least modest evidence that the country's Parliament was closer to solving its huge banking problems and stimulating an economy that is shrinking at an alarming rate. Right now Mr. Obuchi is stuck in the mud, without the power to strike a deal with the opposition, and stunned by the mounting criticism around the globe that Japan is responsible for much of Asia's problems.
"The way the Japanese see it, the only crisis is their internal one," said Jeffrey Garten, a former top Clinton Administration official and now dean of the Yale School of Management. The result is that Mr. Obuchi, who meets Mr. Clinton on Tuesday, is in a position to promise nothing in the way of bank reform and fiscal stimulus beyond what Japan has already announced -- a plan the markets and the Treasury view as insufficient.
In Moscow, Boris N. Yeltsin is presiding over a Government that today announced it was going to do exactly what the world had warned it not to do -- print rubles to pay off its debts, even if it touches off hyperinflation.
And then there is Mr. Clinton, trying to convince the world that he can save his job and remake the world's financial architecture all at once.
Perhaps he can: His top aides have fanned out across Washington this week to make the argument that Mr. Clinton is dealing with the calls for his resignation or impeachment by digging even deeper into major issues on his plate, starting with steering clear of the huge icebergs that could rupture the sleek economic vessel the United States has become. It is a tough case to make. Clearly the only issue focusing White House aides now is the President's survival in office.
"Are we distracted?" one White House aide asked rhetorically this week. "Well, it's fair to say there are more people in this building working to save the President than there are to save Brazil."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; GERMANY; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRENDS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); DEFLATION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GREENSPAN, ALAN BILL CLINTON (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



488 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2102 words

HEADLINE: For Affluent Blacks, Harlem's Pull Is Strong

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO 

 BODY:
Howard Sanders had garnered the trappings of American success: a degree from Harvard Business School, a position with a high-powered Manhattan investment firm and an apartment on Central Park West.
But Mr. Sanders, who is black, felt so strongly about one day owning a home in Harlem, where he had grown up, that it became a condition of his marriage proposal. Today, he and his wife, Karen, and their daughter, Samantha, live in a five-bedroom brownstone with a Japanese garden on West 147th Street. 
 "I don't have to live next to a white family," Mr. Sanders, 32, said. "I effectively have integrated. I've gone to predominantly white schools. I work in a white firm, and I can live anywhere I want. It really is psychologically soothing for me to be in Harlem."
What started in the early 1990's as a trickle of young African-American lawyers, doctors, professors and bankers moving back to Harlem and other historically black neighborhoods seems now to have reached the flood stage.
Black professionals are snatching up 5,000-square-foot brownstones off avenues named for black leaders. And their financial commitments extend beyond new boilers and restoring woodwork; they are also looking to bring the amenities they had found in SoHo and the Upper West Side to neighborhoods that, while on the upswing, are still marked by abandonment and a dearth of shops and restaurants.
Falling crime rates, relatively low housing prices, striking residential architecture and signs of economic renewal are all factors in the influx of affluent young black people to historically black neighborhoods. But certain intangibles -- Harlem's storied place in the black consciousness, a new generation's changing sensibility about integration, simple idealism -- have played a role as well, scholars and new arrivals say.
"There's an economic incentive because you can basically get housing for 30 to 40 percent of what you'd pay 25 blocks away," said Darren Walker, who gave up a doorman building in midtown Manhattan and a career in the bond department of a Swiss bank to move to Harlem and become a vice president of the nonprofit Abyssinian Development Corporation.
"But I have always had a fascination with the Harlem of legend and folklore," he said. "Reading the writers of the Harlem Renaissance created a lot of mythologies in our heads. I just feel this visceral kind of connection that I don't know how to describe."
Real estate brokers say there has also been a parallel increase over the last five years in buyers without those connections -- white families and a small number of Asian-Americans -- who are simply attracted by the amount of space and bygone splendor their money can buy.
"We've got houses up there with Honduran mahogany and 24-karat gold leaf molding in the dining rooms," said Willie Kathryn Suggs, a broker who estimates that buyers who are not black now account for about 30 percent of her clients for row houses and condominiums. "To be able to have that kind of house in the city is attractive to all kinds of people."
Other brokers say that the percentage of new buyers who are not black is probably lower, between 10 and 15 percent, but that the number is increasing more rapidly than the number of black buyers.
Ms. Suggs cited as one example a white couple -- a lawyer and a business consultant -- who closed last month on a row house in the Hamilton Heights neighborhood, and who told her they wanted to attract theater companies to the area.
 
Planting the Seeds For a New Renaissance
Brokers say they have seen the effects of Harlem's pull. Housing prices in West Harlem have risen 20 percent in five years, according to R. Kenyatta Punter, a broker with the Harlem-based Myers, Smith & Granady realty agency. Hard to market in the early 1990's, brownstones are now selling briskly, at prices ranging from $80,000 for an abandoned shell to $450,000 for a house in perfect condition.
Many of the homes predate the Harlem Renaissance of the 1920's, which is when many black people moving to New York chose to live in Harlem, in part because it had a surplus of rental apartments.
Beginning in the 1930's and accelerating through the 40's and 50's, large numbers of black professionals left Harlem, although a small middle-class presence remained through the decades, said Winston James, an assistant professor of history at Columbia University who specializes in the Harlem Renaissance. Their departure followed the decay of apartments during the Depression and new opportunities for integration in places like Brooklyn and Queens.
Professor James said the recent return of well-to-do blacks began in the early 1990's and now seems "to be expanding tremendously."
"There is a sense of idealism among a large number of black professional young people," he said. "There is a terrible frustration about the condition of black people in the society despite the progress of many members of the professional class. I suppose one of the ways people attempt to make some kind of contribution is by their physical presence."
That is certainly true of Dr. Michael E. Jones. A 29-year-old ear, nose and throat resident at Mount Sinai Medical Center, Dr. Jones decided to move to Harlem after receiving undergraduate and medical degrees from Columbia University.
"It was important for me to be in Harlem because I needed a sense of purpose," he said. "Being in Chelsea or TriBeCa or the Upper East Side, I wouldn't feel that my presence could make a difference. Children on my block say, 'Hey, Doc.' They see me working hard. And because they can see it and touch it, they may feel it's something they can attain."
His home, on West 147th Street between Convent and St. Nicholas Avenues, is a handsome 6,000-square-foot brownstone in the leafy section known both as Sugar Hill and Hamilton Heights.
With Dr. Jones's BMW parked out front and his carefully tended impatiens in back, the house has become a beacon for young people tempted to give Harlem a try. "I started having networking parties and became a funnel for a lot of young black professionals who wanted to find brownstones here," he said.

A Lack of Amenities Draws Entrepreneurs
One drawback is the lack of stores and services. Although ground was recently broken for Harlem USA, an ambitious retail and entertainment complex on 125th Street that is to include the area's first Gap and Disney stores, commercial development farther north has been spotty.
"When friends come to visit or when I'm tired and want to grab a quick cup of gourmet coffee, I absolutely wish those amenities were here," Dr. Jones said. "But it's my dream to make them happen. It's up to us to do it."
Having already carved out a busy sideline in real estate development by buying, renovating and selling old brownstones and boardinghouses, mostly in Hamilton Heights, Dr. Jones is now determined to fill the void of stylish restaurants with his latest venture, the Sugar Hill Cafe. The plan calls for a combination coffeehouse, restaurant and jazz club on three floors of a brownstone at 458 West 145th Street.
Dr. Jones bought the building in June for $300,000 with two partners who are also Harlem residents: Dineo Khabele, a fellow in gynecology-oncology at Montefiore Medical Center, and her husband, James Hunter, an engineer. The three plan to spend $450,000 to renovate the tattered turn-of-the-century building, where the original oak floors and carved mantelpieces are still intact. They are now seeking financing.
"You have the most affluent neighborhood in Harlem," Dr. Jones said, "without any quality dining establishments within walking distance."
Other black professionals are considering buying franchises to open businesses like florists and copy centers. The franchise chains are expanding into Harlem and four other city neighborhoods through a new program sponsored by the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, a nonprofit group in Manhattan, and the Bankers Trust Company.
The sponsors are recruiting entrepreneurs to team up with local community development groups to buy the franchises, benefiting from below-market financing and looser equity requirements. The first such franchise, a Sterling Optical store, opened in Harlem on Sept. 2 on the corner of 125th Street and Malcolm X Boulevard.
 
Moving In With Money And Fresh Ideas
While no hard numbers exist to document the movement of black professionals to Harlem, the higher real estate prices speak volumes.
"In the last five years, it has really gained momentum," said Sherman Edmiston, a Harlem real estate agent whose wife, Essie Green Edmiston, owns an art gallery there. "We are getting more of the younger people coming here with the idea that they want to be part of the rebuilding of Harlem. They've got fresh ideas and a considerable amount of money."
In some ways, the Edmistons were pioneers in deciding 10 years ago to move their home and art gallery from Park Slope in Brooklyn to Harlem. Like many parts of the city, Harlem was then in the throes of the crack epidemic, and art meccas like SoHo or 57th Street would have seemed a more likely choice for their gallery, which sells the art of such black masters as Jacob Lawrence and Romare Bearden.
"But we felt that our concentration is really on developing the collections of black collectors, and there's a poetry to our being in Harlem as opposed to being downtown," said Mr. Edmiston, who also works in the gallery.
The couple might have also considered Bedford-Stuyvesant, a historically black community in Brooklyn that has plenty of scruffy bodegas and garish beauty parlors but is known for its beautiful brownstones. It, too, is drawing black professionals.
Lewis A. Watkins, district manager of Community Board 3, which covers Bedford-Stuyvesant, attributes the trend to rising housing prices in Brooklyn neighborhoods like Park Slope and Brooklyn Heights. "You can buy the same town house in Bed-Stuy for $250,000 that would sell for a half-million dollars in Park Slope," he said.
But for Monique Greenwood, the executive editor of Essence magazine, and her husband, Glenn Pogue, a broadcast engineer for WNBC-TV, money was not the only motivator. "We could easily go to the suburbs," she said, "but we're about rebuilding our communities and living in them."
One concern the couple had was the public schools. Ms. Greenwood said that while she wanted her 6-year-old daughter, Glynn, to attend a public school, "I wasn't convinced that I wanted my child to suffer because of my political beliefs."
After checking out several private schools in Brooklyn, as well as the public elementary schools, the couple decided that Glynn could receive as good an education in the gifted program in their neighborhood school as in private school. But they knew it would mean more involvement on their part.
During the last school year, the couple met weekly with other parents, teachers and administrators as part of the school-based management team to discuss issues, from the curriculum to grant money. In the spring, they sat on the selection committee responsible for hiring the new principal.
Like Dr. Jones in Harlem, Ms. Greenwood also missed the smorgasbord of services in wealthier New York neighborhoods. So she, too, took matters into her own hands. Three years ago, she and her husband opened Akwaaba Mansion, a lavish bed-and-breakfast in the 18-room house that is also their home. (Akwaaba means welcome in Akan, a language spoken in Ghana.)
Last month, they opened Akwaaba Cafe, a restaurant with burgundy banquettes and light fixtures of copper wire, parchment paper and colored glass beads. "I realized I had to be involved in economic development," Ms. Greenwood said, "because the amenities I would want in a neighborhood just weren't there."
While the commercial life of Harlem may never be as abundant as points south in Manhattan, that's fine with Mr. Sanders, the investment banker. (It's easy enough, he said, to drive five minutes south for Sunday brunch on Amsterdam Avenue.) Harlem, he says, feeds his soul in a way that other Manhattan neighborhoods never could.
"To be quite honest, there are cultural differences, and when you live in your own community, there's not that pressure to assimilate," he said.
"I'm basking in my own culture when I go to the Schomburg Center," he said, referring to the New York Public Library's Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture. "If I lived in the West Village I couldn't do that. I'd have to seek out activities that brought me into contact with black professionals."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harlem is again attracting many black professionals. Karen and Howard Sanders and their daughter, Samantha, live on West 147th Street. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Howard Sanders says Harlem feeds his soul in a way that other Manhattan neighborhoods never could. The investment banker in his home. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SWISS BANK & TRUST CORP LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES; BLACKS; HOUSING; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); MARRIAGE (76%); ASIAN AMERICANS (75%); HOME PRICES (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); TRENDS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); CRIME RATES (64%); FOLKLORE (60%); 

PERSON: SANDERS, HOWARD; JONES, MICHAEL (DR); EDMISTON, SHERMAN; GREENWOOD MONIQUE; WALKER, DARREN; FODERARO, LISA W HOWARD MUMFORD JONES (59%); SIR GEORGE YOUNG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



489 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: Capital Spending Takes a Break;
Asia Crisis and Overcapacity Threaten Pillar of Growth

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
Having just built one new factory and expanded another, the Chrysler Corporation is cutting back on capital investment. AT&T has also shaved its capital spending, but for a different reason: It purchased an existing phone network, rather than spending the money to build a new one. And Motorola Inc., its sales hurt by the Asian crisis, is postponing investments in new factories and machinery, even going so far as to halt construction of a huge $3 billion semiconductor plant in Virginia.
Capital spending, a pillar of the nation's strong economic growth over the last three years, is beginning to fade. First falling exports, then falling stock prices and now a slowdown in capital spending are chipping away at the vigorous economy, watering down growth in the second half of the year. Despite these hits, the economy appears to be strong enough to stay out of recession for now, thanks to robust consumer spending. 
 "The economy is not falling apart," said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's DRI, a data gathering and forecasting service. "What you are seeing is some evidence of a weakening in capital spending, partly in response to Asia and partly because, in most industries, we have already added as many new facilities as we are likely to need for a while."
Capital spending is the investment that companies and individuals make in the machinery, equipment and buildings to operate their businesses and make them more efficient. The cumulative result is a more vigorous and productive economy. In the 1990's, robust capital spending has been a huge contributor to the economy's overall growth, accounting for 25 percent of the total expansion in output in this decade -- substantially more than in either the 1970's or the 1980's.
While the falloff in sales to Asia has played a significant role in discouraging capital spending, a bigger obstacle -- one only partly a result of the Asian downturn -- appears to be overcapacity. In interviews with officials at 15 corporations, many said that after having made huge investments in recent years to increase production, they were pausing while sales caught up.
Even without an outsized crisis like the one emanating from Asia, corporate America normally goes through cycles of robust capital spending followed by pullbacks. And more than seven years into the current economic expansion, this appears to be a time for pullback.
"Until we see that more demand is likely to occur, we are not going to go into another cycle of capacity expansion," said Wynn Van Bussman, the chief economist at Chrysler, which recently completed a new engine factory in Detroit and expanded a transmission factory. "We don't expect sales in North America to be higher in the next year or two than they already are this year."
Like Chrysler, Levi Strauss & Company worries about overcapacity. Even after closing 11 factories in the United States in recent months, the company still has the capacity to manufacture more jeans than it can sell in this country. So it is shifting money out of its capital spending budget and into marketing. "In the United States in the next year, we will come close to doubling our advertising and promotion budget," Clarence Grebey, a Levi Strauss spokesman, said, "and part of that is coming from capital expenditure."
Capital spending at Motorola, the communications giant, has been curtailed because of a worldwide downturn in semiconductor sales and falling prices for these computer chips. The downturn is partly a result of recessions in Asia and partly a result of overcapacity domestically.
Whatever the balance of those reasons, Motorola's $4.5 billion capital spending budget for this year, much of it earmarked for the United States, has been slashed to $2.9 billion. Nearly half the cutback involves semiconductor operations. Motorola announced on Wednesday that while construction continued at a huge semiconductor plant in Chandler, Ariz., ground-breaking for another equally large one near Richmond, scheduled for next month, had been postponed -- "until the market for semiconductors justifies new construction," Scott Stevens, a Motorola spokesman, said yesterday. "Do I have any idea when that will be? No. This is an unprecedented downturn, the worst in semiconductor history."
The incipient pullback in capital spending is developing rapidly. After having shot up at an annual rate of 16 percent from January through June, the growth rate for capital outlays will probably shrivel to 5 percent or 6 percent in the second half, some forecasters say. That would subtract at least one-quarter of a percentage point from the growth rate for the economy as a whole. Even without the hit from capital spending, economic growth is likely to be under 2 percent, as it was in the second quarter. During that quarter, falling exports and excessive stockpiles of unsold goods forced a variety of cutbacks in production.
Shrinking profits are also playing a role in corporate America's decision to go easy on capital spending. And falling prices have had their impact, particularly in such industries as steel, copper, oil and agriculture. The Case Corporation, for example, announced last week that it was curtailing production of tractors and combines, which are capital expenditures for farmers. The Phelps Dodge Company has responded to falling copper prices by cutting capital outlays to less than $180 million in the second half from $280 million in last year's first half.
"The supply of copper and the demand for it are in pretty good balance," Thomas M. Foster, a Phelps Dodge vice president, said. "But we have seen lower copper prices for some time, and they appear to be related to the perception that the Asian crisis will precipitate a worldwide slowdown. So we have not initiated new projects at any of our plants."
In some cases, acquisitions have become a substitute for capital spending. AT&T took this route. Rather than invest huge sums in local lines to connect business customers to AT&T's long-distance network, the company in July acquired Teleport Communications Group, which already owns local networks in major cities. The acquisition was a factor in AT&T's decision to hold capital spending to $7 billion this year, roughly the same as last year -- after four years of rapidly rising investment.
"Without this purchase, we might have invested more to create infrastructure," said Eileen Connolly, an AT&T spokeswoman.
Detailed economic data for the third quarter will not be available until next month, but various statistics are signaling the turn in capital spending. For example, spending on commercial construction, particularly factories but also office buildings, has begun to fall, the Commerce Department reports. Orders for nondefense capital goods, which are most of the equipment and machinery purchased by American companies, leveled off in the first half, after having risen sharply in 1996 and 1997. And corporate America is operating its productive facilities within the United States at a relatively moderate 81.7 percent of full capacity, which is slightly below the long-term average.
The National Association of Purchasing Management, in a monthly survey of American manufacturers, found that capital spending projects currently in progress would take only 119 days on average to complete -- down from 130 days last summer. The 119 days is the lowest level in the nearly 11 years that the association has compiled this statistic, suggesting that companies are commissioning fewer new projects.
The association also surveys companies in the service sector. Although this survey lacks a specific question about capital spending, answers to questions that are included give the strong impression that service-sector companies are also cutting back. "Capital spending at service companies is certainly not increasing; at best it is flat," said Ralph Kaufman, a University of Houston management professor who runs the service-sector survey.
There are bright spots. Although Asian recessions have cut into Caterpillar Inc.'s sales of earthmovers and construction equipment, the company says it is increasing capital spending anyway. "We are moving into new products," said Douglas R. Oberhelman, Caterpillar's chief financial officer, "including electric power generation from diesel engines and the manufacture of very small combines and tractors, which is a good business at the moment."
Consumer spending, far and away the largest single outlay in the American economy, is still quite strong, and that helps to sustain capital investment, which in the second quarter reached $958 billion, adjusted for inflation, or roughly one-fifth of consumer spending. Low interest rates have helped by encouraging store purchases on credit and home building.
Responding to brisk retail sales, Gap Inc. has set aside $700 million for capital spending this year, up from $450 million last year -- earmarking most of the money for new Old Navy and Gap stores. Federated Department Stores Inc. is similarly engaged in store investment: $750 million a year over three years, but mainly to remodel existing stores, not to expand the total number. Hotel and theater construction is still robust, and so is investment in fast-food restaurants.
Wendy's International Inc., trying to catch up to the McDonald's Corporation and Burger King, a unit of Diageo P.L.C., says it will add 675 new restaurants next year, mostly in the United States, up from 550 openings this year. "Ever since we opened our first restaurant 30 years ago, experts have told us that the hamburger restaurant market is oversaturated," Jack Lynch, a Wendy's spokesman, said. "Despite that warning, we now operate 4,600 restaurants in the United States and 600 more abroad. An economic slowdown won't change our plans; we do fine in a recession."
Still, these are exceptions. The Eastman Chemical Company is more the rule.
When the Asian crisis struck, Eastman, which produces ingredients for the manufacture of plastics, paint and other coatings, was in the midst of an investment surge aimed at expansion. The spending is winding down now, more quickly than anticipated because of events in Asia, said Earnest J. Davenport Jr., the chairman at Eastman. That is partly because foreign chemical companies are shipping products to the United States they can no longer sell in Asia, and that cuts into Eastman's sales volume.
"We have delayed some planned capital spending projects in this country," Mr. Davenport said, "and we may delay others."

CORRECTION-DATE: September 19, 1998, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday tracing cutbacks in capital investment misidentified one data source. It was the National Association of Purchasing Management, not Chesapeake Shared Services.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A new wing at Motorola's semiconductor plant in Austin Tex., above, was completed before the company recently cut back on its capital investments. Microprocessor wafers, left, are prepared on the arm of an evaporator. (Photos by Mathew Sturtevant for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Companies Scale Back Investments"
Capital investment, one of the pillars of economic growth in the 1990's, is starting to fade, contributing to a slowdown in the American economy. Graphs show construction spending and average completion time for capital projects, from '91 through '98. (Sources: Chesapeake Shared Services; Census Bureau)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (60%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (94%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (72%); LEVI STRAUSS & CO (60%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); BONDS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); SEMICONDUCTORS (56%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1998



490 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: UAL President, Pressured by Unions, Quits

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 18

 BODY:
John A. Edwardson, the president and chief operating officer of the UAL Corporation, the parent of United Airlines, resigned today because unions at the company would not support his promotion to chief executive next year.
Mr. Edwardson, 49, who joined UAL in July 1994 as president, resigned when it became apparent that he would not have the support of the leaders of the employee-owned airline's machinists', pilots' and flight attendants' unions, said Gerald Greenwald, UAL's chief executive. 
 Mr. Greenwald, 62, is expected to retire from the company's top position next year when his contract with the airline ends. Mr. Edwardson, who became the company's chief operating officer in April 1995, was considered the probable successor.
But Madison Walton, a spokesman for pilots' union, said that after working with Mr. Edwardson "for more than four years, we've determined that his idea of a culture for a majority employee-owned company is different from ours."
The airline, based in Chicago, said it would announce a successor to Mr. Edwardson in a few days. Mr. Greenwald said he and the board had supported Mr. Edwardson, despite the employees' growing concerns.
"I believe it is in everyone's best interests -- our employees', the company's, and mine -- for me to step aside and clear the way for Jerry's eventual successor," Mr. Edwardson said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (73%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UAL CORP UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (93%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (93%); AIRLINES (92%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); 

PERSON: EDWARDSON, JOHN A JOHN EDWARDSON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



491 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: Will Germany Deny The Past?

BYLINE: By Jacob Heilbrunn; Jacob Heilbrunn is a senior editor at The New Republic

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
With the German election a week away, Gerhard Schroder, the Social Democrat who is favored to defeat Chancellor Helmut Kohl, has been modeling his campaign on Bill Clinton's 1992 strategy of promising economic innovation and generational change.
Unfortunately, Clinton-style opportunism appears to be Mr. Schroder's dominant trait, particularly in his recent denunciation of Mr. Kohl's support for a Holocaust memorial in the center of Berlin, near the Brandenburg Gate and the American Embassy. In so doing, Mr. Schroder has recklessly politicized the Holocaust. 
 The issue had been dormant. Now Mr. Schroder, encouraged by Michael Naumann, a former book publisher whom Mr. Schroder has recruited as a possible culture minister, has said that Germany should become a "self-assured" nation and that a memorial would set the wrong tone. He wants German-American ties to be "more strongly determined by visions of the future than by the burden of the past."
Mr. Naumann has gone even further. Picking up on a pet project of German neo-conservatives, he has said that instead of constructing a memorial, Germans should rebuild Kaiser Wilhelm's palace, which was demolished by East German Communists after World War II.
Such demagogy is a remarkable change for the Social Democratic Party. Traditionally it has emphasized contrition and repentance for the German past. When Willy Brandt, a Social Democrat, was Chancellor, his most famous act was to fall to his knees at the Warsaw ghetto in December 1970.
Neither Mr. Schroder's nor Mr. Naumann's stated reasons for, in effect, abandoning this tradition are remotely persuasive. The memorials at concentration camps far from Berlin do not serve the same purpose that a memorial in the center of the new German capital would.
Dodging confrontation with the Nazi era is hardly a way of displaying "self-assurance." And calling for the reconstruction of Kaiser Wilhelm's palace is childishly provocative.
Yet Mr. Schroder's position has received the support of many intellectuals on the left as well as the right.
Gunter Grass and other left-wingers who signed a manifesto to Mr. Kohl saying that a memorial was "indispensable" in 1989 have now signed a new letter opposing it.
For these intellectuals Mr. Kohl's strong support of the project is one reason to oppose it.
Another is that they want Mr. Schroder to be elected, and a recent poll indicated that a majority of Berliners are against the memorial.
Young intellectuals on the right oppose the memorial because they want to create a self-confident Berlin republic that dispenses with the self-effacement of the defunct cold war Bonn republic. Writing in the daily Die Welt, Tilman Krause, an essayist for the paper, hailed "an end to leftist national masochism."
"What nation would come up with the idea of putting the most horrible acts of its own history in such an exposed position in gigantic dimensions in its capital?" Mr. Krause asked.
In denouncing the memorial, then, Mr. Schroder and Mr. Naumann are exploiting the worst sentiments on both sides of the spectrum. If Mr. Schroder becomes Chancellor, he should think hard about whether the founding act of the new Berlin republic should be to repress the memory of the destruction of European Jewry.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lutz Widmaier)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (95%); 

COMPANY: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (55%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (55%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; BERLIN (GERMANY); GERMANY (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (95%); 

SUBJECT: NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND OTHER MINORITIES; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOLOCAUST (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); WORLD WAR II (76%); WRITERS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (56%); BOOK PUBLISHING (55%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); 

PERSON: HEILBRUNN, JACOB; SCHRODER, GERHARD; KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR) BILL CLINTON (92%); GERHARD SCHRODER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



492 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
On Oct. 16, 1978, 20 years ago next month, Karol Cardinal Wojtyla, the Archbishop of Cracow, became Pope John Paul II. Evaluations of his event-studded pontificate -- already one of the longest in the history of the Roman Catholic Church -- and of his remarkable personality will soon be sprouting left and right (and no doubt reflecting different predispositions, left and right). Such evaluations will obviously require political insight, knowledge about Catholic teaching and a good deal of nuance.
On a less elevated level, they may also benefit from some numbers, and not only how many times the Pope has visited how many countries and how many major church documents he has issued or how many copies of his books have been sold. Here are some other pertinent data, drawn largely from the Vatican's Statistical Yearbook of the Church. 
 From 1978 to 1995, the Roman Catholic Church grew to almost 990 million baptized members from 750 million. At the same time, it shrunk slightly as a proportion of the world's population, to 17.4 percent from 17.8 percent. It especially grew, as has often been reported, in Asia and Africa, both in absolute numbers and as a percentage of the population. In the United States and Western Europe it continued to grow in numbers but, as elsewhere, to shrink slightly as a percentage of the population.
Of course, all these numbers are approximations that blend local reports of varying precision. Comparisons are further complicated by the fact that halfway through John Paul's pontificate, the collapse of Communist regimes allowed new statistics where data had been unavailable. And one wonders how meaningful some of the figures are.
It may be that 97 percent of the Italian population continues to be baptized as of 1995, the same percentage that the Vatican reported for 1978. But that figure scarcely registers the two decades of secularization that Italy's church officials regularly lament.
More reliable indicators of the church's health may be found in the statistics on its "work force," as the yearbook puts it, primarily the numbers of priests and sisters. Here the general impression is that John Paul's papacy has put an end to the hemorrhaging of the church's mid-level leadership, which followed the Second Vatican Council's recasting of church roles in the 1960's and the subsequent debates about celibacy.
The numbers tell a more complicated story. From 1978 to 1995, for example, the numbers of priests grew by 42 in Africa and 48 percent in Asia, but the decline in North America (13 percent) and Europe (12 percent) continued. Because North America and Europe still harbor most of the world's Catholic priests, the overall picture for the world remained a decline of 2.8 percent.
Those are absolute numbers, however, and because the numbers of Catholics have been growing, the ratio of priests to people has become even more strained. In Africa, there were 3,251 Catholics for every priest at the beginning of this pontificate; in 1995 there were 4,476; in Asia the figure went from 2,223 Catholics per priest to 2,620. (In the United States, the figure went to 1,117 from 833.)
The pattern is similar for sisters. The numbers have gone up sharply in Africa and Asia since 1978, but they have gone down so sharply in North America and Europe that by 1995 there were 15 percent fewer nuns worldwide serving a much larger church than at the beginning of John Paul's reign.
It is also interesting to compare such statistics under Pope John Paul II with those under Pope Paul VI. Pope Paul's pontificate, from 1963 to 1978, is often considered a period of extreme postconciliar turmoil and disarray. Yet it is striking how similar the overall score is for both pontificates. Under Paul VI, Catholicism grew in absolute numbers and as a proportion of the population in Africa and Asia, as it would under John Paul II, but still shrank slightly as a percentage of the world's population.
During the 15 years of Pope Paul VI's reign, the number of priests declined 2.7 percent, a loss slightly less than that suffered during the 17 years, from 1978 to 1995, under John Paul II.
In the United States, the number of Catholics who had to be served by each priest grew by 23 percent under Paul VI. Under John Paul II the number has increased by more than 25 percent. And the decline in the number of sisters has been much sharper under the present Pope than the earlier one.
One could tweak these figures in different ways. For example, one could assume a "lag," as economists often do. Thus the first five years of John Paul II's papacy might be chalked up to Paul VI's leadership, and the numbers would almost certainly show that under the current Pope, many of the negative trends that seemed to build in the decade after 1973 were slowed if not completely reversed. In some cases, that was probably because John Paul II's policies were taking effect. In other cases, it was probably a natural settling down -- for example, the priests most likely to leave the active priesthood had already done so.
And one always needs to remember the shortcomings of the data. It would take a major scholarly study to make truly accurate comparisons. Still, one might risk a few very broad conclusions:
First, as witnessed by the similarities in trends under two very different Popes, the major forces affecting the church's health may be well beyond papal leadership -- forces like birth rates and social, economic and cultural changes in both non-Western nations and the church's European-based heartlands.
Second, while some church leaders hail a shift in the church's center of gravity from Europe and North America to Africa and Asia (with traditionally Catholic Latin America partaking of some of the weaknesses of the Old World Catholicism from which it sprang, along with the indigenous religious vitality it shares with other third world regions), it will be a long time, and a hard time, before the new growth can compensate for the apparent loss of morale, which this pontificate does not seem to have arrested, in the church's European and North American territories.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); ASIA (93%); HOLY SEE (92%); AFRICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ITALY (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH WESTERN EUROPE (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; AFRICA; EUROPE; EUROPE (94%); ASIA (93%); HOLY SEE (92%); AFRICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ITALY (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); LABOR FORCE (70%); 

PERSON: POPE (JOHN PAUL II); STEINFELS, PETER POPE JOHN PAUL II (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



493 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Bond Prices Gain as Stocks Also Post Rise

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Strange things happened on Wall Street yesterday. Prices of both bonds and stocks rose.
A bond rally pushed the yield on the 30-year Treasury bond closer to 5 percent, the lowest level for long-term Government yields in 30 years. 
 But surprisingly, this flight by investors to the Treasury's safe harbor did not come at the expense of stock prices, as has been the case recently. Instead, stocks rallied too, as the Dow Jones industrial average inched up 21.89 points to recover part of its 216-point slide Thursday. The broader Nasdaq index jumped 1 percent.
Altogether, it made for one of the calmest days on Wall Street and in other markets in weeks.
The problems for the American stock market -- weak corporate earnings, a recession in Asia, the threat of one in Latin America and the spillover into the United States -- all remain.
The forecast of I.B.E.S. International, which collects analysts' earnings estimates, for third-quarter earnings of the companies that make up the Standard & Poor's 500 index is now a decline of 1.1 percent, compared with the third quarter a year ago. That would be the first quarterly drop in earnings since 1991.
But Douglas R. Cliggott, the United States equity strategist at J. P. Morgan Securities, sees something positive. Earnings forecasts, which two months ago were for 8 percent growth in the third quarter, have come into line with reality, he said.
Given no growth in earnings and the yield on the 30-year bond at 5.25 percent, he said the stock market is now about 9 percent undervalued. "That is a very good cushion for an uncertain world," he said.
The Dow finished at 7,895.66, up three-tenths of 1 percent for the day and 1.3 percent for the week, while the Nasdaq index jumped 17.52 points, to 1,663.77, up 1.1 percent for the day and 1.3 percent for the week. The S.& P. 500 rose 1.22 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,020.09, putting its gain for the week at 1.1 percent, while the Russell index of 2,000 smaller-company stocks climbed 7.97 points, or 2.2 percent, to 363.26, finishing the week up 2.7 percent.
It is the second consecutive week that all the major indexes have climbed, and this week's rally came despite the deflating comments Wednesday from the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Alan Greenspan, who told Congress that "at the moment there is no endeavor to coordinate interest rate cuts."
A statement from the finance ministers of the Group of Seven, which comprises the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada, and a speech Monday by President Clinton both raised expectations of an immediate global rate cut to help stabilize world financial markets.
The rush of worried investors into the Treasury market, which may have been accelerated by Mr. Greenspan's comments, is threatening to drive the yield on the 30-year bond below 5 percent, to levels that have not been seen for 30 years. Yesterday the yield fell to 5.14 percent, from 5.18 percent Thursday, while the price, which moves in the opposite direction, rose 18/32 , to 10515/32 .
Analysts, however, are still split over whether the 5 percent barrier, which has stood for the entire careers of most traders on Wall Street, will be breached. Kevin Flanagan, a money market economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, said it would take a deepening of the present global financial crisis to bring yields below 5 percent.
He argued that the Fed will not cut its short-term interest rate target when policy makers meet Sept. 29 because there is no clear sign yet that the American economy is slowing down enough. But he is still forecasting a Fed move by the end of the year, by which time he expects the appearance of clear signals that the collapse of economies abroad has begun to sap growth here.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, a benchmark for home mortgage rates, dropped to 4.69 percent, from 4.76 percent, presaging a continuing decline in mortgage interest rates. Thirty-year mortgage rates at 6.66 percent are now the lowest they have been in about 30 years and should help stimulate the housing market.
But interest rates on mortgages and high-grade corporate debt have not fallen nearly as much as Treasury yields, and the interest rates on junk bonds have risen. Because of this, the stimulus to the economy from lower Government rates will be muted.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since October 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C3)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (54%); JPM (LSE) (54%); 8634 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (65%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (65%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; INTEREST RATES STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (95%); BOND MARKETS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (62%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



494 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: A Little Town and the Big Top;
After Months of Traveling, Circus Settles in New Home

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

DATELINE: WALDEN, N.Y.

 BODY:
"Here's the town the circus came to, when it came to town," said Darren Hernandez, the Village Manager of this postage stamp-size community straddling the Wallkill River in the Hudson Valley.
He smiled with satisfaction. "And then it decided to stay." 
 Now, 12586, the Walden ZIP code, is the first permanent address of the Big Apple Circus, a 21-year-old icon of street-smart entertainment that is celebrated for pitching its one-ring tent in the urban wilderness.
The circus's new home is far from Gotham -- nearly 70 miles to the north, actually -- in a former wire-extruding factory on 30 woodsy acres. In a cavernous, 50,000-square-foot industrial space, the circus has created a place to mount its new shows, including "Happy On," scheduled to make its debut in Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center on Oct. 22.
So this all-American Orange County village, once trumpeted as "the Sheffield of America" for its knife manufacturing before the factories closed and the jobs left, has been learning to live with an exotic, extravagantly international invasion of more than 100 circus tummlers, tumblers and big-top eccentrics, not to mention 3 elephants, 27 dogs, 8 horses and 8 parakeets.
There are, of course, a few residents who have made it known that they think Big Apple should be contributing more to Walden's diminished local tax base. Economic development aside, though, few people would disagree that the arrival of the circus has done wonders for Walden's communal self-esteem, which suffered mightily not long ago when a radio shock jock from the other side of the Hudson decided to make the village the butt of a bizarre guerrilla war of the airwaves. The circus people might be a bit odd, but any discomfort along those lines tends to pale against being known in radioland as New York's version of Dogpatch.
For the most part, village residents say, they have grown accustomed to the sight of a dozen Chinese acrobats carrying off 35-pound bags of rice from the supermarket, to encounters with juggling troupes in the laundromat, and to glimpses of elephants and horses taking their exercise.
But grocery schleppers in the Thruway Shopping Center, near the circus headquarters, still do a double take when they catch sight of Bello Nock, the Big Apple's star clown, with his four-inch-high, er, platform of stiffly sprayed reddish-blond hair.
"Sometimes," he said, "they ask to touch it." He lets them.
"At first we were concerned that they'd be carnival types, who are pretty tough," said June DeBates, a waitress at the Walden Diner. "But we learned that circus people are really the salt of the earth."
Scott Hecht, a Walden tow truck operator who has come to the aid of Big Apple vehicles, put it this way: "You know how some people have dogs in their backyards? Well, these people have elephants."
And a lot of other stuff, too. While the clowny red and white tent on Edmunds Lane is visible to any of the 6,500 townsfolk who drive by, hidden away on the property is a tiny circus village of 40 house trailers and dozens of vehicles, including cars, trucks, generator vans and the communal dining trailer that serves more than 300 meals a day.
Behind the old factory, the performers have arrayed their mobile homes in a tidy grid of brand- new streets. (One, named after circus benefactors Belle and Murray Nathan, has a yellow street sign proclaiming it "Nathan Lane.")
This is the troupe's first season in the fully renovated $4 million building, although Big Apple first began leasing space in Walden in 1995 before buying the factory last year and producing a show in the unfinished space.
For two decades "we'd been creating the show under primitive conditions," said Paul Binder, Big Apple's 55-year-old founder and artistic director. The first performances of the fledgling circus in 1977 were mounted in the tiny Synod House at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in Manhattan.
Then, Big Apple shuffled off to makeshift rehearsal spaces in East Harlem and SoHo in Manhattan and Floyd Bennett Field in Brooklyn, "where helicopters took off in the middle of the night and the Concorde swooped over us twice a day," said Katja Schumann, the show's star equestrian. "Now that was noise."
Frustrated by high city prices, and guided by a circus friend of Mr. Binder who trains bears and lives in nearby Middletown, Big Apple made the connection to Walden, where lower-priced properties were available.
The compound is formally designated the Slifka Family Creative Center (after the major donor) and has five indoor practice spaces as well as workshops to restore the show's infrastructure, which takes a beating when the show is on the road.
"Wherever we traveled, we were always at home in the ring surrounded by the family of the circus," said Michael Christensen, creative director. "But now, for the first time, we can feel at home in a place."
Around Walden, the feeling is mostly mutual. "They've been good neighbors, and Big Apple has been a good thing for Walden," said Carl J. Aiello, editor and publisher of the local weekly, The Wallkill Valley Times on East Main Street.
For several years now, Big Apple has lent its performers to the annual Walden Day celebration in the village square. And it has welcomed as many as 1,500 local residents to its annual open house. When new shows are ready, the circus also holds a dress rehearsal for 500 invited guests, many of them suppliers and area residents.
And then there is Walden's redemption from that nasty business with the disk jockey, Bob Wohlfeld, a.k.a. "the Wolf," who made the village the target of several years' worth of jokes on his morning radio show. Despite complaints to the radio station, WPDH in Poughkeepsie, and threats against Mr. Wohlfeld, the assault on Walden's reputation subsided only a year ago, when Mr. Wohlfeld left WPDH for a station in Albany.
If Walden's reputation is on the rebound, its economy had already been doing a bit better when the circus settled in. It is a hub for the region's dairy and apple farmers and has a mix of manufacturing, retail and service businesses. And commuters from New York City and from I.B.M. country across the Hudson have spied bargains in the village's rich stock of picturesque 19th-century buildings.
Still, a vocal minority is resentful that the circus, which enjoys nonprofit status because of its children's educational programs, is likely to remove a building that once represented the village's sixth-largest source of property tax income from the local, county and school district tax rolls.
"I'm not opposed to circuses -- why, I even went to the circus in Moscow a few years ago," said David C. Lustig Jr., 76, the owner of Lustig Realty on Main Street and a longtime member of the village Planning Board. "But that building could have accommodated another industrial plant."
Furthermore, he said, the wire factory employed more than 100 local workers who spent money 12 months a year in the community. The circus occupies the property for two months with up to 140 performers and crew members before it goes on tour. Three box office staff members and a caretaker remain.
For now, Big Apple is still paying $45,000 in annual real estate taxes to the Town of Montgomery, Mr. Binder said, although the circus has challenged the payment under its tax-exempt status. Besides, he said, "the factory had been closed for years," adding, "There was little hope of reviving the site."
Mr. Lustig is hardly the only circus critic in Walden. "Given their tax-exempt status, the least they could do for the town is to put on a show for us," said Frank Ciliberto, owner of a Walden plumbing and heating business for 30 years. "Big Apple travels all over the country, but their hometown never gets to see the show."
The invitation-only dress rehearsal is limited to 500 because Big Apple does not have on-site parking spaces for enough guests to fill the 1,980-seat tent, Mr. Binder said.
But beyond this, the circus people say, the point is that they are not in Walden to entertain; they are there to build new shows.
And so, in one of the rehearsal spaces on a recent afternoon, under the harsh factory lights, Todd Robbins, the comedic soloist with the seven-member circus band, was giving a virtuoso performance on washboard, cowbell, klaxon, duck call and, at one point, the Knall 9-millimeter starter pistol. Mr. Robbins explained that he is capable "of the full range from high hokum to the lowest form of hokum."
Living in Walden "is really a dream come true for us," Mr. Christensen said. He recalled a time when all Big Apple practice sessions were scheduled in one tent. "It's such a wonderful problem to have -- to try to figure out which of five rehearsal spaces to put something in."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Big Apple Circus's elephants walking along Coldenham Road in Walden, N.Y., with William and Shannon Woodcock. Performers take time for an impromptu game of soccer as others clean the circus big top. New shows are mounted here. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Two acrobats, Regina Dobrovitskaya and Julian Stachowski, on a monument in Walden's square. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B5)
 
Map showing the location of Walden: Walden, N.Y., once the "Sheffield of America," is now Circus Town. (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS711190 OTHER PERFORMING ARTS COMPANIES (84%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS BIG APPLE CIRCUS LTD (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BIG APPLE CIRCUS

GEOGRAPHIC: WALDEN (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: CIRCUSES CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (74%); CUTLERY & FLATWARE MFG (69%); PLANT CLOSINGS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (64%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN WALDEN DINER (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



495 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Global Turmoil Leaves Europe Wondering How to Shield Economy

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: ROME, Sept. 18

 BODY:
As dismal news accumulates around the globe, European economies are proving remarkably resilient. But evidence is multiplying that the Continent's two-year-old recovery is at risk, fueling debate about how to shield Europe from the effects of turmoil elsewhere.
With exports to Asia, South America and Russia flagging, corporate profits are under growing pressure. In Britain, two major semiconductor makers, Japan's Fujitsu and Germany's Siemens, announced plans to close factories, citing cheap imports from Asian countries where currencies have collapsed. In Germany, national elections later this month have markets unnerved by the possibility, for the first time in 16 years, that a Socialist-led government might be returned to power. 
 Wim Duisenberg, head of the new European Central Bank, acknowledged this week that international financial turmoil would have a "dampening effect" on global growth, and that Europe would not be spared. Several major banks and brokerage firms have already trimmed their European growth projections.
"We'd gladly be an isle of the blessed," said Werner Becker, senior economist at Deutsche Bank Research in Frankfurt. "But we're not."
Still, Europe is expected to sustain reasonable growth. While Mr. Becker is among a number of economists calling attention to the region's vulnerability, even he sees no major crisis brewing. He recently predicted that growth for the 11 countries that will adopt the euro on Jan. 1 should be around 2.6 percent for next year, scaling back modestly from his earlier prediction of 3.1 percent.
But the Continent will not escape unscathed from the turmoil raging in Asia and Latin America, and there is fear that things will get worse.
"The contagion effect," he said, "poses a considerable risk for Western Europe."
Similarly, J. Paul Horne, European equity market economist at Salomon Smith Barney in London, trimmed his European growth forecast for 1999, to 2.6 percent from 3.2 percent. For Britain, he projects under 1 percent growth and calls a recession a possibility.
Particularly unsettling, Mr. Becker said, is the slowdown in Britain, which buys roughly 20 percent of the goods and services exported by Continental Europe.
Other leading countries, like Germany, are heavily exposed in Eastern Europe. Though Russia accounts for a mere 2 percent of German trade, Central European countries like Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic now absorb fully 10 percent of German exports, more than the United States. Thus, any spillover of the collapse of Russia's already weak economy into Central Europe would indirectly hurt Germany.
Still, by many measures, Europe is in enviable shape.
Though Britain may be on the brink of recession, other leading countries, like France, Germany and Spain, still show robust growth. Germany's central bank, the Bundesbank has signaled that it continues to see inflation as a threat, and officials from other nations have played down the possibility of quick action on interest rates or other responses to the global economic woes.
Indeed, the Bundesbank, in its September monthly report, depicted Europe's economies as havens of calm and stability amid the turmoil disrupting many of the world's financial markets.
Mr. Duisenberg said that broad indicators showed Europe can expect to be still on track, with "continued expansion in the second quarter, albeit at a possibly more moderate pace" than in the first. Taken together, the data showed inflation growing in Spain, Portugal and Ireland, and an unaccustomed shift in France and Germany, where domestic consumption, rather than exports, fueled growth and progress was made in job creation. In the first eight months of 1998, 320,000 people were taken off Germany's jobless rolls.
European markets have revived since hitting lows in early September, and business investment is expected to get a further lift after the euro is introduced.
"If you look at the four or five channels of transmission between emerging markets and Western Europe, then the real effects have been pretty moderate," said Eric Barthalon, chief economist at Paribas in Paris.
Trade among the 11 euro-zone countries is so extensive, he said, that trade with the rest of the world now accounts for only about 11 percent of the region's total gross domestic product, less than the share in the similarly sized United States, where it is about 14 percent.
Moreover, falling prices for commodities, like oil, benefit European manufacturers, and the collapse of stock markets in Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe has bolstered Europe financially, by attracting capital in a "flight to quality," he said.
Unlike in the United States, European personal and corporate indebtedness has not grown substantially in recent years, and because Europeans invest in stocks at a lower rate than Americans, less money was drained from the pockets of European consumers by this summer's global market decline.
"We are confident domestic demand will remain strong," Mr. Horne said.
One significant problem for Europe is the weakening of the dollar against European currencies, which makes products sold to the United States more expensive. And while a weakened dollar tended in the past to drag fragile European currencies like the Italian lira down with it, the euro agreement reached last May has forced the dollar to move more or less uniformly against all 11 currencies.
Leaders in several European countries, echoing President Clinton's appeal earlier this week, are raising their voices for some kind of concerted push to contain the fast-spreading global crisis.
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain has been canvassing leaders of the Group of Seven industrial nations for proposals. In Italy, Prime Minister Romano Prodi, addressing Parliament Wednesday, said the seven must find a "common neo-Keynesian or expansion policy to stimulate the economy" in response to the world's problems. Both leaders are scheduled to meet with President Clinton in New York on Monday.
While Mr. Prodi appeared to be calling for lower interest rates, European central bankers, like Alan Greenspan of the Federal Reserve Board, are clearly not yet ready to act.
Many European economists are not convinced a rate cut is even necessary. Europe's long road to acceptance of the euro, which required governments in the 11 subscribing countries to rein in their fiscal policies, has had a lingering effect akin to monetary easing, from which Europe's economy will continue to benefit for a while.
With the Jan. 1 adoption of the euro by the 11, the new European Central Bank must set a Europe-wide "convergence rate" for short-term interest rates, and a growing number of economists believe it will be pegged to the Bundesbank's current short-term rate of 3.3 percent. Germany and neighboring countries with low interest rates will "doubtless play a type of benchmark role" in setting interest rates for all of Europe, Hans Tietmeyer, the Bundesbank president, said today.
Mr. Tietmeyer said that despite economic turmoil in Asia and Russia, Europe's economy had "remained relatively robust -- at least so far."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (83%); SIE (LSE) (83%); SIE (FRA) (83%); SIE (BIT) (83%); SI (NYSE) (83%); FUJ (LSE) (72%); 6702 (TSE) (72%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (83%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (83%); FUJITSU LTD (72%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (95%); ASIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); RECESSION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TRENDS (76%); EURO (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); ELECTRONICS (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (71%); ELECTIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); CLOSINGS (56%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



496 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Japanese Parties Agree On Economic Strategy
Japan's governing party said that it had reached agreement with the political opposition on how to bolster the jittery financial system and begin reviving the ailing economy.
 The agreement announced by Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi ended weeks of deadlock that had intensified criticism of Japan for dithering over how to solve its problems as economic turmoil spread to financial markets around the world. Page A1. 

U.S. Consumers Are Still Upbeat
Since the financial troubles in Russia, the tumble in stock prices in the United States and elsewhere and the release of Kenneth W. Starr's report, consumers have turned only slightly more cautious, according to a major poll of consumer attitudes. The willingness of consumers to spend is viewed as good news for the economy and President Clinton. A1.
 
Central Bank Frees Ruble Reserves
The Russian central bank said that the country's insolvent banks could use $1.65 billion in precious ruble reserves to enable them to make good on customers' bills and debts that are going unpaid. The Government hopes freeing up the reserves will grease the wheels of the payment system and get financial activity moving again. A4.
 
Right to Sue H.M.O.'s Upheld
A provision in a new Texas law allowing patients to sue health maintenance organizations and other insurers for malpractice was upheld by a Federal judge in Houston, but a second provision allowing patients to appeal to an independent panel when their health plan denies coverage for treatment was struck down. C14.
 
Shareholders Back Chrysler Merger
Chrysler shareholders strongly endorsed forming a huge new international auto maker by merging with Daimler-Benz of Germany. Following their lead, Daimler-Benz's shareholders, meeting well into the night in Stuttgart, overwhelmingly approved the combination. C2.
 
President of UAL Steps Down
John A. Edwardson, left, the president and chief operating officer of UAL, the parent of United Airlines, resigned under pressure from the company's machinists', pilots' and flight attendants' unions, which opposed him as the eventual successor to Gerald Greenwald, the chief executive, who is expected to retire next year. C2.
 
B.P. Sets Target for Emissions Cut
British Petroleum announced today a "firm overall target" to cut emissions by 10 percent of their 1990 levels by 2010, setting a figure for the first time. C2.
 
S.E.C. Drops Insider-Trading Case
The Securities and Exchange Commission has dropped a three-year inquiry into accusations of insider trading by ICN Pharmaceuticals and its chief executive, Milan Panic. But the S.E.C. will start an enforcement action against the company and Mr. Panic for failing to disclose adverse information about its viral drug, ribavirin, the company said. C3.
 
AMP Bolsters Defense Against Bid
AMP stepped up its defense against Allied Signal's hostile bid of $44.50 a share by lowering the threshold of its shareholder rights plan, which makes it prohibitively expensive for Allied to buy more than 10 percent of AMP's stock. C3.
 
Guilty Plea in Trading Scheme
A brokerage employee who worked on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange has pleaded guilty to conspiring with exchange floor brokers to cover up an illegal trading scheme. C14.
 
Alcatel to Consider Share Buyback
Seeking to contain the damage done by its warning on Thursday that its profit would not meet forecasts this year, Alcatel said that it would consider a significant share buyback program. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,895.66 up 21.89
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.14% down 0.04
The Dollar -- 132.60 yen up 0.42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (52%); BP (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); BP PLC (52%); DAIMLER-BENZ OF GERMANY (62%); S E C (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLER-BENZ OF GERMANY (62%); S E C (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); INSIDER TRADING (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); MERGERS (75%); TAKEOVERS (75%); BANK FAILURES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); INSURANCE (71%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); ANTIVIRALS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (66%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (66%); EMISSIONS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (64%); APPROVALS (64%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); JUDGES (64%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); JOHN EDWARDSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



497 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Court Backs Giuliani's Way Of Assigning Workfare Hours

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER 

 BODY:
A state appeals court has upheld the way New York City calculates the number of hours that welfare recipients must work in its workfare program to receive benefits.
The State Appellate Division in Manhattan, in a ruling released on Thursday, overturned a lower court decision that said the city's method of calculation, which is based on the minimum wage, was unfair. 
 Since the Giuliani administration created its version of workfare in 1995, city officials have been calculating participants' hours so that their benefits are roughly equal to the minimum wage. A welfare recipient who receives the equivalent of $100 a week in benefits, for example, must work about 20 hours a week in workfare. The minimum wage is $5.15 an hour.
Lawyers for several workfare participants challenged the city's approach in court. In May 1997, Justice Jane S. Solomon of State Supreme Court ruled that the city must base its calculations on what it pays regular city workers for similar tasks, as much as $8 to $10 an hour.
More than 32,000 New Yorkers are enrolled in workfare, known formally as the Work Experience Program. Most of them sweep city streets, clean parks or perform clerical tasks in return for their welfare benefits.
Lawyers for workfare participants had praised Justice Solomon's ruling as a breakthrough that might mean workfare participants would be treated more like other workers. They also said that if the ruling was upheld the city would either have to reduce sharply the number of hours workfare participants put in each week or increase welfare benefits.
But in its unanimous decision, the Appellate Division noted that state law specifically authorizes paying the minimum wage to workfare participants. "Moreover, there is a historical recognition that public-assistance recipients performing tasks in exchange for benefits are not public employees," the court said.
Randy L. Levine, the Deputy Mayor for economic development, praised the decision yesterday. "It's a very sound ruling, a common-sense ruling, because it recognizes what the Mayor has been saying for a long time: welfare is a temporary situation, unionization is a permanent situation," Mr. Levine said. "It's like apples and oranges."
Marc Cohan, the lawyer representing workfare participants in the case, could not be reached for comment late yesterday.
In another court ruling on workfare, a state judge has temporarily blocked the city's Human Resources Administration, which oversees welfare, from changing its rules determining which welfare recipients enrolled in college can be ordered into workfare.
The city agency recently decided that welfare recipients enrolled in college work-study programs -- some of whom had been exempt from workfare -- would now have to participate. Lawyers for welfare recipients challenged the new rule, and on Wednesday, Justice Richard F. Braun of State Supreme Court issued a preliminary injunction against the city. Justice Braun said the city must individually assess students' skills and work history before assigning them to workfare.
The city will appeal the decision, said Debra Sproles, a spokeswoman for the city agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STATE SUPREME COURT (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE SUPREME COURT (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) DECISIONS & RULINGS (91%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CITIES (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); JUDGES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%); 

PERSON: RANDY L LEVINE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



498 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
JAPANESE PARTIES HAMMER OUT DEAL ON AIDING ECONOMY

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Ending weeks of bitter deadlock, Japan's governing party said it had reached a landmark agreement tonight with the political opposition that could lay the groundwork for revamping the nation's teetering financial system and reviving the recessionary economy.
The deadlock had intensified international criticism of Japan for dithering in dealing with its enormous banking system and bad debts even as financial instability has spread through markets around the world. 
 "I have decided that as the world's second-largest economy, Japan should not become the source of a global financial meltdown," Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi told reporters this evening.
The worry that Japan could be blamed for a global slowdown underscores the critical challenge facing the country as it tries to adopt legislation that will bring about lasting stability in the financial system.
The last-minute agreement was vague, glossing over crucial questions. The deal also could unravel, as have many other efforts aimed at stimulating the economy, which is in the midst of its worst performance since World War II. But the agreement gave Mr. Obuchi something to show President Clinton when the two meet Tuesday in Tarrytown, N.Y.
To obtain a deal, Mr. Obuchi appeared to have made significant concessions, adopting key planks of the opposition, a coalition of parties that controls the upper house of Parliament and has blocked movement in financial legislation for weeks.
These include sharply reducing the power of the Finance Ministry to set financial policy and supervise the liquidation of banks, and the "temporary" nationalization of the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, one of the nation's largest and most enfeebled banks. He also appears to have agreed to abolish a $100 billion pool of public funds set up to rescue banks.
It is therefore not clear how much money the Government will make available to help resolve the bad debts held by Japanese banks.
The long tussle over the financial legislation reflected a subtle political joust among the parties. The opposition wanted to discredit the Government and weaken its authority so that new general elections might be called, not immediately, but in the next year or so, when the opposition has built up its local organizations. And Mr. Obuchi wanted to show that he could get things done and take steps toward economic recovery.
It is not clear who won, and it may not be clear for months. The political consequences may simply depend on whether these measures restore some vitality to the economy by next year and thus improve the popularity of the Government.
Key opposition figures were exultant tonight, declaring that the Government had capitulated to their demands. In Washington, United States officials said they could not assess the plan because they did not expect to be fully briefed on it until Monday. They appeared particularly focused on the question of whether the plan would commit Japan to inject billions in public funds to improve the capital base of banks after they were nationalized.
The national security adviser, Sandy Berger, who said he had not seen the plan, said, "I think we have a strong sense of urgency that the Japanese Government move as quickly as possible to stimulate its economy, restore growth to deal with its banking problem, open its markets, to deregulate."
Movement on the banking legislation has been viewed as crucial because it would allow Japan to proceed with the task of grappling with its frail banking system, which many economists regard as the key to restoring its vitality.
Earlier this week, Standard & Poor's, a major credit rating agency, said that Japan's bad debts could climb to as high as 30 percent of the country's total economic output.
The debt has been an enormous drag on the entire economy for nearly eight years, and has prevented Japan from acting as an engine of growth for both Asia and the rest of the world.
The agreement was released after the close of Tokyo's long-battered stock market, which now stands about where it was 12 years ago. Bond yields, a barometer of economic weakness, have plummeted, with the benchmark 10-year bond touching a record low of 0.64 percent at one point in trading today.
The Government has begun carrying out a giant fiscal stimulus package, worth about $126 billion in real spending and loans, along with big tax cuts. But it has also acknowledged that even with this program, the economy is expected to contract by more than 1 percent this fiscal year. Some economists say the spending package focuses too much on white elephant public works and will prove difficult to carry out as swiftly as planned.
Government officials denied that the deal was cemented just so that Mr. Obuchi would not go empty-handed when he met Mr. Clinton.
"Japan's policies are not formulated as gifts for the President," said Koji Tsuruoka, a Foreign Ministry official. "It could become a turning point in promoting change and reform in the banking system."
Because the ruling Liberal Democratic Party appears to have achieved the deal mainly by acquiescing to the opposition, most of the opposition parties seemed reasonably satisfied. They can claim that their own proposal will become the basis for the new legislation.
"We reached an agreement in principle with the Government," said Naoto Kan, head of the Democratic Party, the main opposition group, after he emerged from a meeting with Mr. Obuchi. "Now it is time to put it in place."
It appears that the Government will have to rewrite its bill for establishing "bridge banks," the original centerpiece of its financial legislation now before Parliament. The idea was to create a bridge bank to take on the bad debts of failed banks and collect on those debts or sell them off at cut-rate prices. But the Government resisted using the plan with the big, frail banks, while the opposition demanded a mechanism to deal with such institutions.
"We had to compromise quite a bit," said Yasuhisa Shiozaki, a member of Parliament and one of the negotiators for the Liberal Democrats. But he added that the deal was still "broad" and the two sides "have to work on it to clear up the details."
The new, rewritten bills are expected to pass Parliament as early as mid-October.
Mr. Shiozaki and others said they did not expect the agreement to fall apart. Still, the wording was vague enough to allow multiple interpretations, enabling each side to claim that it was comfortable with the deal.
"It's a very broad framework, so the real negotiations will come," said Motohisa Furukawa, a Parliament member for the Democratic Party and one of the negotiators. He described the deal as "chameleon-like" -- that is, it can be "read sometimes in two ways" or more.
Under the deal, the Government is expected to temporarily nationalize the Long-Term Credit Bank, an institution with 25 trillion yen, or $186 billion, in assets and a capital base so weak that opposition groups have deemed it insolvent.
But the two sides still need to thrash out exactly how Long-Term Credit will be taken over by the state and whether it will be declared technically bankrupt. The Liberal Democrats have resisted declaring such a large institution bankrupt, partly out of fear that doing so would provoke financial instability.
"Also as part of the deal, the opposition will help draw up a new mechanism to deal with hobbled, weakly capitalized banks under the supervision of a bankruptcy administrator.
An official at the Bank of Japan, the nation's central bank, ruled out the possibility of a default by Long-Term Credit if it was put under state control, according to Japanese news media, and he said the Bank of Japan would provide loans, even without collateral, to Long-Term Credit to prevent a credit squeeze.
While many economists agree that the Liberal Democrats may have a point in worrying about instability in the overall system, some have criticized the emphasis that politicians have put on the problems of Long-Term Credit, or LTCB, an institution set up after World War II to provide long-term loans to help finance economic rebuilding. They fear that once a solution to that bank's crisis is reached, officials may feel that they have finished their work and relax their resolve to overhaul the financial system at large.
"The world will closely watch LTCB and shift its focus to the next phase of banking consolidation and restructuring," said Charles H. Dallara, managing director at the Institute of International Finance. "The issue is: Can they pull the entire banking system through consolidation?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN BANK OF JAPAN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG-TERM CREDIT BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NATIONALIZATION OF INDUSTRY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); NATIONALIZATION (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); TRENDS (63%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; OBUCHI, KEIZO (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



499 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Summer of Trouble Still Doesn't Furrow Consumers' Brows

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
The financial and political blows of recent weeks have yet to shake Americans' basic faith in the United States economy or their own finances -- good news for the seven-and-a-half-year-old expansion and for the President.
Since the Russian economy's collapse, the tumble in stock prices and the release of the Starr report, consumers have turned only slightly more cautious, according to a major poll of consumer attitudes disclosed yesterday. The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index, a barometer of influences on spending, slipped to 100.1 in September, from 104.1 in August -- mostly because consumers' expectations for the economy in the next year or so are somewhat less upbeat. 
 By past measures, confidence remains exceptionally high. Between the late 1960's and early 1997, the Michigan index hit 100 or higher only three times, even during the long, strong expansion of the 1980's. Its average value since 1947, when the survey began, is 85.
"Consumers are demonstrating a remarkable degree of resilience," said Richard Curtin, director of the Center for Consumer Surveys at the University of Michigan. "If this is all the decline there is, the consumer sector will be the strongest part of the economy."
Consumers account for two-thirds of the $8-trillion-a-year United States economy. With other sectors, like business investment, slowing, a sharp retrenchment by consumers could tip the economy into recession.
"Consumers perceived that the economy slowed significantly in the third quarter and they expect the slowdown to continue in the year ahead," Mr. Curtin said. "But they still do not expect a recession."
That, of course, is especially good news for President Clinton, whose popularity has always been entwined with the health of the economy. As Congress considers what action, if any, to take against the President in coming months, public opinion will carry great weight.
A poll released Wednesday showed that a near-record portion -- more than two-thirds -- of households rate the condition of the economy and their own finances as good to excellent.
"That tells us what the average American is experiencing," said Gary Langer, who updates that personal financial survey each week for Money magazine and ABC. "What they're experiencing influences decisions they make and what decisions they make influence the economy."
Although spending is no longer growing rapidly, consumers are still in a buying mood. With the General Motors strike settled, car dealers are reporting brisk sales. Despite a wait-and-see attitude among prospective buyers of luxury homes in some parts of the country and a drop in housing starts in August, most builders are reporting strong traffic and a jump in permits. And retailers posted excellent results on the Labor Day weekend.
The big fear lately has been that fear itself will turn into a self-fulfilling prophecy. Consumers could take one look at the declining Dow Jones industrial average, conclude that the economy will follow stocks downward, and retrench in a hurry. Something similar happened in July 1990 after Saddam Hussein invaded Kuwait: worldwide oil prices doubled and the economy slid into recession.
The Michigan poll is reassuring on this score. Back in 1990, confidence, which had been hovering at 90, plunged by 10 points in the month after the Kuwait invasion and by 25 points within three months.
"In June and July 1990, we were jumping up and down yelling about the way consumer confidence was cratering," Mr. Langer said. "We're not jumping up and down right now."
The Michigan report is a preliminary one. Conducted over the first two weeks of the month, it is based on telephone interviews with roughly 325 people, out of a total monthly sample of 500 households, chosen to be representative of the nation's consumers. One encouraging sign is that the tenor of responses did not deteriorate over the polling period, despite the avalanche of bad news from Washington.
The September reading seems to confirm what pollsters have long suspected: that the stock market and Washington do not loom as large in consumer consciousness as do everyday pocketbook issues. "People don't look to the stock market for cues about the condition of the economy," Mr. Langer said. "They look to their own experience, especially their pay, their job prospects and the cost of things they have to buy."
Mr. Curtin said that it would be surprising if the President's troubles affected confidence much. "In Watergate there wasn't a direct effect," he said, "but rather an indirect one, as consumers eventually concluded that the President was too preoccupied to deal with the growing economic problems."
It is not hard to come up with reasons consumers might continue to feel good. Prices are remarkably tame, rising 1.6 percent in the last year, compared with 1.7 percent the previous year. Consumers are paying more for clothing and many services, but they have rarely seen lower gasoline prices. Home mortgage rates have plummeted to a 30-year low.
Consumers' moods are most sensitive to their incomes and job prospects. After-tax income is growing handily, and the economy is still adding an average of 200,000 jobs a month. Consumers' biggest concern, Mr. Curtin said, is that economic troubles abroad will result in layoffs and higher unemployment at home. Outside of a few manufacturing industries, such cutbacks have not yet materialized. This week, the Government reported that first-time unemployment claims fell below 300,000 in the second week of September, a 10-year low.
To be sure, consumer spending was expected to slow from its red-hot pace in the first half of the year. Spending then grew 5 percent, outpacing the 3 percent growth in after-tax income. Spending was so strong, in fact, that the saving rate -- the difference between income and spending -- narrowed to nearly zero by summer. "Obviously, that couldn't last under any circumstances," said Bruce Steinberg, the chief economist at Merrill Lynch.
The drop in the stock market -- nearly 20 percent from the July high until the end of August -- means that well-to-do households that own stock can no longer count on automatic portfolio growth to do their saving for them. The extra kick in consumer spending during the previous three and a half years as stock prices soared will now evaporate. The wealth effect -- how much extra spending consumers do as their wealth grows on paper -- contributed about $75 billion to overall consumer spending in three years.
In short, most economists expect spending to grow no faster than income -- about 2 to 3 percent in the next year. That is half the pace of earlier this year, but still solid.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Housing Construction" shows new private housing started and permits authorized during the month, from March 1997 through Aug. 1998. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); LANSING, MI, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MARKET RESEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TRENDS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); RETAILERS (71%); HOUSING STARTS (64%); CONSTRUCTION (62%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); STRIKES (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (56%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



500 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-6
 
Brother of Ex-President Tied to Mexico Drug Trade
Swiss investigators have concluded that a brother of Mexico's former President Carlos Salinas de Gortari played a central role the country's cocaine trade, raking in huge bribes to protect the flow of drugs into the United States. The report also alleges that the brother, Raul, who has been jailed on murder charges, channeled drug money to Carlos's presidential campaign. A1 

The Mexican rancher who was the apparent target of a drug-related massacre on Thursday was tortured in his home before gunmen shot him along with 17 relatives and neighbors, the authorities said. The cattle rancher, Fermin Castro, headed a small criminal organization that smuggled drugs into California. A6
 
Clinton May Postpone Asia Trip
President Clinton will probably postpone an official visit to India and Pakistan because both nations tested nuclear devices in May and have shown little inclination to defuse their arms race, officials said. A4
 
Bosnian Serb Vote Alarms U.S.
American officials said they were dismayed by projections that Nikola Poplasen, an extreme nationalist, had defeated the American-backed incumbent, Biljana Plavsic, in presidential elections for the Serbian Republic in Bosnia. The election of Mr. Poplasen may threaten to undo American efforts to reintegrate Bosnian Serbs, Croats and Muslims into a single nation. A5
 
Russia May Dip Into Reserves
Russia's central bank said the country's insolvent banks could use about $1.65 billion in precious ruble reserves to help them make good on customers' bills and debts. A4
 
Tensions Rise in Albania
The Albanian Parliament voted overwhelmingly to lift the immunity of former President Sali Berisha, clearing the way for his arrest on charges that he tried to overthrow the Government. It was unclear whether the Government would attempt to serve an arrest warrant, a move that could set off deepening unrest among his followers. A5
 
400 Missing in Ferry Sinking
Nearly 400 people were missing after a ferry sank in rough seas whipped up by a typhoon south of Manila, the Philippine Navy said. The ferry, Princess of the Orient, sank near Caballo island, about 62 miles south of Manila. Only 14 people were rescued, officials said, but two navy patrol ships were combing the area for more survivors. A4
 
Nigerian Exile Is Cleared
The Nigerian Government dropped treason charges against the exiled Nobel Prize-winning writer Wole Soyinka and 14 other people. Nigeria's military ruler, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, has said he wants the charges dropped to further national reconciliation. Mr. Soyinka, who teaches at Emory University in Atlanta, could not be reached for comment. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A7-11, 16
 
Partisan Vote to Release Clinton's Video Testimony
The Republican-controlled House Judiciary Committee voted along party lines to release the videotape of President Clinton's grand jury testimony, along with 2,800 pages of documents from the inquiry into his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky. The materials were set to be made public on Monday. A1
 
President Clinton's lawyers and advisers said they agreed to the videotaping of his grand jury appearance to win other concessions from the Whitewater independent counsel. A9
 
Several speakers at the Christian Coalition's convention expressed outrage at President Clinton, while others, like Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senator Trent Lott, left, the Republican leader, called on the audience to pray for the President. A9
 
The 400-plus-page report of the independent counsel is selling at brisker rates than is Tom Clancy's new novel. A10
 
Lawyers for Paula Corbin Jones are planning to ask a Federal judge in Little Rock, Ark., next week to hold President Clinton in contempt of court. A8
 
Senate Sustains Abortion Veto
The Senate, for the second time in two years, failed to override President Clinton's veto of a ban on a late-term abortion procedure that opponents call partial birth. The vote was 64 to 36, 3 fewer than the two-thirds needed to override. A1
 
Clinton Gets Report on Race
President Clinton officially received the report of the Advisory Board to the President's Initiative on Race. The head of the panel, John Hope Franklin, said its work had stimulated a unique discussion on race throughout the country, but one board member has criticized the report as a relatively bland document lacking any bold initiatives. A7
 
Approval of New AIDS Drug
The F.D.A. approved the easiest-to-swallow AIDS treatment in years, a once-a-day drug that offers the first good alternative to patients who cannot take the standard battery of protease inhibitors. A7
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-6
 
D'Amato and Schumer Make It Personal
The Senate race between Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and Representative Charles E. Schumer has attained a level of invective in three days usually seen only at the end of a campaign: Mr. D'Amato demanded that Mr. Schumer withdraw "blatantly wrong"' advertisements that end with the tag line: "D'Amato: Too many lies for too long." Mr. Schumer laughed him off. A1
 
Uphill Battle for Challenger
United States Representative Barbara B. Kennelly, the Democratic candidate for governor in Connecticut, acknowledged that her race against Gov. John G. Rowland had become tougher than she realized. B1
 
Union Expels Local President
The longtime president of the local representing 22,000 school cafeteria aides and crossing guards in New York City has been expelled from the union after an internal judicial panel concluded that he had wrongfully received $1.75 million. B1
 
Father Arrested in Drowning
The father of a 9-year-old Brooklyn girl was arrested on suspicion that he drowned his young daughter because she was taking too long in the bathtub, the police said. B2
 
Metro-North Lines Disrupted
A double-decker car on a Conrail freight train hit a railway overpass in the Bronx, causing a derailment that severely disrupted service on three lines of the Metro-North commuter railway for much of the day and left thousands of commuters scrambling to get to work. B3
 
City Hunts for Bogus Inspector
City officials said a man posing as a health inspector had extracted on-the-spot "fines" totaling $15,000 from 60 restaurants. B3
 
ARTS & IDEAS B7-15
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
McGwire Moves Ahead of Sosa
Mark McGwire of the St. Louis Cardinals hit his 64th homer. Sammy Sosa of the Chicago Cubs, who has 63, was hitless in his game. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-14
 
Deal on Japan's Recovery
Japan's governing party announced an agreement with the political opposition to bolster the financial system and revive the economy. A1
 
American Confidence Still High
The University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index indicated that the financial and political events of recent weeks had yet to shake Americans' basic faith in the economy or their own finances. A1
 
Bonds and Stocks Rally
The yield on the 30-year Treasury bond fell to 5.14 percent, and stock prices rallied, too. The Dow inched up 21.89 points, to 7,895.66, up 1.3 percent for the week. Other stock indexes ended the week up, as well. C1
 
Europe Seeks a Strategy
Evidence is multiplying that Europe's two-year-old recovery is at risk, fueling debate about how to shield it from turmoil elsewhere. C1
 
UAL President Resigns
John A. Edwardson resigned as UAL president and chief operating officer because the unions would not support his ascent to the top position. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES A13
 
EDITORIAL A14-15
 
Editorials: The change in Ms. Reno's course; unregulated dietary supplements; punishing Americorps; Verlyn Klinkenborg on a cattle drive.
 
Columns: Russell Baker.
 
Bridge B14
 
Weather B16
 
Crossword B12

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALBANIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CROATIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); SALINAS, CA, USA (88%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON MAY POSTPONE ASIA TRIP (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON MAY POSTPONE ASIA TRIP (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ALBANIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CROATIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); SALINAS, CA, USA (88%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (85%); FERRIES (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASON (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); GRAND JURY (76%); ARREST WARRANTS (76%); MURDER (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); COCAINE (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (71%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (69%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); NAVIES (66%); BANK FAILURES (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); TESTIMONY (61%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); WRITERS (60%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



501 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Likely To Delay Trip To Pakistan And India

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
President Clinton will probably postpone traveling to India and Pakistan because both countries tested nuclear devices in May and have shown little inclination to defuse their arms race, officials with knowledge of plans for the trip said today.
"A Presidential trip to South Asia remains on hold," a White House aide said in response to speculation that the trip, which had been planned for mid-November, is virtually certain to be put off. 
 A State Department official, responding to questions on condition that he not be identified, said he, too, understood the visits had been indefinitely postponed.
In May, India exploded five nuclear devices, and the United States imposed sanctions against the country, warning Pakistan not to respond with tests of its own. But at the end of the month the Pakistanis conducted nuclear tests, and the United States imposed sanctions on Pakistan, too.
India and Pakistan have been antagonists since 1947 when they became separate, independent nations carved out of British colonial India.
Mr. Clinton had hoped to go to India, Pakistan and possibly Bangladesh in November. Promoting trade would have been high on the agenda, as well as encouraging an end to nuclear arms competition.
The White House is not expected to announce a final decision until after the President meets with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan next week at the United Nations, but there is a growing consensus among Mr. Clinton's advisers that not enough can be accomplished then to make the trip to South Asia worthwhile.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright; the national security adviser, Samuel R. Berger, and Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen are among those who are believed to have told the President that such a trip would be unwise.
Late last year, in a wide-ranging interview on his foreign policy plans, President Clinton said he hoped to visit India and Pakistan in 1998 "if all goes well."
The most severe economic sanctions imposed against both nations after the tests were soon lifted. American diplomats met with Indian and Pakistani leaders to discuss the arms race, but made little tangible progress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTHERN ASIA (88%); BANGLADESH (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; PAKISTAN; INDIA (96%); PAKISTAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); SOUTHERN ASIA (88%); BANGLADESH (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NUCLEAR TESTS; ATOMIC WEAPONS MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMS RACE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); INTERVIEWS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); 

PERSON: STOUT, DAVID; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); NAWAZ SHARIF (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



502 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Xiaogang Journal;
Village of Small Farmers Marks Own Great Leap

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: XIAOGANG, China

 BODY:
Shooing away clouds of giant dragonflies, surrounded by lush fields of rice and platoons of clacking ducks, it is hard to imagine the parched and decrepit conditions of this little village 20 years ago that forced many of its residents to become itinerant beggars.
As a few middle-aged villagers tell their practiced story, it is even harder to imagine that these same people once fearfully defied Communist Party policy, secretly dividing up the communal farm that Mao had imposed with disastrous results. 
 In late 1978, starving and desperate, the 20 families in this village of Anhui Province in eastern China took matters into their own hands, risking the wrath of the party.
Within a few years, as the country learned of the remarkable gains in Xiaogang and a few other pioneering places, the hated communal farms would break apart all over China -- the single greatest step toward the country's vibrant, market-oriented economy of the 1990's. This village in the middle of nowhere earned an important footnote in the history of the new, post-Mao China.
Historians often focus on leadership struggles in Beijing to explain such momentous shifts in policy. But the insistent demand for change from the bottom also played what scholars say is an often overlooked role in smashing the communes. And similar grass-roots pressures could, some think, be a driving force of future convulsions in Chinese politics or economics.
Restoring the family farm, and wider decontrol of rural business that followed, "radically changed the face of China, altering the relationship between central and local authorities and perhaps providing China's best single hope of making the transition to a post-Communist world," said Joseph Fewsmith, a China scholar at Boston University.
Situated on a fertile plain between the Yangtze and Huai Rivers, Xiaogang should never have reached the nadir it did.
The disasters began soon after the forced collectivization of farming here and then the introduction of communes during the Great Leap Forward of 1958-60. Many Xiaogang residents starved to death in the catastrophic national famine that resulted from the disruption of agriculture under the Great Leap.
The bitterness among the area's farmers never dissipated, and productivity declined. In the decade up to 1978, the village required large subsidies of grain from the Government, recalled Yan Junchang, 57, who was leader of the communal village "production team" in 1978. Travelers described homes with no doors, with chairs and tables made only of mud.
"The enthusiasm of the farmers was frustrated," was how Mr. Yan described the corrosive effects of communal work in a recent interview.
Local party officials selected Mr. Yan along with Yan Hongchang, 48, who was deputy production leader in 1978, and Yan Jinchang, 55, another one of the original rebels, to meet a foreign reporter in Xiaogang, with Yan Junchang, the former team leader, apparently designated to do the talking. As in many Chinese villages, many residents are from the same clan and share the same family name.
"As team leader, no matter how hard I rang the bell or blew the whistle, I couldn't get anyone to go into the fields," Yan Junchang said. Much of the available land was not even tilled.
More and more, family members would spend months away in towns, begging for food and coins. Then in 1978 a severe drought made conditions unbearable.
At an emotional meeting at the end of that year, the family heads drew up an oath, signed with thumbprints. The parceling of land to individual households would be kept secret, they agreed. If any among them were imprisoned, the rest would raise their children to the age of 18.
The change was immediate.
"Some people even got up before dawn to go work in the fields," Mr. Yan said. The amount of land planted to grain nearly doubled in one year, and the village began producing a surplus.
Neighboring villages learned of Xiaogang's move and sought to emulate it, but angry commune officials tried to squelch the rebellion, at one point in late 1979 cutting Xiaogang off from its subsidies of seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, Mr. Yan said.
But soon after, the county party secretary visited and called this a worthy experiment. Then the Communist Party leader of Anhui Province, Wan Li, visited Xiaogang and gave his blessing -- a bold decision at a time when the top farm officials in Beijing were still promoting communal farming, true to the memory of Mao, who died in 1976.
In that first year, the village produced a large grain surplus, according to the official history, and output continued to rise. In 1980, as similar wildcat breakups of communes occurred around the country, Deng Xiaoping -- who was consolidating power as the national leader -- openly endorsed the change for the first time.
By the end of 1984 the communes had disappeared nationwide, Zhang Guangyou, a former aide to Wan Li, said in an interview. Mr. Wan himself, a largely unsung hero of China's economic reforms, quickly moved on to high office in Beijing and is now a retired party elder.
Scholars like Mr. Fewsmith warn against romanticizing the role of Xiaogang and other villages that defied national policy. Such broad national changes, he said, resulted from an interaction among grass-roots pressures, the work of sympathetic local officials and, at the top in Beijing, the drive of Deng and other reformers to oust hard-line Maoists.
Still, "Xiaogang is a legitimate symbol of independent farmer action," said Dali Yang, a Chinese-born political scientist at the University of Chicago and author of "Calamity and Reform in China" (Stanford University Press, 1996).
Even today, 70 percent of Chinese live in the countryside: the breakup of the communes altered more lives than any subsequent event. It also, scholars say, was the inspiration for Deng's much-vaunted urban economic reform in 1985, which allowed the spread of private enterprise and, in recent years, spectacular growth.
Injecting market forces into the factories and cities was easier, Mr. Yang observed, because three-fourths of the population already lived in a virtual market economy, producing not only ample food but also sought-after consumer goods.
With "market socialism" China's new dogma, Xiaogang's onetime rebels are now heroes of the post-Mao revolution. Today, Xiaogang has a colorful archway at its entrance and a paved strip of road down the middle, the better to greet the occasional official visitor. Many are expected this fall and winter to celebrate the 20th anniversary of that legendary secret oath.
Its borders expanded, the village now is home to 312 people in 75 families. If they are not nearly as prosperous as those in more advantageous locales, many farmers here have small tractors and have branched out into production of ducks and pigs and watermelons, and many homes sport refrigerators and washing machines.
These days Mr. Yan, the onetime production team leader, is careful with his words. "What we did was still under the socialist system, but the pattern was just changed," he repeats.
Both Mr. Yan and Yan Hongchang, the younger, former deputy team leader, are now officials in a nearby larger town. The older Mr. Yan said he became a party member in 1988.
"The superiority of the Communist Party led me to join," he said, looking over the green fields.
His 27-year-old son is the party secretary of Xiaogang.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Twenty years ago the farmers of Xiaogang disbanded the village's commune and helped start China's movement toward family farms. Three leaders, from left: Yan Junchang, Yan Hongchang and Yan Jingchang. (Erik Eckholm/The New York Times)
 
Map of China showing location of Xiaogang: Xiaogang earned an important footnote in post-Mao history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (90%); YANGTZE RIVER (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%); ANHUI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; XIAOGANG (CHINA); CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); EAST CHINA (90%); YANGTZE RIVER (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%); ANHUI, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); STARVATION (89%); FAMINE (78%); RICE FARMING (78%); HISTORY (77%); FAMILY FARMS (76%); FAMILY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TRENDS (71%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK YAN HONGCHANG (79%); YAN JUNCHANG (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



503 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1716 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE SUPPORTERS;
Blacks Stand by a President Who 'Has Been There for Us'

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Sept. 18

 BODY:
While moving about his Congressional district here last weekend, just after the release of Kenneth W. Starr's report, Representative John Lewis was struck by the universality of support for President Clinton that he found among black Atlantans.
He heard it at Bobby's Barber Shop. He heard it at a candidates' forum at the Ben Hill Recreation Center. He heard it at a community festival in Candler Park. 
 "People would say, 'Take care of the President, take care of my man,' " said Mr. Lewis, a Democrat who is black. "They don't want to see him resign. They don't want to see him impeached. They just want us to leave him alone because there's this deep feeling in the black community that this President has been there for us."
After a week devoted to assessing public opinion about Mr. Clinton's involvement with Monica S. Lewinsky, perhaps the most striking findings have been the circle-the-wagons defense of Mr. Clinton by black Americans and the undeniable racial gap between the views of whites and blacks.
Polls conducted after the release of the Whitewater independent counsel's report show that blacks are far more likely than whites to approve of Mr. Clinton's job performance, to regard him favorably, to trust him to keep his word, to blame his enemies for his problems and to oppose his resignation or impeachment. Even within the President's own party, black Democrats are significantly more supportive than their white counterparts.
In dozens of interviews this week, black Americans ranging from Julian Bond, the chairman of the N.A.A.C.P., to the comedian Chris Rock cited everything from Mr. Clinton's choice of friends to his choice of musical instruments in explaining that he has connected with minorities, both politically and viscerally, in a manner never achieved by previous Presidents.
And while blacks, like most Americans, are deeply disturbed by his infidelity and recklessness, they are not willing to jettison what they see as a unique relationship in exchange for an uncertain and potentially threatening future.
Many of those interviewed remarked on the ease with which Mr. Clinton moves in black circles, noting that he golfs with Vernon E. Jordan Jr., that he and his family seek spiritual counsel from the Rev. Jesse Jackson and that he sings in black churches without the aid of a hymnal. Many said there seemed to be a guiltless and unpatronizing egalitarianism in Mr. Clinton's relationships with blacks that reflected his standing as the first President to come of age after the demise of legalized segregation.
"What he has been able to project, unlike any other President in recent memory, is that he is completely and totally comfortable with black Americans," said George C. Wolfe, producer of the Joseph Papp Public Theater-New York Shakespeare Festival. "It is not something that had to be negotiated or learned."
The Rev. Joseph E. Lowery, the recently retired president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, said he knew perfectly well why black Americans were more forgiving of Mr. Clinton's transgressions than white Americans.
"It's the saxophone," Mr. Lowery said, with an impish sound in his voice. "The man has soul."
Most minorities clearly admire the President's defense of affirmative action, his appointments of black officials and judges and his eagerness to confront racism. But their support for him is not simply a reflection of loyalty and political self-interest. It is also the product of distinct cultural traits born of the black experience in the United States, including a broad distrust of prosecutors, an instinctive empathy for the persecuted and a spiritual emphasis on forgiveness and redemption, many African-Americans said.
Mr. Rock, the hot young comedian, goes so far as to describe Mr. Clinton as "the first black President" because, he said, his every move is scrutinized. "He got his hair cut for $200 and people lost their minds," Mr. Rock said in his trademark screech. "It's very simple. Black people are used to being persecuted. Hence, they relate to Clinton."
Alvin F. Poussaint, a black professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, said some minorities were so aware of Mr. Clinton's seeming affinity with black people that "they circulate rumors that he must have had black ancestry." And in a poll last year, the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies found that Mr. Clinton was more popular among blacks than either Mr. Jackson or Gen. Colin L. Powell, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
What's more, many of those interviewed said they not only subscribed to Hillary Rodham Clinton's statement that a "vast right-wing conspiracy" had been directed against her husband but also that they believed the conspirators were motivated by a desire to reverse the gains made by blacks during the Clinton Administration.
"You just can't help but think that some of this is race-based," said Mr. Bond. "In civil rights terms, this guy's a liberal, and there's a part of the body politic that just can't stand this. They have been determined to bring him down from the very first."
Whether that is true, such attitudes provide yet another prism through which to view the enduring racial divide in this country, not unlike the polarized reactions to the not-guilty verdicts in the murder trial of O. J. Simpson in 1995.
From the beginning of Mr. Clinton's national political career, blacks have been among his most ardent supporters. He received an estimated 83 percent of the black vote in the 1992 Presidential election (compared with 39 percent of white votes) and 84 percent in 1996 (compared with 43 percent among whites).
As with white Americans, the percentage of blacks who view Mr. Clinton favorably has declined since the Lewinsky scandal emerged, according to polls. Yet, affection for the President among blacks remains remarkably high.
In a New York Times/CBS News poll taken from Sept. 12 to Sept. 14, 86 percent of black respondents said they approved of the way Mr. Clinton was handling his job and 69 percent said they viewed him favorably, compared with 58 percent and 34 percent, respectively, among whites. Only 10 percent of blacks said he should resign or be impeached, compared with 44 percent of whites.
Fifty-five percent of blacks said Mr. Clinton's enemies, as opposed to the President himself, were most responsible for creating his problems, compared with 32 percent of whites. And while Mr. Starr, the independent counsel, has charged that Mr. Clinton perjured himself repeatedly, 86 percent of blacks said Mr. Clinton could still be trusted to keep his word as President, compared with 44 percent of whites.
"Black people," said the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d, the pastor of Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, "simply are more willing to judge him by his stride than his stumble."
Clearly, a significant factor behind the President's support among blacks has been his record, particularly in the last four years, when blacks have relied on him to fend off a Republican-controlled Congress that they view as hostile to their interests.
Those interviewed this week spoke of the economy's boost for black employment and homeownership. They cited the President's numerous appointments of blacks to significant jobs, a record 13 percent of political appointments, according to the White House.
They also mentioned Mr. Clinton's approach to racial issues, including his "mend it, don't end it" prescription for affirmative action, his creation of an advisory board on race and his trip this year to Africa, where he expressed regret for America's role in slavery.
A number of blacks also said they had rallied around Mr. Clinton because they believed that Mr. Starr's investigation followed the pattern established by the Federal Bureau of Investigation's inquiry into the activities of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in the 1960's, including the surveillance of his sex life, and by the prosecution of black leaders like Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. of Washington.
"Instead of starting with the crime and looking for the man, Kenneth Starr started with the man and looked for the crime," said Mr. Bond. "And we've just experienced this time and again with black leaders."
Black Americans, Mr. Lowery said, know persecution when they see it. "We've drunk from the bitter cup of persecution and repression, and if ever a President has been persecuted William Jefferson Clinton has been persecuted," he added. "Now I'll agree with you that he has cooperated with his persecution by providing bullets for Ken Starr's gun, but he's been persecuted."
As suggested by Mr. Lowery's comments, none of the black Americans interviewed this week found Mr. Clinton faultless. Many were incensed that the President had so foolishly placed his agenda, and theirs, at risk.
"As a matter of logic, blacks might be among those with the most cause for anger about a squandered opportunity," said Christopher F. Edley Jr., a black professor at Harvard Law School and a consultant to Mr. Clinton on race. "But I think the faith in redemption cuts the other way. When you have a whole history of turning to the church for succor in the face of painful circumstances, you have to believe that faith will not only heal your wounds, but also reform the master."
The teachings of black churches about forgiveness and redemption, nourished by the scriptural examples of Jesus and David, came through in interview after interview. Many pointed to this month's decision by the board of the National Baptist Convention U.S.A. to forgive its president, the Rev. Henry J. Lyons, who admitted having an "improper relationship" with a church worker. They also spoke of the willingness of black voters in Washington to re-elect Mayor Barry after he was convicted on drug charges, and of black Alabamians to forgive former Gov. George C. Wallace, after his apologizing for staunchly supporting segregation.
"African-Americans are largely a very religious people, and forgiveness is part of the culture," said Gregory Jackson, a black Detroit businessman who owns three automobile dealerships. "It has been a survival technique. We couldn't survive with all that pent-up hatred, hostility and fear, so we've had to forgive and move on."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Race Gap: Clinton Maintains Black Support"
Despite his latest troubles, Clinton is still significantly more popular with blacks than whites. Chart shows results of New York Times/CBS News polls conducted after the State of the Union Address, the grand jury testimony and the release of the Starr report. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; BLACKS; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL US PRESIDENTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); THEATER (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); FESTIVALS (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); ETHICS (65%); RELIGION (64%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%); MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SACK, KEVIN; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN LEWIS (88%); JESSE JACKSON (57%); CHRIS ROCK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1998



504 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2; Page 87; Column 1; Fashions of The Times Magazine 

LENGTH: 38 words

HEADLINE: Urban Renewal

 BODY:
Essential outerwear offers the warmest feel and the hottest look of the season. Duffles, peacoats and hooded parkas -- in newly resurgent wools and high-tech fabrics -- look best with cargo pants and substantial sweaters.


GRAPHIC: York Adam Derrick.; Circular-rib-knit wool sweater, $195, from Donna Karan Collection. At Barneys New York. Bergdorf Goodman Men.; this page, left: Wool and polyester jacket with detachable hood, $760, and zipper-front wool sweater, $246, from Byblos. At Louis Boston, Boston. Jacket also at Stanley Korshak, Dallas. this page, right: Wool and nylon jacket with four pockets, $175, from Weatherproof Garment Company. At Bloomingdale's, selected stores. Zipper-front hooded sweater of merino wool and nylon, $285, from Richard Edwards. At Bloomingdale's, selected stores. Cotton T-shirt, $11. At the Gap nationwide.; opposite page: Wool peacoat, $730, and cable-knit turtleneck sweater of cashmere and wool, $565, by John Bartlett. At Camouflage, 141 Eighth Avenue. Peacoat also at Barneys New York.; left: Wool twill duffle coat with detachable hood, $1,295. At Turnbull & Asser, 42 West 57th Street. Merino wool turtleneck sweater, $115, from DKNY Men. At Saks Fifth Avenue, selected stores. Wool cargo pants, $295, from Iceberg. At Iceberg, 772 Madison Avenue and Los Angeles. Riccardi, Boston. Rolo, San Francisco. Shoes from J.P. Tod's.; right: Wool melton four-pocket parka with detachable lining, $505, merino wool turtleneck sweater, $195, and full-cut cotton pants, $185. All from Richard Edwards. At Bloomingdale's, selected stores. Shoes from Prada.; Nylon parka with down filling and hood trimmed in fake fur, $325, and ribbed cotton crew-neck sweater, $98, by Tommy Hilfiger. At Macy's East. Ribbed cotton turtleneck by Tommy Hilfiger.; Alpaca wool-blend jacket, $1,600, wool sweater with snaps at neck, $780, and full-cut wool and mohair pants, $490, by Dolce & Gabbana. At Dolce & Gabbana Boutique, 825 Madison Avenue. Jacket and sweater also at Bergdorf Goodman Men. Pants also at Barneys New York. Shoes from Johnston & Murphy.; Wool peacoat, $195, and cotton and wool turtleneck sweater, $85, from Nautica Marine Denim. Peacoat at Marshall Field's. Sweater at Lord & Taylor, nationwide. (Photographs by Dominique Issermann)
Photos: Quilted nylon parka with down filling and zip-out hood, $720, zippered-neck wool sweater with nylon trim and hood, $420, and wool cargo pants, $470. All from Prada. At Barneys New York. Prada, Bal Harbour, Fla., and Beverly Hills, Calif. Boots from Prada.; left: Wool-blend turtleneck sweater, $265, and wool-blend cargo pants, $230. At Iceberg, 772 Madison Avenue. Shoes from Cole-Haan. center: Cashmere and silk sweater, $850. At Ermenegildo Zegna, 743 Fifth Avenue. Cotton twill cargo pants, $62. At Kenneth Cole, selected stores. Shoes from J.P. Tod's.; right: Wool zippered-neck sweater, $225, from Canali. At Bloomingdale's, selected stores. Nylon cargo pants, $237, from Cerruti 1881. For stores, call (888) 299-1881. Shoes from To Boot New

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (59%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (59%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL FABRICS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); 

PERSON: ISSERMANN, DOMINIQUE; FARBER, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



505 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 38; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: September 20, 1998

 BODY:

	 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	5	RAINBOW SIX, by Tom Clancy. (Putnam, $27.95.) John Clark, heading an international task force, investigates terrorist incidents in Switzerland, Germany and Spain.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	2	TELL ME YOUR DREAMS, by Sidney Sheldon. (Morrow, $26.) A series of brutal murders that may involve three young women leads to a bizarre trial and a defense based on startling medical evidence.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	12	I KNOW THIS MUCH IS TRUE, by Wally Lamb. (Regan Books/HarperCollins, $27.50.) A troubled man must care for his schizophrenic identical-twin brother and face the nightmares that have bedeviled their family.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	4	6	THE FIRST EAGLE, by Tony Hillerman. (HarperCollins, $25.) Two Navajo policemen pursue a mysterious killer -- a plague or a person? -- in the Southwest.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	10	2	NO SAFE PLACE, by Richard North Patterson. (Knopf, $25.95.) The perils suffered by a senator running for President in the year 2000.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	5	43	 *MEMOIRS OF A GEISHA, by Arthur Golden. (Knopf, $25.) The life of a young woman growing up in Kyoto who has to reinvent herself after World War II begins.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	6	16	SUMMER SISTERS, by Judy Blume. (Delacorte, $21.95.) Two young women from very different backgrounds come of age together on Martha's Vineyard.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	8	22	MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $20.) After finding a seaborne bottle containing an enigmatic letter, a divorced woman encounters love.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	7	9	POINT OF ORIGIN, by Patricia Cornwell. (Putnam, $25.95.) Dr. Kay Scarpetta battles an old enemy, a serial killer who has escaped and is resuming her crimes.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	9	14	BRIDGET JONES'S DIARY, by Helen Fielding. (Viking, $22.95.) A year in the life of a 30-something single woman in London.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	12	19	A WIDOW FOR ONE YEAR, by John Irving. (Random House, $27.95.) Three looks at the complex emotional life of a writer and single mother.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	11	9	A NIGHT WITHOUT ARMOR, by Jewel Kilcher. (HarperCollins, $15.) The singer-songwriter's poems contemplate love, family, Alaska and life on the road. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13		1	VISION OF THE FUTURE, by Timothy Zahn. (Spectra/ Bantam, $24.95.) Han Solo, Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia of "Star Wars" struggle to prevent a civil war.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	2	7	THE STREET LAWYER, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) A young lawyer comes to terms with himself after discovering his prestigious firm's dirty secret.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15	14	4	MOON MUSIC, by Faye Kellerman. (Morrow, $25.50.) Detective Romulus Poe's investigation of a showgirl's murder uncovers much of Las Vegas's sordid past.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	4	THE DAY DIANA DIED, by Christopher Andersen. (Morrow, $27.) An account of the events surrounding the death of the Princess of Wales.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	48	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Doubleday, $19.95.) A sportswriter tells of his weekly visits to his old college mentor, who was near death's door.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	14	A PIRATE LOOKS AT FIFTY, by Jimmy Buffett. (Random House, $24.95.) While traveling from the Florida Keys to the Amazon, the singer-songwriter reflects on his half-century of life.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	6	2	THE DEATH OF OUTRAGE, by William J. Bennett. (Free Press, $20.) The former Secretary of Education takes a critical view of the Clinton Presidency. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 5	7	105	 *ANGELA'S ASHES, by Frank McCourt. (Scribner, $25.) An Irish-American writer recalls his childhood amid the miseries of Limerick.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 6	5	15	A WALK IN THE WOODS, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $25.) A journalist finds beauty and humor while hiking the Appalachian Trail.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 7	4	87	THE MILLIONAIRE NEXT DOOR, by Thomas J. Stanley and William D. Danko. (Longstreet, $22.) An analysis of the lives of wealthy Americans. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 8	8	92	CONVERSATIONS WITH GOD: Book 1, by Neale Donald Walsch. (Putnam, $19.95.) The author addresses questions of life and love, good and evil, guilt and sin.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 9	14	2	DIANA: Portrait of a Princess, by Jayne Fincher and Judy Wade. (Callaway/Simon & Schuster, $35.) More than 500 photographs of the Princess of Wales.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 10	9	14	A MONK SWIMMING, by Malachy McCourt. (Hyperion, $23.95.) The writer and actor (and brother of Frank McCourt) remembers his life in America and Ireland.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 11	12	20	WE ARE OUR MOTHERS' DAUGHTERS, by Cokie Roberts. (Morrow, $19.95.) The television news anchor's personal reflections on women in politics and business and as mothers, wives, sisters and friends.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 12	11	23	THE GIFTS OF THE JEWS, by Thomas Cahill. (Talese/ Doubleday, $23.50.) What Western civilization owes an ancient nomadic tribe.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 13	16	3	 *THE ROARING 2000s, by Harry S. Dent Jr. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) An economist discusses the prospects for the upcoming millennium. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 14	10	25	CITIZEN SOLDIERS, by Stephen E. Ambrose. (Simon & Schuster, $27.50.) The United States Army from Normandy to the Bulge to Germany's surrender.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 15	13	16	TITAN, by Ron Chernow. (Random House, $30.) The life of John D. Rockefeller Sr.		 	 	 	 	 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	1	19	SUGAR BUSTERS! by H. Leighton Steward et al. (Ballantine, $22.) A diet designed for losing weight, increasing energy and combating disease. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 2	2	24	THE 9 STEPS TO FINANCIAL FREEDOM, by Suze Orman. (Crown, $23.) Practical and spiritual steps for managing your money. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 3	3	235	MEN ARE FROM MARS, WOMEN ARE FROM VENUS, by John Gray. (HarperCollins, $25.) Improving communication and relationships. (+)		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 4	4	7	EAT RIGHT 4 YOUR TYPE, by Peter J. D'Adamo with Catherine Whitney. (Putnam, $22.95.) Diets to suit each of the four blood types. (+)	
 
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Sept. 5, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available from The New York Times on the Web: www.nytimes.com/books.
 
And Bear in Mind
(Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)
 
BLIZZARD OF ONE: Poems, by Mark Strand. (Knopf, $21.) A distinguished contemporary sets the purity of his language against an essentially godless, Wallace Stevensish universe that returns our examination with a blank stare.
 
COLLECTED FICTIONS, by Jorge Luis Borges. (Viking, $40.) The first complete English version of all the fictions of the father of magic realism in a single voice, that of Andrew Hurley, a professor of English at the University of Puerto Rico.
 
DEATH IN SUMMER, by William Trevor. (Viking, $23.95.) The child of a man who has never known love is abducted by a woman who longs for love with something like madness in this novel by an author expert in malformations of the heart.
 
EAST AND WEST: China, Power, and the Future of Asia, by Christopher Patten. (Times Books/ Random House, $25.) In a mixture of memoir and maxim, the last British Governor of Hong Kong defends the connections between democracy and prosperity and condemns the proposition that Asians need authoritarianism.
 
AN EMPIRE WILDERNESS: Travels Into America's Future, by Robert D. Kaplan. (Random House, $27.50.) A journalist traverses the West and foresees an America of corporate fortresses, guarded housing developments, increased auto dependence; he finds it "not so bleak." Thanks.
 
LASSO THE WIND: Away to the New West, by Timothy Egan. (Knopf, $25.) Less an inquiry than a didactic tour, this heartfelt jeremiad by a national correspondent for The Times rages against dam builders, big ranchers, real estaters and the dead-hand legend of the Old West, with its chronicle of macho grabbing by the first comers.
 
THE LONG FALLING, by Keith Ridgway. (Houghton Mifflin, $22.) An Irish writer's first novel, which turns the quite understandable murder of a truly horrible husband into a meditation over whether taking another's life is ever justifiable.
 
THE NURTURE ASSUMPTION: Why Children Turn Out the Way They Do, by Judith Rich Harris. (Free Press, $26.) Current theories of child rearing are given an interesting new perspective with the author's argument that peers -- other children -- are exceedingly powerful agents in determining a child's personality development.
 
RESERVATION ROAD, by John Burnham Schwartz. (Knopf, $24.) A painful, spare novel that explores lives altered and grief transmuted to revenge by the hit-and-run death of a 10-year-old.
 
THE VOYAGE OF THE NARWHAL, by Andrea Barrett. (Norton, $24.95.) A British naturalist turns a search for Franklin's disappeared Arctic expedition of 1845-47 into a voyage of self-discovery in an adventure novel that also serves to show the power of narration to make history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (90%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); UNITED STATES (69%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: RANDOM HOUSE ENTERTAINMENT (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (90%); GERMANY (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); UNITED STATES (69%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (69%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (68%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WOMEN (89%); WRITERS (77%); HOMICIDE (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (73%); WORLD WAR II (64%); SONG WRITING (62%); SINGLE PARENTS (61%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); TERRORISM (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); MURDER (56%); 

PERSON: SIDNEY SHELDON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



506 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 14; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1831 words

HEADLINE: Russia's Cultural Revolution

BYLINE: By By James Cracraft; James Cracraft, a professor of history and university scholar at the University of Illinois, Chicago, is the author of "The Petrine Revolution in Russian Imagery" and editor of "Peter the Great Transforms Russia."

 BODY:

RUSSIA IN THE AGE OF PETER THE GREAT
By Lindsey Hughes.
Illustrated. 602 pp. New Haven:
Yale University Press. $35. 
 As Russians rise from the rubble of the Soviet Union to face an uncertain future, the ghost of Peter the Great, Czar and first Emperor (reigned 1682-1725), rises with them. Though he was never really forgotten during the Soviet era, his memory was carefully controlled in keeping with Marxist doctrine and whatever was the current Communist Party line. But now he seems to be everywhere, his image harnessed to the sale of beer, vodka and cigarettes or to the promotion of banks and real estate. Ships are named after him, along with schools, streets and museums. His tricolor mercantile flag, patterned on contemporary Dutch and British naval flags, is now the Russian national flag; his city, created in the marshy Neva estuary, is again called St. Petersburg; his towering figure, embodied in a colossal new statue 15 stories high, today graces Moscow, the city of his birth, which he later abandoned in favor of his "paradise" by the Baltic. When asked in a recent interview to select a hero from Russian history, Boris Yeltsin named Peter. His choice, by all accounts, enjoys broad popular support.
 In the conclusion to "Russia in the Age of Peter the Great," an admirably comprehensive volume, Lindsey Hughes, a professor of Russian history at the University of London, suggests that Peter's revival in Russian esteem is the flip side of contempt for Mikhail Gorbachev, a "reformer" who, like Peter, "challenged old orthodoxies, broke down walls, changed his titles, acknowledged the need to learn from the West, and traveled there himself, creating a new image for Soviet leaders. But whereas Peter presided over the consolidation and expansion of empire, Gorbachev precipitated its collapse." Today, she adds, "frustrated, disappointed Russians quote Peter's example to criticize the incompetence and feebleness of post-Soviet rulers," Yeltsin certainly included.
There is more to the problem of Peter than that, of course, as Hughes well knows. His grand project -- constructing a modern European empire on the shoulders of the medieval kingdom of Muscovy -- has always excited both admiration and disgust, whether in Russia or abroad. Cosmopolitans, modernizers and power groupies have acclaimed him as a model of enlightened absolutism while others -- call them populists -- have variously deplored his reign and legacy. Russian nationalists have viewed him as the chief enactor of Russia's imperial destiny -- or as a tyrant worse than Ivan the Terrible and the forerunner of Stalin.
The historian Nicholas Riasanovsky of the University of California, Berkeley, has published a large volume titled "The Image of Peter the Great in Russian History and Thought," leaving his former student Xenia Gasiorowska to focus on "The Image of Peter the Great in Russian Fiction." Both books attest to the magnetism the myth of Peter has exerted on Russian writers of all stripes, and to the deep controversy it has aroused.
Among American historians, or historical writers, two may be singled out: Eugene Schuyler, the scholar-diplomat, whose two-volume biography of Peter (1884) was the first extended study in English based on Russian sources, and Robert K. Massie, whose vast "Peter the Great, His Life and World" (1980), heavily indebted to Schuyler, won a Pulitzer Prize. Like all ambitious histories intended for a wide audience, each also tells us about the times in which it was written: in Schuyler's case, the United States of President William McKinley, Theodore Roosevelt and Adm. Alfred Thayer Mahan, aspiring to be a world power; in Massie's, the America of Hollywood and the cold war. Yet however different their perspectives and styles (the one prosaic, diplomatic; the other romantic, even melodramatic), both writers evince great admiration for their subject and his achievements along with a certain reluctance, perhaps as outsiders, to criticize or condemn.
Not so Hughes -- and that is not the least of her big book's strengths. Every last wart on her subject's royal visage is displayed, every known chink in his imperious armor. The man's myth, periodically evoked in its various formulations, is briskly, as well as lengthily, torn to shreds. We are left with a Russia, at Peter's death, that is exhausted, confused and fearful -- the lachrymose praises of an opportunistic new elite notwithstanding.
WE are left with a Peter, for all the incredible color and drama implicit in his history (see Massie), who is complex but crude, neurotic, bad-tempered to the point of cruelty and faintly ridiculous; a figure heroic at times, it may be, generous and kindly on occasion, remarkably bright despite his lack of formal education, but ultimately a lonely man, this in part because he was a reformer steadfastly pursuing his Westernizing agenda within a tradition-bound Muscovite society, in part because of the "uncomfortable traits of his personality." This is a Peter, indeed, for today's rather chastened political tastes. Nor will Russians seeking guidance find much comfort here: "The day when Peter the Great and his reforms cease to be a live issue in Russia,"
Hughes advises, "will be the day when Russia finally resolves the 'cursed question' of its true identity and its relationship with the outside world."
I might, as a fellow petroved (Peter freak), beg to differ with Hughes here and there, but I won't. Too much of what she says seems to me right on target. Her exhaustive research in Russian sources, including archives in Russia in company with leading Russian specialists, is virtually faultless. The attention she pays to Peter's opponents in Russia, to his court, both mock and real, to family and friends, to women -- to people --can only be welcomed, and should be weighed against her somewhat perfunctory if lengthy treatment of war and diplomacy, economics and government. Her detailed depiction of developments in education, the fine arts, book culture and language is also most welcome, and similarly distinguishes her book from its rivals. Sex, music, medicine, dress, manners, hair codes -- seemingly nothing of any consequence is ignored.
On larger matters, Hughes demonstrates that Russia's "international status had grown immeasurably" under Peter, but then asks, in effect, "so what?" Acknowledging that "in a number of respects Russia was a very different place . . . when Peter died from what it had been . . . when he came to the throne," she demands to know: "But did change mean 'progress,' and did progress mean improvement? Was Russia better or worse off as a result of Peter's reforms?" Like a good teacher, she doesn't really tell us what she thinks, but we emerge from her course invigorated, our noses well rubbed in the data, ready to argue with the historians, politicians and ideologues she quotes and eager to advance our own views.
My own construction of much of the evidence adduced by Hughes and others is that what happened of greatest historical consequence in Russia under Peter was a kind of cultural revolution -- a term that Hughes hazards a time or two but then, oddly, drops. From a position on the fringes, at best, of Europe, Russia by Peter's death had become a full member of the European state system and had begun the process of economic integration.
But these political and economic developments, sudden yet long lasting, major not minor, inevitably bore innumerable cultural connotations, as did Peter's vast expansion of Russia's armed forces and his creation of a Russian Navy; and all was done in close accord with prevailing European norms (techniques, practices, values), hitherto largely or wholly unknown in Russia. Add to this the deliberate importation of European learning and dress codes (elite Russians had previously dressed in what Europeans regarded as "Oriental," Turkish-style attire), the creation of St. Petersburg, the foundation of a Russian Academy of Sciences and so forth, and we have on our hands nothing less than a full-scale cultural revolution. How to evaluate it is another question entirely, and one that has produced, in fact, most of the controversy.
We need consider only the verbal dimension of Peter's revolution to see the point clearly. Hughes cites the figures: some 3,500 new words -- German, French, Dutch, English, Italian, Swedish in origin -- entered Russian in Peter's period, roughly one-fourth of them shipping and naval terms, one-fourth administrative, one-fourth military and one-fourth other (commercial, medical, mathematical, architectural, you name it). Many of these borrowings, Hughes concedes (I would guess most, but much work remains to be done in this area), "remain in the vocabulary today." This was a lexical invasion, deliberately promoted, of entirely unprecedented scope in Russia (perhaps anywhere) and is as sure an indicator of a cultural revolution as one could ask for.
THE revolution had its visual component, too, a point that Hughes also documents. One chapter begins: "There are few better places to experience the palpable differences between late Muscovite and Petrine culture than in Russia's national art collections," where, as she leads us through the rooms, the iconic representations of dead saints typical for centuries of Russian visual culture suddenly give way to naturalistic portraiture, "a gallery of royal personages, ladies and gentlemen indistiguishable in dress and hairstyle, if not always in the quality of the painting, from their European counterparts." But she immediately asks "to what extent do the selected images in the Petrine portrait gallery reflect Russian reality?" (what's "real"?), and we are treated to pages of often fascinating information derived from visual sources -- buildings, coins, sculpture and prints as well as paintings (flags, seals, maps, coats of arms and medals might have been added) -- accompanied by commentary suggesting that our guide is either not sure what it all means or is too reticent to tell us.
Hughes's approach to the history of Peter's era is scarcely touched by the turn to social science in recent British-American history writing, still less by the advent of culture studies (the term "discourse" does not appear even once in her hundreds of pages of text and notes). Nor does she provide more than a cursory review of the historical scholarship on Peter, or any systematic source criticism. Still, this is not a book for the casual reader, nor even your average history buff, who might well find its detail overwhelming. This is rather a scholar's compilation, so organized -- with its full index and bibliography, lengthy chronology of events and topical arrangement of chapters and sections -- as to facilitate ready reference, the whole attractively printed with an absolute minimum of gaffes, all as befits the leading British authority on the subject and her distinguished publisher.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RUSSIA IN THE AGE OF PETER THE GREAT (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LITERATURE (70%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (70%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (56%); 

PERSON: CRACRAFT, JAMES; HUGHES, LINDSEY JAMES E HUGHES SR (92%); BORIS YELTSIN (55%); MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



507 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Story of a Hole in the Ground

BYLINE: By Timothy Egan; Timothy Egan, a national correspondent for The Times, is the author, most recently, of "Lasso the Wind: Away to the New West."

 BODY:

HOW THE CANYON
BECAME GRAND
A Short History.
By Stephen J. Pyne.
Illustrated. 199 pp. New York:
Viking. $24.95. 
 The person who does not love Paris, goes the old line, does not love life. America has no City of Light, no cathedrals for the ages. What we have is an awfully big ditch that slices through the Colorado Plateau, a curiosity that only in the last hundred years or so has been tied to the national identity.
As Stephen J. Pyne details in his latest meditation on forces that shape and animate the earth, "How the Canyon Became Grand," it took a long time for American and European intellectual thought to come to terms with that big ditch. Who needs Paris, London or Rome, it was ultimately said, when wind, water and time have conspired to create something that human hands will never duplicate. "I have heard rumors of visitors who were disappointed," J. B. Priestly said of the Grand Canyon. "The same people will be disappointed at the Day of Judgment." Take that, Paris.
Reading about place is not unlike reading about food: at some point you want to get on with the descriptions and try out the recipes. Pyne holds off on practical information. His task in this energetic paean is to show how human interpretations of the canyon have changed over the years. The book is the third volume in Pyne's Grand Canyon Suite, as he calls it. He is a history professor at Arizona State University who to his lasting credit spent 15 seasons working as a firefighter on the canyon's wild North Rim. The writing in this book, which started nearly 25 years ago as a graduate paper, strays on occasion into the desert of academia. But it quickly returns to the canyon's glories and the people who have tried to understand it. In that regard, Pyne's years as a firefighter on the North Rim have served him well.
Europeans now flock to the Grand Canyon and its neighboring national parks in the Southwest. But for centuries, when explorers from the Old World were among the first to gaze into the breach of wonder, they had no use for it. The Spanish, of course, were in search of gold, and not unlike American mining companies tearing up parts of the West today, they seem to have been blinded to the other treasures around them. Members of Francisco Vasquez de Coronado's plunder quest in 1540 spent time on the canyon's rim, and tried to hike to its bottom, but if they were impressed, they said little about it. They did not have a metaphor to apply to what they had seen -- they mentioned only that some of the rock towers were like features in Seville -- and thus the canyon had no meaning. "Great arroyos held no value, not political, not economic, not intellectual, not esthetic," Pyne writes. "That Spanish adventurers and missionaries made it to the canyon rim is one of the marvels of Western history; that they failed to appreciate what they saw, one of its lesser mysteries."
More than 200 years later came another round of Spanish reconnaissance, from two expeditions led by Jesuits who again seemed more like accidental adventurers for the lack of enthusiasm they showed. Pyne notes that at a time when Jefferson "was waxing wondrous about so prosaic a phenomenon as Virginia's Natural Bridge" and the English were swooning over ruins in Italy, the Spanish could not get worked up over a canyon nearly a mile wide and a mile deep with colors yet to be fully reproduced on canvas. By the mid-19th century, Mormon scouts looking to expand Brigham Young's secular empire were skirting the edges of the canyon, but they too had other things on their minds. To the Mormons, the Grand Canyon was a wasteland, Pyne writes.
It took an American age of discovery, a surge of nationalism tied to natural wonders and a pioneering passion for conservation, led in part by landscape artists, for the canyon to become grand, in Pyne's view. The first of the American expeditions, in 1857, was led by Joseph Christmas Ives. He steamed up the Colorado to the western edge of the canyon, then left one of those statements for posterity that should remind anyone on a government exploration payroll to be careful what he says: "It seems intended by nature that the Colorado River, along the greater portion of its lonely and majestic way, shall be forever unvisited and undisturbed." Visitors, and some disturbers, would soon follow. The most famous one-armed Civil War veteran in the history of the West, John Wesley Powell, made his descent of the forbidding rapids of the canyon in 1869. His report captured the country's imagination and led to a still unresolved debate over how the arid lands should be managed.
FOR scientists, the canyon was the centerpiece of studies that greatly advanced natural history. As Pyne points out, the age of the earth increased a millionfold, from 6,000 years to more than 4.6 billion, from the late 18th century to the mid-20th: "The Canyon became to geology what the Louvre was to art, or St. Peter's Square to architecture." The artist Thomas Moran, invited by Powell to accompany him on his second tour of the canyon in 1873, painted "The Chasm of the Colorado," which started an esthetic stampede to the Southwest. And Theodore Roosevelt provided political muscle, setting the canyon aside in 1908 as a national monument under a new law designed to protect American antiquities. Eleven years later it was made a national park. Since then, the Colorado River has been pinched by massive dams on either side of the canyon; the river that flows through the breach is a cold, contained flow from a reservoir that buried many of the sights that entranced Powell -- now named, in one of those uncomfortable twists, Lake Powell -- and it powers an electrical grid that runs a million air conditioners in Las Vegas and Phoenix.
Pyne makes a strong case that the Grand Canyon is as much an American invention as baseball. His essay is a bit wordy in places, perhaps reflecting the fact that it was started by a less confident writer toiling in graduate school long ago. He overlooks -- significantly -- how the canyon was viewed in many American Indian and Anasazi creation myths. But overall, he leaves the impression that much of the rubbernecking people experience while floating the canyon could be done, with equal excitement, in a gallery or library devoted to this singular piece of scenery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HOW THE CANYON BECAME GRAND: A SHORT HISTORY (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (71%); 

STATE: ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: OLD WORLD BAKERY (52%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (71%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HISTORY (78%); LITERATURE (72%); DESERTS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); NATIONAL PARKS (61%); MINES & MINING (50%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY; PYNE, STEPHEN J STEPHEN J PYNE (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



508 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 21; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Unchained

BYLINE: By Jeffrey E. Garten; Jeffrey E. Garten is the dean of the Yale School of Management.

 BODY:

RESCUING PROMETHEUS
By Thomas P. Hughes.
Illustrated. 372 pp. New York:
Pantheon Books. $28.50. 
 Pathbreaking mega-engineering and technology projects have been hallmarks of our history. The Erie Canal, the transcontinental railroad, the Tennessee Valley Authority complex, the Manhattan Project -- these are just a few of the achievements reflecting America's genius for inventing and building. In "Rescuing Prometheus," Thomas P. Hughes, a professor of the history and sociology of science at the University of Pennsylvania, focuses on the cold war years, a particularly exciting era when rivalry with Moscow caused Washington to finance vast technological innovation, when collaboration between the Pentagon and companies like IBM and universities like the Massachusetts Institute of Technology reached its zenith and when the country's finest talent opted for careers in science and engineering rather than banking and marketing. Writing simply and directly, if a bit dryly, Hughes makes an important contribution to an understanding of the history, politics and culture of big science-based projects in that era.
Hughes begins by discussing the early development of air defense systems, which led to the first computers that could assimilate and analyze astronomical amounts of information in order to monitor and control complex military operations. He then turns to the building of the Atlas intercontinental missile, involving over 18,000 technical experts and 200,000 suppliers. From here he moves to the construction of Boston's Central Artery and Tunnel Project, America's largest urban transportation project. And finally he discusses the project called Arpanet (because it was financed by the Pentagon's Advanced Research Projects Agency), which connected networks of computers across the country and became the forerunner of the Internet.
His concern is the challenge of managing highly complex projects rather than the importance of the technological breakthroughs themselves. He assumes that scientific knowledge exists or can be discovered, but maintains that it was the application of far-reaching managerial innovations that constituted America's most impressive technological achievement. In the search for an antimissile defense system, for example, he dwells on the struggle for effective cooperation between the Pentagon and research universities, and the difficult task of integrating frontier thinking from experts in engineering, physics and economics. In the Atlas project he underlines two managerial advances: eliminating the old system of prime contractor in favor of a neutral "project czar," and applying new statistical techniques to quantify and monitor every component of a complex process. And in the story of the Arpanet he points to the evolution of a new organizational ethos that anticipated the nonhierarchical, flexible management teams of Intel and Microsoft.
Hughes is enamored of leaders who can orchestrate complex systems. He emphasizes techniques of "systems engineering" and "operations research" that allow managers to link the many moving parts of a megaproject and to understand so deeply the many interfaces of a project that they can anticipate adjustments throughout the system required by any change in any part. A particularly intriguing chapter deals with the effort, during the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, to adapt management processes developed in the military arena to solve great domestic problems. "The techniques that are going to put a man on the moon," Vice President Hubert Humphrey said, "are going to be exactly the techniques that we are going to need to clean up our cities." Hughes shows how Pentagon-supported research organizations like the Rand Corporation or defense contractors like TRW were enlisted in civil projects, and analyzes why such attempts ultimately failed.
The four case studies move quickly, and Hughes skillfully explains how lessons learned in one were applied to the next. He is at his best in providing texture by describing the backgrounds and personalities of some of the key figures -- like Jay W. Forrester, who led M.I.T.'s team to create a modern computer for missile defense; Gen. Bernard Schriever, the Air Force combat pilot and engineer who was a power behind the Atlas project; and Frederick Salvucci, an engineer and savvy mediator among special political interest groups in Boston. In all four projects he deftly describes both the political setting and the internal politics of the projects. His enthusiasm for the era is contagious.
The book has some shortcomings. There are almost no memorable anecdotes, and the few quotes cited stem from secondary sources. At times Hughes is a bit too breathless in his claims for unprecedented progress. No doubt the development of computers, missiles, the Internet and major transportation systems required new forms of management. But so did the building of the Panama Canal and the construction of the New York subway system -- both in the early part of this century -- and the interstate highway project begun in the Eisenhower era. Hughes hangs a lot of his enthusiasm on dramatic breakthroughs that "systems engineering" brought, but he could have been more convincing if he explained more lucidly what such techniques really entailed, how they worked and especially why they differed so much from the past.
Nevertheless, "Rescuing Prometheus" implicitly contains a powerful message. Throughout our history, great technological advances -- including the radio, the telegraph and the airplane -- have had a strong push from the military. For the last half-century, in particular, it is difficult to think of any major scientific breakthrough in America that cannot be linked to Federal subsidies to universities or to guaranteed Pentagon purchases of technology from private companies. But in recent years Government support for key areas like advanced electronics has been declining. The portion of American students going into hard sciences or engineering is also shrinking, and because of outsized compensation opportunities a growing percentage of graduates are going into private industry and not research universities. Absent a national threat, or a powerful new vision backed by substantial financing from Washington, America's technological base will rest increasingly on the activities of companies whose prime interest is the price of their stock. Anyone reading this book -- with its uplifting description of what this country has achieved over the last few decades -- cannot help worrying about this trend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RESCUING PROMETHEUS (BOOK)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (58%); TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (57%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ENGINEERING (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (87%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); LITERATURE (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); HISTORY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COLD WAR (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (71%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); STATISTICAL METHOD (50%); 

PERSON: GARTEN, JEFFREY E; HUGHES, THOMAS P (PROF) THOMAS P HUGHES (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



509 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 26; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Tornado Alert

BYLINE: By Gary Krist; Gary Krist's most recent book is "Bad Chemistry," a novel.

 BODY:

ALMOST HEAVEN
By Marianne Wiggins.
213 pp. New York:
Crown Publishers. $22. 
 HUMAN relationships, like other complex systems (weather, traffic, the stock market), are notoriously difficult to forecast. All of them involve too many tangled variables to allow anything but rough predictions. A sudden high-pressure zone on the outskirts of a friendship, a surprise pothole on an otherwise smooth road through marriage, a slight dip in a lover's interest rate -- any of these can overturn the entire system, altering its character in unforeseen ways. As a result, a process that is theoretically understandable -- like the course of love -- often appears to us an utter mystery. As with lightning or a market crash, passion develops through hidden chains of causality, so we never know exactly where or when it's going to strike.
Marianne Wiggins has obviously done a lot of thinking about complex systems, in particular about the esoteric workings of desire and their similarity to those of the weather. Her new novel, "Almost Heaven," bristles with meteorological imagery -- from heat waves to hailstorms to torrential rain -- all of it related to the emotional lives of her characters. In fact, it's one of the book's many excesses that her main characters need only feel the first stirrings of distress or yearning for some equivalent atmospheric disturbance to loom suddenly on the horizon. And given the turbulent circumstances in which she's put her characters, the weather they generate is almost always heavy. Readers may want hip boots and a sturdy umbrella.
The novel opens with Holden Garfield, a foreign correspondent for Newsweek magazine, returning to Washington after an eight-year stint in Europe. Though still in his 20's, he suffers from an older man's disease: he's burned out, emotionally exhausted, at the "end of the ride." Having witnessed the horrors of the Balkan war, including the crucifixion of a Muslim baby, he's desperate to purge tragedies from his mind and start over. But he's barely out of customs when he runs into a different kind of tragedy, involving the sister of his closest friend and mentor. Melanie Page, a middle-aged beauty described as "the original soccer mom," has just seen her husband and four children die (killed by a tornado). Now she's hospitalized in Richmond, suffering from an "involuntary differentiating forgetfulness." She can't remember ever having a husband and children, let alone losing them.
In short: She can't remember; he can't forget. Cold front meets warm front. Sounds like a storm brewing.
Sure enough, when Holden turns up at the hospital in Richmond, passion strikes out of nowhere (her beauty "hits him like lightning"). Though the two have never met, they find themselves instantly and mysteriously drawn to each other. Quicker than you can say "occluded air mass," Holden has Melanie checked out of the hospital. With her psychiatrist's tacit (and outrageously unprofessional) approval, the two are heading cross-country in a sleeper van, searching for Melanie's brother. And although Holden recognizes that what this disturbed woman needs is "friendship, help, compassion and support, not a quick feel" or quick sex "in a Kmart parking lot," the two are clawing at each other before they even get west of the Appalachians.
Wiggins, the author of the highly praised novel "John Dollar," is obviously a writer of substantial gifts, but with "Almost Heaven" she's produced a work crippled by ponderousness and melodrama. Such an overwrought story, with its unfortunate echoes of soap opera (the amnesia element doesn't help), would be difficult to make credible and appealing under any circumstances. But Wiggins seems intentionally to make her task harder. For a start, Holden, the central consciousness of the book, is a distinctly unpleasant character -- cynical, nasty to strangers, displaying no real sense of how monstrously irresponsible his actions would be in anything like real life. Far too much of the book consists of his obnoxious internal monologue, which often begins in gratuitous sarcasm before degenerating into self-pity: "What's this statue of George Washington trying to tell him? Think of me when you put on a wig?
"Think of my wooden teeth and remember to floss?
"Think of me before catching pneumonia? . . .
"Think of the memory of me outlasting my lifetime while you're going to die unmissed unremembered and unloved you stupid schmuck."
But Holden is only part of the problem. One may justifiably ask (while we're in rhetorical-question mode) why Wiggins burdens her story line with so many bizarre anomalies. Why include an obtrusively implausible scene in which a man is struck by lightning in an airplane? Why make repeated reference to a minor character's botched breast-enhancement surgery? Why fill the narrative with so many funny names -- Kanga and Pooh, Small Gray, Dr. Alexander Graham (ring a bell)? For that matter, why give the protagonist a moniker so similar to that of J. D. Salinger's Holden Caulfield?
Just as perplexing is the book's over-the-top prose. One would think that a light hand might be advisable for dishing out such superheated material. But Wiggins exercises little restraint. While there are flashes of fine writing (at one moment, contemplating Melanie's blankness, Holden "feels its presence like the chill reach of darkness at the entrance of a vast uncharted cave"), the novel more often succumbs to a kind of aggressive grandiosity. It is full of wild, abstract arias on everything from memory to mourning, often ending with empty sentence fragments like: "From sorrow to love. From forgetfulness into eternity." And the writing about sex frequently crosses the line between poetry and porridge: "In her eyes while they are making love he sees a thing he's never seen before, something fundamentally thrilling, the Look of something that exists beyond Time -- the Look of innocence. Of the eternal. Emptiness. Of everything and nothing." (And, yes, the earth does move at least once.)
It's a pity that in warming to her subject of love's ability to erase the past, Wiggins herself seems to have forgotten some of the laws of good writing. But her novel displays enough intelligence and sophistication to suggest that this heavy-handedness may be a temporary aberration. Granted, writers are as unpredictable as any other complex system, but I'm hoping for clearer skies in her next book.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ALMOST HEAVEN (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (68%); 

COMPANY: NEWSWEEK INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (68%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (94%); WEATHER (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); MARRIAGE (76%); TORNADOES (64%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%); 

PERSON: KRIST, GARY; WIGGINS, MARIANNE HOLDEN GARFIELD (90%); MARIANNE WIGGINS (89%); MELANIE PAGE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



510 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 6; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: The Unbearable Lightness of Being

BYLINE: By James McManus; James McManus's most recent novel is "Going to the Sun." His fifth, "The Winter Casino," will be published next year.

 BODY:

BIRDS OF AMERICA
Stories.
By Lorrie Moore.
291 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $23. 
 The Lorrie Moore sentence, choosing almost at random from her latest collection of stories:
"He was thinking, but she could tell he wasn't good at it."
"We are lucky simply to be alive together; why get differentiating and judgmental about who is here among us?"
"Claudia Osk must die."
"A little light chemo: vincristine and ----"
"I'm going to marry you, whether you like it or not."
"She was in bed, a book propped in her lap -- a biography of a French feminist, which she was reading for the hairdo information."
" 'You know, the chef has AIDS,' said the woman."
Fluid, cracked, mordant, colloquial, Moore's sentences hold, even startle, us as they glide beneath the radar of ideological theories of behavior to evoke the messy, god-awful behavior itself. She is also a master of the tenderly mindbending analogy, a writer in whose hands a blood clot in a child's diaper can become "a tiny mouse heart packed in snow" as convincingly as a woman's emotions can go "well beyond rage into sarcasm and carcinoma."
Like Stuart Dybek and Alice Munro (and, before them, Raymond Carver and Eudora Welty and Hemingway), Moore's natural scale is that of the short story. Rather than setting elaborate plots into motion toward a clear or even a provisional resolution, Moore sketches predicaments that her articulate, erotically frustrated protagonists (usually women caught up in the politics and biology of reproduction) worry about, reflect on, fail to resolve. Enriched by contrapuntal motifs against which the narrators caustically riff, the stories, like Dybek's, have long, plaited movements that unfold through a fugal procedure. Unlike Munro's work, Moore's stories tend not to encompass lifetimes; rather, they achieve a density of weave that allows us to infer a full life from a cross-section, a moment of crisis. In her less effective passages, the characters often feel like mere excuses for their author to crack wise. Her raconteuse's panache and way with a double-entendre give her such a strong scene-writing hand that she sometimes submits to the temptation to overplay it. In one story, a Great Books instructor thinks her monthly departmental meeting is aptly named, "since she did indeed depart mental." Another woman defends her brand of Scotch by saying: "I suppose you're out of sympathy with Dewar's. I suppose you're more of a Do-ee." Her husband responds: "I'm being earnest here. And not in the Hemingway sense, either." Harmless enough in themselves, such puns can quickly accumulate beyond the point of diminishing returns.
When Moore has her timing, however, her wit is a swift, racy vehicle for the warmly comic sensibility that steers her narratives. She can also produce searing poetry. In "Willing," an actress past her prime discovers that her lover has been unfaithful. "Something light and breathing fled through her head, the house of her plastic-wrapped and burned down to tar." In "Beautiful Grade," a fiftyish professor of law is dating a 24-year-old student, much to the chagrin of his friends. He finds himself falling for a married woman closer to his age, only to learn she is having an affair with his best friend. Near suicide, he begins work on an essay: "The young were sent to earth to amuse the old. Why not be amused?" Whether he will be persuaded by his own rhetoric in time to save his life is a question Moore refuses to answer.
"Real Estate," one of the powerhouse trio that concludes the collection, has the heft and ranginess, even the headlong story line, of a compressed novel. Ruth, who is dying of cancer, is no longer able to tolerate her husband's affairs. As part of her program of "nuptial forensics," she fixes up a house, learns to fire a pistol and considers taking a lover, musing all the while on her illness: "The healthy, the feeling well, when they felt that way, couldn't remember feeling any other, couldn't imagine it. They were niftily in their bodies. . . . Whereas the sick could only think of being otherwise. Their hearts, their every other thought, went out to that well person they hated a little but wanted to be. . . . The feeling well were running the show; which was why the world was such a savage place." Ruth doubts she has the audacity to act on these insights, yet when this gentle woman does commit an act of spectacular violence, she achieves no catharsis (though the reader feels great satisfaction). Ruth, in fact, may only have made herself sicker.
In "Terrific Mother," another woman dying of cancer retains her prized sense of humor: " 'The silent killer,' she would say, with a wink." As her disease progresses to the point where she loses even that, the effect is all the more chilling. When she wonders why no one is visiting her, her daughter Adrienne delicately explains that "no one lived that close" -- just before Moore's narrator comments, "No one lived that close to anyone."
Adrienne herself has entered "a puritanical decade, a demographic moment . . . when the best compliment you could get was, 'You would make a terrific mother.' The wolf whistle of the 90's." After accidentally causing the death of her friend's infant, she sinks into near-catatonia, although everyone else, including the dead child's mother, has forgiven her. She is no longer able to want the "normal" things -- marriage to Martin, for example, an affectionate economist who brings her on a monthlong retreat to the Villa Hirschborn (a wickedly accurate send-up of the Rockefeller Foundation's Villa Serbelloni) in the Italian Alps. Haunted by the dead infant, Adrienne and Martin grope toward a decision about conceiving their own child, assisted by a masseuse who explores with them the ecstatic possibilities of the body as well as its capacity for anguish.
"Birds of America," while often lighthearted and steadily hilarious, is a sublimely dark book. Its ironic title may call to mind pretty girls in their summer dresses sashaying up Main Street or Broadway, but, like most bodies of work having to do with mortality, its tendency must be one or the other -- a coronary book ("Lolita," for example, or Beckett's trilogy, "Molloy," "Malone Dies" and "The Unnameable") or a cancer book. Moore's fifth book of fiction, and her most potent work so far, is emphatically the latter.
Its piece de resistance is "People Like That Are the Only People Here," a story that is already famous and likely to become even more so. The "here" of the title is a pediatric oncology ward, which a 1-year-old boy and his parents are forced to inhabit for several weeks. The surreal conversation in which a surgeon informs the mother about her son's malignant tumor is fiction with the impact and persuasiveness of documentary. "I've never heard of a baby having chemo," the mother says, as her son switches the lights off and on. "Baby and Chemo, she thinks: they should never even appear in the same sentence together, let alone the same life."
What follows can be viscerally difficult to read, yet the prose still makes us laugh in dozens of precisely observed moments of raw parental horror. By withholding names -- calling her characters the Baby, the Father, the Radiologist -- and employing a hybrid of first- and third-person narration, Moore mitigates the horror's effect, but not much. Like Beckett, she accepts that nothing is funnier than unhappiness; that the more horrible a scenario, the more humor a few literary artists are able to wring from it. In so doing, she also manages to make "People Like That" the story of a sophisticated New York artist "reduced" to Midwestern ordinariness, of a post-modern writer jolted past her emotional limit. Asked to take notes by her husband because the family will need whatever money a written account will bring, the mother's instinct is to doubt her own writerly gifts (while satirizing Moore's): "I can do -- what can I do? I can do quasi-amusing phone dialogue. I can do succinct descriptions of weather. . . . I do the careful ironies of daydream. I do the marshy ideas upon which intimate life is built. But this? Our baby with cancer? I'm sorry. My stop was two stations back." Moore herself sees the trip through, and us with her, to its blasted, overpowering nonconclusion.
Aug. 2 marked the 10th anniversary of Raymond Carver's death, at the age of 50, from cancer. While there is no evidence to suggest Moore intended this, "People Like That Are the Only People Here" extends the legacy of "A Small, Good Thing," Carver's masterpiece of parental empathy and grief. And "Birds of America," especially its three final stories, will stand by itself as one of our funniest, most telling anatomies of human love and vulnerability.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BIRDS OF AMERICA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LITERATURE (74%); CANCER (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (54%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

PERSON: MCMANUS, JAMES; MOORE, LORRIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



511 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 11; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Conduct Unbecoming

BYLINE: By Richard L. Berke; Richard L. Berke is the national political correspondent of The New York Times.

 BODY:

The Death of Outrage
Bill Clinton and the Assault on American Ideals.
By William J. Bennett.
154 pp. New York:
The Free Press. $20. 
 In the closing days of the 1996 Presidential campaign, Bob Dole would bellow to anyone who would listen, "Where's the outrage?" To Dole's distress that November, few voters were listening -- or even seemed to care -- about his catalogue of Bill Clinton's ethical transgressions. Now, William J. Bennett, the self-appointed values monitor whom Dole considered as his running mate, sets out to answer the rhetorical question of his party's nominee. Thanks to the debacle over Monica S. Lewinsky and to President Clinton's handling of it, Bennett has no shortage of fresh material.
Yet for all his indignation over Clinton's behavior, "The Death of Outrage" offers few fresh insights into what for Republicans (and growing numbers of Democrats) is the most confounding political mystery in years: Why, besides low inflation and low unemployment, have voters seemed unwilling to punish Clinton for his ethical lapses? While he presents himself as more interested in morality than politics, Bennett is a longtime critic of Clinton, and he could not escape writing a political document. Bennett, the editor of the best-selling "Book of Virtues," is, after all, a favorite of religious conservatives who held top appointments in the last two Republican Administrations and is occasionally talked of as having Presidential ambitions of his own. He devotes a chapter to a staunch defense of Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel who is reviled by many Clinton loyalists. His partisanship notwithstanding, Bennett's slim volume is useful in recounting -- and then ridiculing -- the sometimes ludicrous rationales and excuses advanced by Democrats he repeatedly describes as Clinton "apologists." (One vociferous Clinton defender he neglects to chastise is his older brother, Robert, one of the President's lawyers.)
Bennett presents his argument well, especially in making Clinton defenders sound like stooges by hanging them on their own words. Consider these doozies: He quotes Wendy Kaminer, the feminist author, as saying there is something "childlike and potentially dangerous" in expecting a President to have high moral standards. He understandably scolds the Rev. Billy Graham for practically excusing Clinton's infidelity by saying that he is a man for whom "the ladies just go wild."
And Bennett is persuasive in highlighting the "breathtaking hypocrisy" of the leaders of women's groups who came close to undermining Clarence Thomas's nomination to the Supreme Court because of allegations about sexual harassment but have fallen silent about Clinton, presumably because he shares their positions on many issues.
The central point of Bennett -- whose book was finished just before Clinton testified to a grand jury and confessed to the nation that he had lied about his relationship with Lewinsky -- is that the public's willingness to shrug off "among the most corrupt" Administrations "in the history of the republic" has dangerous consequences for the future. This point was also made by Bennett's friend Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut Democrat, in a stern Senate speech earlier this month, one that set off a wave of repositioning in the President's own party.
"In the end," Bennett writes, "the President's apologists are attempting to redefine the standard of acceptable behavior for a President. Instead of upholding a high view of the office and the men who occupy it, they radically lower our expectation."
Yet for all his bewilderment, even alarm, that the public had thus far given Clinton a pass, Bennett may have overestimated the tolerance threshold of Americans. True, public opinion polls consistently showed through the spring and summer that most people did not think Clinton should be impeached. True, the Chief Executive's sexual proclivities have become standard fare on the late-night television monologues. True, this President has compromised the dignity of the Oval Office. But that does not mean the public actually condones Clinton's behavior -- or is not embarrassed by it. And it does not mean that voters will be eager to elect another President who is known for his marital infidelity.
It may be premature to pronounce outrage dead. It could be that Americans are no less disgusted with Bill Clinton than Bill Bennett is. That may be why most polls suggested that voters are so furious at Clinton that they want to put the whole scandal behind them -- the quicker the better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DEATH OF OUTRAGE, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: DOLE (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: DOLE FOOD CO INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); MISCONDUCT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); WOMEN (72%); LITERATURE (70%); WRITERS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); BESTSELLERS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%); GRAND JURY (60%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; BENNETT, WILLIAM J BILL CLINTON (94%); CLARENCE THOMAS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



512 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1906 words

HEADLINE: The Lost Tribe of Natchez

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MOSES; JENNIFER MOSES is author of "Food and Whine," to be published next spring by Simon & Schuster.

 BODY:
MY 8-year-old son, Sam, and I are sitting on either side of Marty Nathanson, in the last row of Temple B'nai Israel, in Natchez, Miss. Since the mid-1970's, the 86-year-old Mr. Nathanson, the unofficial historian of Jewish Natchez, has conducted Friday night services here -- sometimes to a congregation of no more than two or three souls.
It's been years since there was a big enough Jewish community in Natchez to support a rabbi full time -- today, according to the few Jews left, there isn't a single Jewish child living in this jewel-like city on a bluff above the Mississippi River. The Jews once helped oil the machine that was rich, heady and proud Natchez, a world port for the cotton trade. They are all but gone: the living to larger, more dynamic cities, the dead to Jewish Hill on Cemetery Road. 
 But for now, Mr. Nathanson isn't interested in the dead, but in the beautiful neo-classic temple itself, with its soaring ceilings under an exterior dome, stained-glass windows, ark of Italian marble -- within which are century-old Torah scrolls -- and historic pipe organ (built by Henry Pilcher's Sons of Louisville over a century ago). He explains that its roots go back to the establishment of a Jewish burial society, or Hevrah Kedusha, in 1843 -- making B'nai Israel the oldest functioning Jewish congregation in Mississippi, and one of five original charter members of the American Reform movement. Indeed, the cornerstone of the original building was dedicated, in 1870, by Rabbi Isaac Mayer Wise, the founder of American Reform Judaism. Finally, he points to the balcony above our heads.
"That's where the black drivers sat," he says. "That way they could come inside, get out of the heat."
"You mean the Jews had slaves?" Sam asks, incredulous.
"This was after the war between the states," he says, adding that the drivers were paid employees. "But after all, the Jews here were Southerners. What side do you think they fought on?"
Not only did the Jews of Natchez fight on the Confederate side, but a 7-year-old Jewish child, Rosalie Beekman, was the sole Civil War casualty in Natchez proper. She was hit by a Yankee shell fragment in front of her father's store, on the street of gamblers, riverboaters, prostitutes and shop owners known as Natchez-Under-the-Hill. (Today, Natchez-Under-the-Hill houses restaurants and a docked casino boat.)
Like Rosalie's parents, Aaron and Fanny Beekman, who emigrated in 1843 from Forets, Germany, the Jews who came to Natchez in the early 19th century were primarily French and German speakers, from Alsace-Lorraine and Bavaria. They fled mandatory conscription, anti-Jewish laws and economic constrictions to take their chances in a new, hot, fertile and wide-open land. Their story can be heard and seen year-round on bus tours run by the Museum of the Southern Jewish Experience and tour operators.
In Natchez, as elsewhere in the South, Jewish settlers, many of whom got their start as peddlers, thrived primarily as businessmen. Among them were shop owners who extended credit to cash-strapped farmers, middlemen who financed the cotton trade, and traders who took advantage of the river traffic. Within decades, too, they had cast off the strictly Orthodox Judaism of their ancestors, and had become Southern Reform Jews, a people who rejoiced in the new, streamlined Americanized version of the ancient Hebrew prayer ritual.
They allowed family members of both sexes to sit together to worship, and looked the other way when Jewish shopkeepers worked on Saturday. In fact, by the turn of the century, Jews had moved from Natchez-Under-the-Hill to above the cliff, the site of present-day Natchez, where they had 45 businesses -- about a third of all in town -- and continued to flourish until 1908, when the boll weevil devastated the cotton crop.
"They were wholesalers, traders, retailers, suppliers, you name it," Mr. Nathanson tells Sam. "Main Street and Franklin Street were lined with Jewish businesses, and they stayed open on Saturdays until 1 or 2 in the morning, because the black workers didn't come in until 8 or 9 at night. There were black bands, and hot tamale sellers. I tell you, it was a swinging place. And the Jews were at the center of everything."
Though the city is host to two annual pilgrimages, most tourists are largely unaware of the city's Jewish past, seeking instead a whiff of the glories of its planter society: visiting the antebellum mansions and plantations that ring the city, seeing the Confederate pageant, and in spring, strolling through gardens ablaze with azaleas, crepe myrtle, camellias, phlox and iris. But if you scratch the surface -- or visit Temple B'nai Israel's basement, which doubles as a branch of the Museum of the Southern Jewish Experience, and has exhibits and videos about the history of Jewish Natchez -- you can't go a block without hearing the echoes and seeing the shadows of the city's Jews. They're all but gone, but the buildings they built and inhabited remain.
Which is one reason why the first stop Sam and I make after saying goodbye to Mr. Nathanson is the former home of the Simon Moses family, Glen Auburn, only a few steps from the temple on South Commerce Street. The Moses family owned, at various times, D. Moses & Sons ("Cheap Cash Store"), several cotton-buying houses and the streetcar line.
Built in 1875, Glen Auburn is the home of Ann and Randy Tillman and their six children, descendants of Joseph and Ricka Tillman (and their son, Casius Tillman, once president of the Cotton and Merchants Exchange). Though this branch of the Tillman family is Catholic, their Jewish antecedents seem very much part and parcel of the air they breathe. (You can arrange a visit through Temple B'nai Israel or the Historic Natchez Foundation; the family asks that a donation be made to the temple.)
The exterior of the three-story house is French Second Empire, but the large, airy, romantic interior is what Mrs. Tillman calls Old Natchez. The original 14-foot hand-painted ceilings are being restored, and the two-foot-thick brick walls still keep the house cool -- as does the latticework that connects the main house to the servants' wing, which now houses children's bedrooms.
As we leave Glen Auburn, I try to imagine what life must have been like for the descendants of those first French- and German-speaking Jews. What was it like to wake up every morning to a view of the Mississippi River, to walk on a Main Street filled with familiar faces, to alight at temple from a horse-drawn carriage, and to try sleeping through a blazingly hot and muggy August night? As if in answer to my thoughts, a horse-drawn carriage appears around the bend with a clip-clop, clip-clop sound.
Because Natchez was largely untouched by Union shelling, and later ignored by urban development, the visible city is a kind of living time warp -- a time warp, however, that caters to late-20th-century visitors. And among Natchez's many small inns are those that were once the homes of prosperous Jews.
A block from Glen Auburn, in fact, is the Bailey House Bed and Breakfast, originally the private home of the Jacobs family, whose businesses included dry goods, liquors, cotton and the A. Jacobs & Sons Banking Company. Built at the turn of the century, the Bailey House (named after a more recent owner) has recently been restored to its Colonial Revival style. The columned house has broad verandas, a corner tower, and five bedrooms for paying guests.
Or you might prefer to walk the seven or eight blocks to the antique-studded Burn Mansion (circa 1836), another small inn, once the home of Saul Laub, a Jewish businessman who was Mayor of Natchez in the early 1930's. There, you can sit outside on wrought-iron chairs and admire the wildly blooming back garden while you sip on the best mint julep I've ever tasted. And there are numerous other B & B's (like Highpoint, once the home of the Friedler family, and Clifton Heights, which belonged to the Lehmann family) where mezuzas once hung, and candles were lighted on Friday nights in the spacious dining rooms.
At noon, Sam and I find ourselves strolling along the remains of Clifton Avenue, a once-magnificent street sitting at the very top of a cliff above the river. Most of Clifton Avenue, which over the years had begun to erode off the cliff, has been shored up and turned into a walking path. Sam is staring at the silvery-brown expanse of river and the miles and miles of green on the distant shore, thinking (he tells me) about Huck Finn; I'm gazing at the dilapidated Queen Anne and Colonial Revival mansions that look out over the river, wondering whether or not it would be possible to buy one of them, perhaps as a weekend place. There are turrets and towers, wide verandas and wild rosebushes, and the lonely sounds of birds and wind.
It's spooky here -- too quiet. But at the turn of the century, this was the Jewish neighborhood, the land acquired in 1888 Isaac Lownburg and Henry Frank, partners and merchants. Indeed, the three decades preceding the purchase had seen a Jewish mercantile explosion -- in 1858, there were 12 Jewish businesses in town; by 1877, there were 28, making up more than half the dry goods and cotton-buying operations in this town, where cotton was still king and Jews and gentiles alike shared the pleasures of belonging to the exclusive, all-male Prentiss Club on the corner of Pearl and Jefferson Streets (now home to the Pearl Street Cellar, a night spot).
"But Mom," says Sam, still mystified by the paradoxes of history, "How could they fight on the Southern side? Didn't they know that slavery is wrong? I mean, hadn't they read the Book of Exodus?"
The Jews who came to Natchez broke bread from the get-go with the planter class, I explained. Their fortunes rose and fell together, their children and children's children intermarried, they celebrated the same victories and died from the same diseases.
And they lie up on Jewish Hill, surrounded by hundreds of Christian graves. The entire cemetery is beautifully maintained by the city. There are whole families -- wiped out by yellow fever, in some cases -- under distinctively Jewish headstones: the clasped hands that signify marriage, the outstretched hands of the kohanim (Jews of priestly descent).
They are buried beneath Hebrew lettering under a blue dome of Southern sky on this peaceful, lovely hill above Big Muddy. Here are names and more names: Frank, Friedler, Goldberg, Hart, Dreyfus, Lemle, Geisenberger, Weiss, Samuels, Wise. Husbands and wives, brothers and sisters, the generations lying side by side.
And here, too, is Mena, wife of Aaron Roos. Her headstone speaks eloquently of her journey: For though she was born in Klingen, Bavaria, in the Hebrew month of Kislev in the Jewish year 5586 (or 1826), she died in Natchez on Nov. 3, 1903.
 
If you go
To arrange a tour of Jewish Natchez, contact The Museum of the Southern Jewish Experience, Post Office Box 16528, Jackson, Miss. 39236; (601) 362-6357. The museum itself is in Utica, Miss., about 65 miles northeast of Natchez.
The museum can arrange appointments to see the exhibits in its satellite in the basement of Temple B'nai Israel (suggested donation $4), or call the temple at (601) 445-5407.
Information is also available from Historic Natchez Foundation, 108 South Commerce Street, Natchez, Miss. 39120; (601) 442-2500.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Grave of Rosalie Beekman, a child killed in the Civil War. (Troy Glasgow/Black Star, for The New York Times)(pg. 20); Glen Auburn, on South Commerce Street, was the home of Simon Moses, a Jewish businesssman. The historic pipe organ in Temple B'nai Israel. Marty Nathanson at the temple. (Photographs by Troy Glasgow/Black Star, for The New York Times, and Laura Skelding (organ))(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (50%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: JEWISH NATCHEZ (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: JEWISH NATCHEZ (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NATCHEZ (MISS); MISSISSIPPI; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (50%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; JEWS JEWS & JUDAISM (93%); RELIGION (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); HISTORY (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (72%); CASINOS (67%); RESTAURANTS (60%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (53%); 

PERSON: MOSES, JENNIFER MARTY NATHANSON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



513 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 16; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Charting the Essence of Omnipresent Fear

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ZIMMER

 BODY:
THERE'S nothing subtle about the current show at Erector Square Gallery in New Haven, and that's the way it has to be. The subject is fear, and it turns out to be rather creepy fun, high in imagination. That's why it's properly a show rather than an exhibition, which sounds more staid; it even contains works that might pass for theater sets.
The organizer, or impresario, behind "Inspired Fear" is Eileen Doktorski, who is in the show herself in a rather commanding way. The more expansive of her two contributions might be called either an installation or a relief sculpture. It stays close to a gallery wall and takes up most of it. "Overpowered" is a multitude of projecting hands made of hydrocal, a lightweight plaster. 
 Most of them are clenched fists, but some hold an object like a gun or a plate. The show comes with a fully illustrated catalogue, and the artists divulge what inspired them to make a work about fear or its ramifications. Ms. Doktorski says she was spurred to make the piece when a bullet was shot through a window of her home while she was there.
Another work on a grand scale is "The Nutcracker Suite," an installation by Annee Spileos-Scott. Occupying a large portion of the gallery's interior, it's an impenetrable square with edges that are defined by straight-backed wooden chairs with lamps clamped on their backs that emit harsh light. The work is beyond evoking benign group therapy, and can't help but refer to humankind's alarming history of rough interrogations. There is a surfeit of printed words: the seat of each chair is filled with the details of varied case histories contributed by six women who then diagnosed themselves. The results are prominently displayed on clipboards in quick phrases, more or less understandable, such as "drug addict," "oral hysteric" or "p.i.m.: paternalistic induced madness."
Guns rear their heads often and, for once, creatively. Dorothy Powers's pair of drawings, one a white weapon on a black ground, and the other the reverse. The drawings are silhouettes that outline the fearsome details of guns, especially the triggers. They are prime examples of how abstract painting at the present time relies on content to be powerful.
Richard Klein's sculptures also make an impact by their terseness. "Drunken Father," an actual rifle butt juxtaposed with a gallon jug turned upside down, was based on a wire-service account of a despondent, recently unemployed man who killed himself after holding his wife and two children hostage.
It's possible to treat guns lightly, but with serious intent. Peggy Diggs creates an audaciously absurd wall tableau displaying an arsenal of varied weapons, each covered with a custom-made quilted cozy. Ms. Diggs writes that she is referring to domestic violence, but in addition to symbolizing nurturing, the cozies may be muzzles or might serve to keep the weapons warm.
Another quick take is "Trap," by David C. Terry, who has placed a hand gun, painted and carved with depressions to resemble Swiss cheese, next to an outsize spring of a mousetrap. This is one of the blander statements in the show. It may be frightening that owning a gun can get one into an inextricable mess, but it's also a pretty toothless truism.
The show isn't without its murky or unclear moments, which viewers may not know how to connect with fear, because they don't have an immediate reaction to them. This is the case with Lisa Hess's paintings featuring children at play. In one, a girl looks as if she's tied to a chair while a boy stands behind her.
There may be ambiguity between what's fearsome and what's innocent play, but these sentiments can't be imported into a painting. They have to reside there and it takes an especially deft painter to render this equivocation convincingly. Sharon Kurland illustrates the universal pressures and downright fears associated with being a child in a small book that can get lost among the more clamorous art.
There's some fear of the good old horror movie kind. Noe Hernandez was born in Mexico, and though he now lives in New Brunswick, N.J., he retains some darker Aztec roots. His paintings refer to the pre-Columbian era: his characters wear masks that resemble the faces of ancient sculpture. The works are mixed-media, not only paintings; in "Agony Held Up With Threads," real rope binds the wrists of the man who personifies agony to the painting's frame. Ropes also stretch to the frame from a gaping wound where the man's heart should be.
Jenny Krasner calls her assemblage sculpture "The Pieta," but it could be a body snatcher. It's a white plaster form with a small animal-like form dandling from its wrist. Its skinny legs form the hands of a clock that is delineated by a circle of 12 stones, so it seems to be some alternative to the grim reaper.
Few local artists have charted death more than Robert Zott. Mr. Zott photographs tombstones, and it must make his day when a name carved on one is either patently absurd, or if he can pair it drolly with another name. One photograph has "cocaine" on the grave marker, but Mr. Zott includes a fetching twosome, "Holmes" and Watson," who could strike fear in the hearts of London miscreants.
"Inspired Fear" remains at the Erector Square Gallery in New Haven through September.

GRAPHIC: Photos: From "Inspired Fear" at the Erector Square Gallery in New Haven through September. Clockwise, from above: "The Nutcracker Suite"by Annee Spileos-Scott, detail from "Overpowered" by Eileen Doktorski and "Drunken Father" by Richard Klein.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); PAINTING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); SHOOTINGS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); 

PERSON: PEGGY DIGGS (62%); EILEEN DOKTORSKI (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



514 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester;
Armonk Shopping Center's Developer Avoids Chains

BYLINE: By MARY McALEER VIZARD

DATELINE: ARMONK

 BODY:
A THIRD-GENERATION Westchester development company now building a 20,050-square-foot shopping center near the downtown of this affluent hamlet has resisted the overtures of national chain stores interested in leasing space in favor of an exclusively local approach.
According to Jeffrey Garson, a principal with Garson Brothers Development L.L.C., based in Yonkers, Rite Aid and CVS pharmacies expressed interest in leasing 12,000 and 10,000 square feet, respectively. "We turned them down," Mr. Garson said. Referring to one of the large White Plains malls, he added, "We wanted a more boutique-type store, one you can't find in a Galleria." 
 There will be a pharmacy at the new Armonk Town Center on Route 128, Armonk's main street, but it will be a regional one. "The Kadish Pharmacy already has a store in North White Plains, but wanted a bigger one in Armonk," Mr. Garson said. "We wanted a store that wouldn't be changing pharmacists every few months, with a pharmacist who will know his customers by name."
The center, which is scheduled to open around Thanksgiving Day, is now about 80 percent leased by stores that are either new and locally owned or part of a regional chain. In addition to the pharmacy, there will be a European gift shop, a kosher deli, a pizza/pasta restaurant, an exercise salon, a tailor/cobbler/dry cleaner, a toy store and a beauty salon/spa.
"If we had said yes to one chain, they're like a posse -- they all travel together," Mr. Garson said. "It would be like getting in a plane and going to a shopping center anywhere in the country. You wouldn't know where you were."
When Garson Brothers purchased the two-acre parcel, only a few hundred feet from the center of Armonk's downtown, "it was the last commercially zoned property left in Armonk," Mr. Garson said. His company prevailed in a bidding war, paying $1.1 million for the property, which was previously owned by a soil-mixing operation.
"Quite frankly, leasing to chains is easier," Mr. Garson said. "There's less financial risk. By leasing to locals, we take on the risk, but I'd rather do that and have the kind of center we want."
Leasing exclusively to local businesses represents "the back side of the curve in downtown development," according to Doyle Hyett, a principal with HyettPalma, a national downtown consulting firm based in Alexandria, Va.
"It's not usually the developer's desire, as it appears to be in this case," Mr. Hyett said. "More frequently, it's the local officials who are taking a more active role in guiding the destiny of their downtowns."
ARMONK is an unusual Westchester downtown, in that it's patronized by the employees of several large corporations that surround it, including I.B.M and Swiss Re, the Swiss reinsurance firm. Yet it has been able to retain its countrified look and a predominance of local stores.
"It has mostly local and regional stores," said Jack Lombardi, Supervisor of the Town of North Castle, which governs Armonk. "They're the kind of stores you use for one-day needs. The downtown's appearance has been preserved by regulations about signage, building heights, etc. And fast-food and take-out establishments are prohibited."
As it is now, Mr. Lombardi thinks the downtown has done a good job of providing enough conveniences to meet the needs of its residents. If they have more extensive needs, they can drive 10 minutes to the Village of Mount Kisco, Mr. Lombardi said, which has a much larger commercial area, with a combination of local shops and chain stores.
That's the more dominant trend in downtowns across the country, according to Mr. Hyett. "It's only in recent years that the chain stores have been interested in downtowns," he explained. "And that's because they're doing well. The ones that work best manage to retain their village atmosphere and let some chain stores in to cater to specific needs."
One successful example of that strategy is the Village of Bronxville, one of Westchester's liveliest downtowns. It has two national drug chains, CVS and Value Drugs; a Starbucks and the Gap, which is scheduled soon, according to Mayor Nancy Hand. "Value Drugs moved into a space formerly occupied by Woolworth's, which had been in the village for 50 years," the Mayor explained. "So we've always been anchored by a chain.
But the majority of Bronxville's businesses are locally operated "and offer unique merchandise you won't find in a mall," Mayor Hand added. "I think the mix of the chains and small shops is the secret to our success."
From a local retailer's standpoint, the inclusion of chains can be desirable because they draw traffic. "It's an advantage, I won't lie to you," said Mark Mazzotta, owner of Amore Pizza & Pasta, which will move into the Armonk Town Center. But he also sees an advantage in having all local stores. "I think it's a good retail mix and I like the fact that they're all individual and unique stores," Mr. Mazzotta said. "Because we think we're unique."
Mr. Mazzotta will also maintain his current restaurant in Scarsdale, which has a more diverse downtown. "We will serve a different niche in Armonk," Mr. Mazzotta said. "But the same upscale market."
The hamlet of Armonk has some of the highest income demographics in Westchester, with a $59,000 per capita income, according to Mr. Lombardi. "They're very well-heeled people there in million-dollar homes," he said. "Many of them are stockbrokers, lawyers and investment bankers."
Chuck Anderson, owner of La Denelliere, a gift and interior design store in Scarsdale, plans to open another at the new center in Armonk. "We sell chandeliers, hand-painted furniture and humidors that sell from $1,200 to $4,000."
He said he was optimistic that "with two food establishments, the center will attract a good crowd at lunchtime and we'll benefit from that."
"We also expect the gym and spa will attract a good number of female customers to our store," Mr. Anderson added.
THE exercise gym, called Spin, will offer an intense bicycle workout. "It will be the first in the county," said its owner, Michelle Racine. "The only other one nearby is in Greenwich, and to use that gym you need a two month reservation. So I think we'll be getting the overflow from there as well as Westchester residents."
For the center's appearance, Mr. Garson was looking for a countrified look with a peaked roof, fish-scale shingles and two cupolas, topped by weathervanes handmade in Cape Cod.
"We didn't want it to look brand new" said John Currie, of Currie Associates Architects, of Greenwich, Conn., which is designing the project. "It also needs to link to the downtown, which it is separated from by a few pieces of property."
In addition, there will be dense landscaping, especially at the rear of the center, which abuts a residential area. "The residents wanted to see as little of us as possible," Mr. Currie said. "We'll be using evergreens and other indigenous trees, designed to keep the deer away."
Garson Brothers started out building housing, primarily in Manhattan. Its first commercial development was a 12,200-square-foot medical office building on Central Park Avenue in Yonkers. It then built the Garson Plaza shopping center, with all local or regional stores, near Yonkers Raceway.
"The kosher deli from that center is now opening a second store with us in Armonk," Mr. Garson said. "It's gratifying to start out with small businesses and watch them grow and expand. For now, it's the way we want to continue to do business."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeff, left, and Stafford Garson, partners in Garson Brothers, at nearly completed Armonk shopping center. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ARMONK SHOPPING CENTER (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (50%); VIRGINIA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RETAILERS (93%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); PHARMACISTS (76%); CITIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (72%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (72%); THANKSGIVING (51%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



515 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Spec Construction Ending Route 1 Corridor Lull

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
AN eight-year lull in speculative office construction is ending on the Princeton Route 1 corridor, where three projects are about to get under way without leases from a single tenant in place.
A fourth project, with a commitment from a tenant for a sizable amount of space, is also moving forward. 
 If realized, the projects will within a year bring a total of 723,000 square feet of space onto the corridor, a 20-mile stretch between New Brunswick and Trenton. With vacancy rates low and rents high enough to justify new construction, developers say it is a good time to build, despite the stock market's volatility in recent weeks. Three of the projects are in West Windsor and one is in Plainsboro.
"New construction will and should occur to meet the market demand," said Aubrey W. Haines, a vice president at GMH Realty, a commercial brokerage firm in Lawrenceville. "Otherwise business expansion in the Princeton area could be choked off because of excessive rental rates or insufficient space, forcing an exodus to other markets in the region."
The demand is coming mostly from local companies -- including insurance, pharmaceutical and technology concerns -- seeking to expand, as well as companies wanting to relocate to the area.
Speculative construction started to sprout in the 11-county northern New Jersey office market in 1996 and is now gaining momentum. In the last two years 667,590 square feet of speculative space in five buildings have been completed and most of that space has since been leased. In addition to the Route 1 corridor speculative projects, 3.4 million more square feet of such space are under development throughout the state, according to Grubb & Ellis, the national commercial brokerage.
The activity took a long time to reach the Route 1 corridor, where overbuilding in the mid-80's forced companies to shed space and drove the vacancy rate to 26.7 percent in 1988. And recession retrenchment kept the rate high.
Though the last new construction there was completed in 1990, it still took until 1996 to absorb the excess space.
The corridor's office market comprises 8 million square feet, of which 514,914 was available as of the second quarter of this year, according to Grubb & Ellis. The number doubles to 16 million square feet when owner-occupied space, such as that housing area corporate stalwarts such as Bristol-Meyers Squibb and Merrill Lynch & Company, is counted.
The vacancy rate in the corridor for space occupied by tenants rather than owners was 6.4 percent as of the second quarter, down from 8 percent a year earlier; the rate for Class A space was 3.9 percent. At the same time overall asking rents have risen to $21.44 from $20.28 a square foot and asking rents for prime space increased to $25.16 from $23.38, Grubb & Ellis reported.
J. Douglas Petrozzini, a senior vice president at the brokerage's Edison office, said tenants looking for 20,000 square feet of space or more were having a difficult time finding it along the corridor, which continues to be bolstered by its central location, proximity to Princeton University and access to labor. Over the last year, he added, some 700,000 square feet of space was absorbed, "So putting another half million square feet or so on the market should not affect that momentum," Mr. Petrozzini said.
And David H. Knights, director of marketing and leasing for the 2,200-acre Princeton Forrestal Center straddling South Brunswick and Plainsboro, noted that "at least three tenants known to be shopping for space have requirements equaling a total of 160,000 square feet." The center is owned by Princeton University.
The only large block of Class A space available is the 332,767-square-foot building nearing completion by Dow Jones on its 207-acre campus at Route 1 and Ridge Road in South Brunswick. Originally intended for one of its divisions -- Dow Jones Markets, which has been sold, it is being marketed to tenants, said James P. Quinn, a senior director at the Manhattan office of Cushman & Wakefield, the national brokerage, which is handling the leasing.
Brokers agree that, given the tight market, that space as well as the four announced projects will be leased before the new buildings are completed. And if the amount of new construction does not increase significantly beyond the four buildings about to rise, they say, the market will easily absorb the space.
"The first two or three projects should hit home runs," said Mr. Petrozzini of Grubb & Ellis.
THE 3 percent vacancy rate at Princeton Forrestal Center, where 5.7 million square feet out of a projected 8.5 million square feet have been built, has encouraged the start of a 168,000-square-foot building there, which has a tenant for 60,000 square feet.
The nearly $30 million project, for which ground is to be broken Sept. 29, is to rise over the next year on 12.8 acres along College Road in Plainsboro. It is being developed by Aegis Property Group of Philadelphia with Berwind Property Group, a subsidiary of the Berwind Corporation, a real estate investment trust, also of Philadelphia, as its financial partner.
Given the low vacancy rate in the center and the corridor "it made great sense to move forward," said James Kinzig, a partner at Aegis. He added, however, that the partners would not have done so without a tenant "because speculative development is tougher to finance and presents more risk."
Still, that is a risk the other developers are willing to take. Ground was broken on Sept. 3 for the Commons at Princeton, a two-building complex with 300,000 square feet of space on 25 acres off Route 1 North and Alexander Road in West Windsor.
The more than $50 million project is being developed by SJP Properties of Parsippany in partnership with Prudential Insurance Company of America in Newark. Fleet Bank is providing a $43 million construction loan; the rest of the financing is coming from the partners' own equity.
The project marks the initial foray into the Princeton market for SJP Properties, which is no stranger to speculative construction. In the last two years the company has built or is building some 1.5 million square feet of speculative space, primarily in Morris and Somerset counties.
"We react to timing," said Steven J. Pozycki, SJP's president. "And in a market like Princeton that does not have a huge absorption rate you don't want to be last when the activity is good."
Mr. Pozycki said his company was also drawn to the site by its accessibility to the four-way interchange at Alexander Road as well as to the Princeton Junction train station with service to New York and Philadelphia. And it is adjacent to the 348-room Hyatt Regency Hotel, to which the new office complex will be connected by a footbridge.
The complex will comprise a 185,000-square-foot five-story building and a second structure with 115,000 square feet on three levels. There will be an enclosed elliptical courtyard between the two buildings and parking for 950 cars.
Completion is set for next July. Rents have not been set, but they will be competitive, said Mr. Pozycki.
At Alexander Road, a half mile east of the SJP project, Trammell Crow, based in Dallas with offices in Chatham and Cherry Hill, is to start construction within a month on a $33-million, 140,000-square-foot building. It is being financed by the Multi-Employer Property Trust, a construction union pension fund, said Mr. Haines of GHM Realty, the leasing agent for the project. Completion is expected by next July, he said, noting that asking rents are to be $27.50 a square foot.
At Carnegie Center, ground was broken on Sept. 9 for a 115,000-square-foot three-story building by Boston Properties, a real estate investment trust, which in June acquired the 560-acre business park that sits on both sides of Route 1 in West Windsor.
"There was no absorption in the park in the first half of 1998 because there was no available space," said Roger M. Steinhardt, director of marketing and leasing for Boston Properties Carnegie Center. "So we are building to add to our inventory to accommodate tenants in the park that want to expand and those outside the park that are unable to find space." At present, there are 1.9 million square feet of offices at the mixed-use park, where an additional 2.2 million square feet could ultimately be built.
The new building is a conservative response to the market demand, Mr. Steinhardt said. The $18-million project is to be completed by next August, he added, noting that rents would be in the upper $20-a-square-foot range.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Spec buildings to rise on Route 1 corridor: Above, Commons at Princeton; left, Carnegie Center structure, both in West Windsor. (The Hillier Group)
 
Map of Central New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (53%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (53%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (84%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (55%); GRUBB & ELLIS CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); RELOCATIONS (78%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); 

PERSON: J DOUGLAS PETROZZINI (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



516 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 8; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Reserved Celebration of a Century of Golf

BYLINE: By JACK CAVANAUGH

 BODY:
SITTING in a rocking chair on what used to be the men's porch at the New Haven Country Club, Joe Goldshinsky recalled the Rolls-Royces, Packards and LaSalles that once took up much of the space in the club's parking lot while their well-to-do owners played golf and cards and had lunch in the men's grill.
"Things have changed a lot here," said Mr. Goldshinsky, who has observed happenings at the New Haven Country Club (actually in Hamden) since 1926 when he started as a caddie; eventually he rose to become the head golf professional. "For one thing, there were very few women members, and hardly any of them played golf. And this porch was a sacred area, strictly for the men." 
 Sacrosanct, too, was the men's grill -- until 1991.
The 100-year-old New Haven Country Club, like many other clubs in the country, has become more inclusive and less formal over the last decade or so while. The current membership is more egalitarian than it was during, say, its first 50 years, when members included William Howard Taft, who after serving as the country's 27th president, taught law at Yale, his alma mater. Another member and Yale alumnus was Walter Camp, the father of American football.
In his book about the club's history, Rick Odermatt, formerly a columnist with The New Haven Register, recounts how Ray Brock, later a president of the club, sometimes caddied for Mr. Taft and would place the golf ball on the tee so that the former President (who weighed more than 300 pounds) would not have to bend down. Mr. Camp became renowned at the club for his fast play.
Mr. Goldshinksy recollected that quite a few members were from Yale, including A. Whitney Griswold, president of the university from 1950 to 1983. "But," he said, "a lot more were big executives from companies like Sargent, Winchester, Southern New England Telephone and American Steel and Wire, along with a lot of professional men."
None, perhaps, was more dedicated to the game of golf than a New Haven lawyer named F.L. Perry. "Mr. Perry had a hard time walking, and had to use two canes to get around," Mr. Goldshinsky recalled. "This was in the 1930's, before golf carts. But he still was determined to play so he got a rickshaw -- I have no idea where, but he got one -- and, after hitting the ball, would sit in the rickshaw and be pulled around by his caddie, Red Lawson. When Mr. Perry finished, he would give Red the 75-cent caddie fee and another $3 for pulling the rickshaw."
It was as caddies that many club members learned the fundamentals of golf. "I caddied at the club from the time I was 13 through the age of 17," said the current club president, Walter Nester. "It was a great way to learn about the game and about the golf course."
The course, ranked as one of the most challenging in the state, is a source of pride for the club's 500 or so members. Redesigned in 1921 by Willie Park Jr., a two-time winner of the British Open, the course is built on 110 acres off Whitney Avenue in Hamden and is best known for its large, undulating greens, which put a premium on accurate putting.
Laid out over what had been virtually treeless farmland, the course now includes hundreds of trees, most of which were planted in the mid-1920's, that separate the smooth fairways.
"The membership was older when I joined in 1952," said Ericsson (Pete) Broadbent, a former club president. "And there were a lot of rich guys. But now we have a lot more young people and many more women playing."
One of them is Anita Sullivan Fivek, who has won the women's championship 11 times since 1973 and whose father, Veggo Larsen, captured five men's titles. "Not only do we have more women playing now," Mrs. Fivek said, "but a lot of them are working women." Another former club champion, Leslie Shannon, played on United States Curtis Cup teams (the equivalent of the Ryder Cup) in the 1980's and early 1990's and was the team's captain in 1990.
Though the club no longer has a heavy Yale presence -- mainly because of the Yale Golf Course, which was built in the 1920's -- it owes its origin in large part to a former Yale professor, Theodore S. Woolsey.
Professor Woolsey had been one of the organizers of the nine-hole New Haven Golf Club, built in 1895 between Prospect Street and Winchester Avenue, where Albertus Magnus College is now situated.
But, along with many other members of New Haven's first golf club, he grew disenchanted when the golf course became overrun with Yale students who had taken a liking to the newly imported game.
So it was that Professor Woolsey organized the New Haven Country Club in 1898 and leased farmland along Lake Whitney in Hamden for the construction of a golf course. A major proviso, set down by the organizers, was that the course would be off limits to Yale students, except as occasional guests.
Club members, who numbered 150 at the start, eventually voted to buy the property -- the course had been expanded to 18 holes in 1900 -- for $80,000 in 1915. Two years earlier, a Spanish-style red tile roof had been built in sections atop the stone clubhouse, giving it a striking distinction that has persisted over the years.
"One of the biggest changes at the club has been the geographic expansion of the membership," said John Walsh, another former caddie who ascended to the club's presidency. "Thirty or 40 years ago, almost all of the members lived within a five-mile radius of the club. But now we have members from as far away as Greenwich."
Bruce Guthrie, the club's vice president, said he thought the club was attracting more members from Fairfield County because of long waiting lists at most country clubs in the county, along with initiation fees that sometimes exceed $50,000, far more than those assessed at the New Haven Country Club. "We're not a big social club, and golf is our only basic," said Mr. Guthrie, also a former caddie.
By contrast with some country clubs in Fairfield County, there was a time when there was no waiting list to join the New Haven Country Club, Mr. Walsh said. "It was because of the recession in the 1980's," he said. But that that hardly meant anyone could join, and the waiting list has returned. But, he noted, "there have never been tee times, and there aren't now."
Another reason for the temporary decline in golfing members, and, indeed, the more diverse membership has been a change in Federal tax laws that prevents corporations from writing off country club memberships as business expenses.
Apart from a fireworks display in August and a centennial ball last evening, the club's centennial is being observed rather quietly, as are similar 100th anniversaries at the Wallingford Country Club, which is private, and the Shennecossett Golf Club in Groton, which is publicly owned.
Change, ranging from a recent $1 million restoration project to the opening of the men's grill and the men's porch to women, seems to have come smoothly to the club. But devotion to tradition is hardly lost.
"Most of the changes have been good," Mrs. Fivek. "But I would have preferred if the men's porch remained the same. After all, it does lead to the men's locker room. Yet I know that some women go out of their way to go up the steps to walk on the porch on the way to the women's locker room. I, myself, would never set foot on it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the shadow of the distinctive 1905 roof line, members of the New Haven Country Club hone their skills. Trees, many planted in the 1920's, flourish. Joe Goldshinsky, a caddy in 1926, became the club's head golf professional. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RODS (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN NEW ENGLAND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GOLF (92%); WRITERS (65%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%); SPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: THEODORE S WOOLSEY (58%); JOE GOLDSHINSKY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



517 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Magnet School, in Suburbia And Aiming for a Profit

BYLINE: By NANCY POLK

 BODY:
CONNECTICUT has its first Edison Project school -- a public/ private for-profit partnership run by Edison, aNew York-based company now having almost 50 schools in 25 cities under its direction.
It is the Wintergreen Interdistrict Magnet School, which takes its name from the Hamden street on which it is situated, replete with Edison and statewide firsts. 
 For Edison, specializing in partnership and charter school management, Wintergreen is its first multidistrict venture and the first magnet school. Four disparate communities have come together to participate: Hamden, Wallingford, New Haven and Woodbridge.
For Connecticut, Wintergreen is the first suburban/urban magnet school, and the first public school designed to earn a profit. For Edison, Wintergreen is a first experience with a complete renovation of an existing school, a formidable task. And for the first time, Edison will not answer to a single school system but to a regional educational service center, the Area Cooperative Education Services center, which includes school board representatives from the four school districts. The center manages the Educational Center for the Arts, a New Haven-based arts magnet for high school students.
Wintergreen is doing some things the same and some things differently from the partner districts. Each day, there is a 90-minute reading pause for all children with every teacher in art, music, physical education, as part of the Success for All Reading Program from Johns Hopkins University. A University of Chicago mathematics program and a richly well-stocked science room are standard components of all Edison schools. Spanish is offered beginning in kindergarten.
 Edison is known for its reliance on technology. In the second year each family of third graders and up will receive a desk-top computer to stay in touch with teachers and other Edison parents across the country. Computer training is required of parents, and each classroom has three computers.
Parents will be able to reach teachers at their homes to discuss their children's progress, unusual in public schools. Teachers will work on year-long contracts, with salaries on a par with the top two-thirds of state teachers. About 400 educators competed for the 27 positions at Wintergreen.
The standard school year for Connecticut schools is 180 days. By the second year Wintergreen plans to be open 205 days, and the school day is about a half-hour longer than at most public schools. And every spring Edison will query parents, students and staff with a customer satisfaction survey. Like any business, it will consider their future strategies on the basis of the survey results.
 How will Edison make money? Nancy Bailey, a start-up manager for Edison, says the company relies on economies of scale -- purchasing computers for many schools at once, for example. It seeks out bargains rather than filling out a purchase order and waiting for an office to process the request. One staff custodian is always in the school, but maintenance is handled by an outside cleaning company. "We expect to make a small profit from many schools," Ms. Bailey explained, with Wintergreen expected to be in the black in five years.
 The profit aspect of Edison ventures has been controversial elsewhere but in Connecticut, parents in Hamden, New Haven and Wallingford responded so enthusiastically that a lottery was needed for admission.
Woodbridge parents, however, have not sent any students to fill their 20-seat allotment. The superintendent of Woodbridge's single elementary school, Dr. Peter Madonia, said, "Our parents needed to have a product to see because many of them came to town for Beecher Road School." He added, "One of the other problems was the misunderstanding about length of travel time."
He was personally disappointed no Woodbridge children are participating this fall, he said, because he admires the Edison Project educational philosophy. "They're trying to raise the bar in terms of standards and achievement of students," he said.
In Hamden, the school superintendent, Alida Begina, said, "We had 700 applicants for 249 slots." She cited the longer day and year, all-day kindergarten, Spanish instruction and the hefty infusion of technology as some of the differences from her regular programs. "I wanted a parental choice that was different and this is it," she said.
In New Haven, the superintendent, Reginald Mayo, said he joined the consortium because, "It's very consistent with our pioneering efforts with interdistrict schools. We have 450 students coming into New Haven from the surrounding towns. It would be hypocritical not to share in a reciprocal way."
Dr. Mayo is curious about the Edison Project. "This is a chance to take a look at Edison," he said. "I have played with it and toyed with it. We may involve some of our own schools."
The profit element does not trouble Dr. Mayo. He said he is concerned with results. He cited outside food services as an example of using non-school personnel. "I have no problem with an outside organization doing the instructional piece. We're not doing so well with the instructional piece."
Dr. Joseph Cirasuolo, superintendent of Wallingford Schools, said his district was sending 32 children although originally they only had a 20-student allotment. Travel time could be up to an hour each way, he said, but the greater diversity of the Wintergreen student population was one attraction of the new school, as were the foreign language and the longer school day, which he hopes may eventually be adopted statewide.
The Wintergreen student body is 61.4 percent white, 25.6 percent black, 5.7 percent Hispanic, 4.4 percent Asian and 2.8 percent other. This year it has 336 students from kindergarten through grade three. The following year grades four through eight will be added for a total enrollment of 600.
The school plans to offer older children the chance to be mentors to the younger ones. "They will teach what they know, which reinforces what they have learned," explained Dale Bernardoni, the principal of Wintergreen. Ms. Bernardoni, a popular principal from East Hampton, said, "I think the most serious problem we will ultimately have to face will be excess applicants."
For Peter Young, director of the Area Cooperative Education Services center, the Wintergreen Interdistrict Magnet School is the fulfillment of a long-term commitment: 'Magnets in the south-central region have essentially been centered in New Haven," he said. "We felt that it was important to have magnets not only in New Haven but to have New Haven kids moving out to the suburbs."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Wintergreen Interdistrict Magnet School in Hamden, technology is integrated with standard public-school fare. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Dale Bernardoni, the principal, welcomes students to the Edison Project's new Wintergreen magnet school in Hamden. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (76%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MAGNET SCHOOLS (92%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (86%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SUBURBS (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (73%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (67%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (61%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (60%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (56%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



518 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Two Towns, Sad Legacy From the Old Ivory Trade

BYLINE: By BILL RYAN

 BODY:
IN the last half of the 19th century and the first half of this century, two towns near the mouth of the Connecticut River were famed for an industry that brought them great prosperity. Today that industry would provoke screams of rage from human rights and animal rights activists for the dead bodies, thousands upon thousands of them, human and animal, that the industry left in its wake.
The towns are Deep River and Essex and the industry was ivory, the importing of elephant tusks from Africa and the cutting of them into combs and knife handles and ornaments but particularly into piano keys at a time in America when every family had a piano, or wanted one. 
 In both communities, the sight of elephant tusks being hauled off the decks of steamships at river landings, or being transported to factories in horse-drawn wagons, was once so commonplace that no one turned a head.
The two companies that shaped the towns for generation after generation were Pratt, Read & Company in Deep River and Comstock, Cheney & Company in Essex. Now they are memories, but their buildings remain -- Pratt, Read's now a condominium complex known, appropriately, as The Piano Works and Comstock, Cheney's now mostly occupied by other businesses. Starting on next Sunday, half a century after the ivory business finally collapsed with the advent of plastics, the two river towns will jointly offer a series of free programs and exhibits on the ivory trade. Entitled "The Towns That Elephants Built," the series is the brainchild of Robbi Storms, librarian in the Ivoryton section of Essex. A couple of years ago, Mrs. Storms says, she opened a letter from the Connecticut Humanities Council advising that grant money was available. A former high school English teacher, she had never written a grant proposal but did have an idea, and the grant was won.
Her idea was to explain the economic and social impact of ivory on Essex and Deep River as Pratt, Read and Comstock, Cheney became so economically powerful that at the turn of this century they dominated the ivory trade between Africa and America. And, of course, they also dominated their towns simply by being the major employers. People in Deep River worked for Pratt, Read. People in Essex, particularly those in Ivoryton, worked for Comstock, Cheney.
Ivoryton was, and because so much of it remains intact, still is, a model of a company town. Virtually everything of importance was connected to Comstock, Cheney.
The Ivoryton Library was put up by Comstock, Cheney for its workers. The company also built the Ivoryton Playhouse, diagonally across Main Street from the library, as a place where the workers could go for meetings and entertainment. It provided a company store and an Episcopal church, All Saints. It constructed a dormitory for unmarried male workers, houses for married workers and bigger homes for its executives, all within walking distance of work. The old dormitory, which eventually became the Ivoryton Inn, is now shuttered but still standing, as are the homes built for the factory workers and now owned privately. The playhouse is enjoying an extended life as a summer theater.
The library, now supported by the town, is a structure of wooden walls and high ceilings, so ornately Victorian that a visitor almost expects the librarian to wear a hoop skirt. The only major alteration to the building from the 1890's, when it was new, is a central heating system, a modern-day substitution for the building's seven fireplaces.
But despite all the reminders of the earlier, and fascinating, age all about them, Mrs. Storms says, many people in Ivoryton today, even some who live in former factory-built homes, know little about the history of the area and the ivory trade.
"I want people to know the history of this library and the town, and ivory," she says. "Ivoryton has a new population of people who live in big houses on big lots going up all around us and they know nothing about the history here."
She realizes that the history includes a somber downside in Africa, where the number of animals slaughtered and the number of enslaved Africans who died in the hunt for ivory is a horror story. But it is part of the overall story that should also be told, she feels. And that is where Richard Conniff comes in.
Mr. Conniff, recruited by Mrs. Storms for her project, is a writer whose work appears in National Geographic Magazine and other publications and who lives in Old Lyme. He is also, sort of by happenstance, very well versed in the ivory trade.
In the mid 1980's, Mr. Conniff was living in an old ship captain's house in Deep River and stumbled upon a facet of the town that particularly interested him. It was the link to the African ivory trade and he started to investigate it.
The result was a long article in Audubon Magazine in 1987, entitled "When the Music in Our Parlors Brought Death to Darkest Africa."
The article detailed the start of the ivory industry along the Connecticut River in 1798 when a Yankee artisan named Phineas Pratt invented a saw, using wind or water power, to cut ivory.
Ivory is simply the elongated and pointed teeth that extend outside the mouths of certain animals. Elephants have the hardest and smoothest, and therefore most desirable. Mr. Pratt's device was to transform ivory cutting from a tedious craft into an industry.
The Pratt business originally concentrated on ivory combs but in the latter part of the 19th century the piano business was booming, ivory for the piano keys was in great demand, and Pratt, Read and Comstock, Cheney, were prospering.
"For a time they had so dominated the ivory trade that their business determined not just demand in Zanzibar, the major trading center, but even the price paid for tusks in the East African bush, where the elephants were being killed," Mr. Conniff wrote.
"They were major buyers during the period of wholesale slaughtering of Africa's elephants, from about 1860 to 1930. According to various estimates, 25,000 to 100,000 elephants died each year then, the vast majority of them to supply the raw material for the piano keys that brightened every Victorian parlor."
One of the early enigmas of the connection between Connecticut and Africa was that some of the businessmen involved here were ardent abolitionists who either did not know of the horrors of getting the ivory there -- or chose to ignore it.
The toll in human life was beyond calculation. In the last century, most of the ivory trade in Africa was conducted by Muscat Arabs of Zanzibar. They directed caravans of men, women and children farther and farther into the interior of what was still a mostly unknown continent, in the search for elephants to kill and to transport the tusks back.
Many of the slaves never made it. Henry Morton Stanley, the newspaper correspondent who attained fame for finding the missionary and explorer David Livingtone in Africa, wrote about long lines of half-starved slaves, bound with chains that would have restrained an elephant, on marches that would last for months.
Those who lagged behind were killed, he said, and estimated that every pound of ivory cost the life of a man, woman or child in Africa.
David Livingstone estimated that not more than one in five slaves who started back to the coast reached their destination, not more than one in nine on some routes. It was a business of horrific dimensions on a continent thousands of miles away from the white populations of Deep River and Ivoryton.
 
A Timetable
"The Towns That Elephants Built" series of programs will start with a reception for members and sponsors next Sunday from 3 to 5 P.M. at Ivoryton Library and will feature an exhibition of 30 large photographs of the ivory trade.
Other key dates are:
 Oct. 18 at 3 P.M. at the Ivoryton Playhouse, lecture on development of the factory town and creation of the ivory industry, by Donald Malcarne.
Nov. 15 at 3 P.M. at the Ivoryton Library, lecture and colloquium on the uses of ivory, presented by Brenda Milkofsky. Evaluation will also be made of buttons, combs and other ivory artifacts.
Jan. 17, 1999, at the Ivoryton Playhouse, "An Evening of Scott Joplin and Friends," a musical presentation by Todd Ellison.
Feb. 7, 1999, at the Deep River Historical Society, lecture by Richard Conniff on the connection between the ivory trade and the abolition of slavery.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Worker with an elephant tusk outside the Pratt, Read ivory vault in Deep River, circa 1890. In Essex, it was Comstock, Cheney that ruled. (Ivoryton Library)(pg. 1); Louie E. Pratt, right, and Oscar Lynn weighed ivory tusks, circa 1955. Robbi Storms, librarian, wanted towns to know more about the ivory trade. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT RIVER BANCORP (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GRANTS & GIFTS (86%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); MEN (69%); STUDENT HOUSING (68%); CONDOMINIUMS (66%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (63%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%); 

PERSON: ROBBI STORMS (71%); RICHARD L CONNIFF (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



519 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2060 words

HEADLINE: In Church, Changing of the Guard

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
BESET by rising costs and shrinking congregations, traditional Protestant churches that were once community mainstays in dozens of Long Island towns and villages are struggling to stay afloat.
Although some of the Island's nearly 800 Protestant congregations are expanding or holding their own, many are selling property or renting church buildings to other congregations and private groups to make ends meet. 
 Increasingly, smaller congregations unable to pay the salary of a full-time minister are economizing with part-time or retired clergy. Some churches open only for Sunday services.
For other congregations meeting in now-outsized church buildings that are filled, on Sundays, not with parishioners but with empty pews, the cost of maintaining aging church buildings is growing ever more onerous.
At the Cathedral of the Incarnation in Garden City, a floriated Gothic church consecrated in 1885 and the seat of the Episcopal Diocese of Long Island, declining attendance had left the cathedral, which can comfortably seat about 650 people, less than half full on most Sundays in recent years.
The diocese, which includes Nassau, Suffolk, Queens and Brooklyn, is facing financial problems and in recent years has sold a number of properties, including the former St. Paul's-St. Mary's School in Garden City. The cathedral is currently in bankruptcy because of debts incurred by the schools.
The Rev. Canon F. Anthony Cayless, the cathedral provost, said the picture had brightened within the last two or three years. "Suddenly we've got lots of children and young families," he said. "So I think the tide is turning."
But conditions were not so hopeful at small Protestant congregations where membership has hovered near historic lows.
While dissolution of congregations remains rare, pressures that have been building for years are approaching a crisis point in some parishes, clergy members from several denominations said.
"Let's just say that survival is most on their minds," said the Rev. Tom M. Castlen, executive presbyter of the Presbytery of Long Island, which includes 57 Presbyterian churches in Nassau and Suffolk.
Mr. Castlen said that the two largest Presbyterian churches on Long Island were now a predominantly African-American congregation, Memorial Presbyterian Church in Roosevelt, and a Korean congregation, the United Korean Presbyterian Church of Long Island, which has opened a new church in Bethpage in a former Grumman Corporation building.
Indeed, Protestant clergy agreed that growth and stability appeared greatest in African-American and Asian congregations, while predominantly white, traditional congregations seemed most battered by change.
They also agreed that charismatic and more scripturally conservative congregations, some relatively new, seemed to be faring better than traditional Protestant churches, which generally hold more liberal positions on issues such as abortion and homosexuality.
In sum, they suggested that after 50 years of steady decline, the long reign of the WASP seems to have been eclipsed, at century's end, in a region where Protestants held sway for more than 300 years.
Long Island, whose European settlers were English Protestants on the East End and Dutch and English Protestants in Brooklyn, Queens and what is now Nassau County, remained predominantly Protestant through the first half of the 20th century.
In some areas on the North Shore of Nassau County, incorporated villages were almost exclusively Protestant enclaves where Catholic and Jewish families were present in very small numbers, if at all.
But after World War II, rapid change began as more Catholics, many of Irish and Italian origin, moved to the Island. The Island's Jewish population also grew dramatically, especially in Nassau County.
Currently, most demographers estimate Long Island is about half Catholic and about one-fifth Jewish. Protestants and others make up the remainder.
Estimates vary, however. A 1993 survey by the Long Island Council of Churches said Protestants made up 53 percent of the Long Island population. Demographers and others generally regard that estimate as too high.
The Federal Census does not include statistics on religious adherence because of the Constitutional requirement for separation of church and state. But according to the Compton's Encyclopedia, 64 percent of Americans are Protestants, 25 percent Catholic and 2 percent are Jewish. The remainder belonged to other major faiths or had no religious ties.
Long Island's population of about 2.7 million is up only about 50,000 from 1980. But many Protestant clergy members said that as Protestant families left during the past two decades they were most often replaced by families of other faiths.
"Anecdotally, real estate agents tell us that only about one in six houses are sold to Protestant families," said the Rev. Maurice A. Fetty, senior minister of the Congregational Church of Manhasset, an area with a high Protestant population.
Mr. Fetty said that an influx of young families into the Manhasset area was bringing new members to the church to replace older ones who had left. Sunday school attendance was up, he said, reversing a trend, and adult membership was holding steady at about 700 still far below the 3,700 adult membership in 1970. The church now rents space to an independent Chinese congregation.
"We are holding our own now, but the difference is that younger people do not attend church as regularly as former generations," Mr. Fetty said. "Many have weekend condominiums, boats, places in the Hamptons, ski lodges, and there are so many weekend sports activities. But they do support the church financially."
At Christ Church of Manhasset, an Episcopal church, the Rev. Leslie C. Hughs said membership had remained stable at about 300 for the past decade. But changes in the congregation have brought financial challenges.
"When we lose established members through death, retirement and leaving Long Island, they tend to have been giving at a higher level than the younger families coming in," Mr. Hughs said. "The numbers remain consistent, but the level of income from contributions goes down."
Episcopalians, theologically the closest to Roman Catholics of all Protestants, make up about 4 percent of the country's total Protestant population, according to Compton's. But on Long Island, as elsewhere, church members historically included some of the region's wealthiest families.
"The wealth and the power of the Episcopalians made them appear bigger than they were," Mr. Hughs said. He said the reputation also added to current problems for his church.
"One of the misconceptions is that churches on the North Shore of Long Island have huge endowments from the families that used to live here, and generally that's not true," he said. "It's a real problem because people say they don't need money."
For several years Christ Church has been trying to sell or lease property adjacent to the church where the parish house is located. "It just became too expensive to maintain such a facility that had really outgrown the congregation's use," Mr. Hughs said. He said the house and the church were used by a Korean Presbyterian congregation.
While some churches in Manhasset struggle to hold their ground, at least one -- the Manhasset Baptist Church -- is thriving. The church, which expanded four years ago to accommodate about 400 worshipers on most Sundays, is "theologically more conservative" on issues such as abortion and homosexuality, said the Rev. Bryan Wilkerson, its pastor. He said about half the worshipers were former Catholics.
"People are looking for a strong message from the Bible that speaks to their everyday needs," Mr. Wilkerson said. "Our services are vibrant and upbeat, and they don't feel they have stepped out of normal life into some bygone era or cloister."
Traditional sacred music is still used at the church. But in addition, what Mr. Wilkinson called contemporary Christian music is provided by a "praise band" whose instruments include electric guitars and drums.
Some congregations have resisted renting or sharing church space with other denominations or groups. But many others now depend on rents to meet budgets, pay pastors and keep up buildings.
"Some of our churches probably could not hold on to their buildings unless they rented to other groups," said the Rev. Dr. John A. Blackwell, the associate conference minister for the southern region of New York for the United Church of Christ.
"A number of churches have been forced to sell property, and there are others who should sell or rent property to another church, but you have people who just won't do that."
Dr. Blackwell said the cost of maintenance augmented the difficulty some churches had meeting United Church of Christ salary guidelines for pastors. The lowest recommended base salary is $20,944, which does not include benefits such as health insurance, pension and residency in a church-owned parsonage.
"With some of the smaller churches this is just out of the question," Dr. Blackwell said. In such cases, congregations hire part-time or retired pastors and pay what they can.
Some churches have drawn on their prestige and status as local architectural landmarks to meet unexpected expenses.
The Venerable Jerome J. Nedelka, the rector of St. Mark's Episcopal Church in Islip and the Archdeacon of Suffolk County for the Long Island diocese, said St. Mark's faced crisis when it was extensively damaged in an arson fire in 1989.
Some of the damage was covered by insurance, but the church also incurred substantial costs. Church and community members helped meet the expense.
"We rebuilt it exactly the way it was, with some modern necessities, and that cost us an extra $1 million," Mr. Nedelka said. "Fortunately because of the church history and prestige in the community we were able to raise most of it. But the upkeep and maintenance of older buildings is significant and you need the kind of congregation that is interested in doing what is needed."
Mr. Nedelka said the church recently spent $45,000 to replace windows "despite doing all the work ourselves."
The church was built in 1880 with a donation from William K. Vanderbilt, whose summer mansion, Idle Hour in Oakdale, is now part of Dowling College.
But with super-wealthy patrons gone and large churches and properties difficult to maintain, the Episcopal diocese is feeling the strain.
"It is simple a reality that many things that were needed and viable in the 19th century become unnecessary and cannot be sustained as you enter the 21st century," said the Venerable John A. Greco, Archdeacon of Nassau County for the Episcopal diocese.
"In my own experience, any number of my former parishioners and their children have moved away from Long Island for job opportunities, because of the cost of living, or just because they wanted a different environment," said Mr. Greco, the former rector of St. Jude's Episcopal Church in Wantagh. "Now we have an awful lot of churches in the diocese of Long Island reflecting the post-World War II boom, and a lot of them have proven to be redundant."
There are 44 Episcopal churches in Nassau and 43 in Suffolk.
An air of mystery persists over what happened to all the Protestants, and how this once-dominant segment of the Long Island population came to be a minority.
In Manhasset, Father Hughs of Christ Church said, there was among some members of the clergy a half-serious explanation. "At one point the presidents and vice presidents of companies lived in Manhasset, but then they moved on to Lattingtown and Locust Valley and were replaced by the next level down."
And, the theory goes, the presidents and vice presidents were mostly Protestants, while those in the the next level down were less likely to be Protestant.
In Locust Valley, the Locust Valley Reformed Church was "thriving with a good strong membership and financial base, and a growing Sunday school," said the Rev. Dr. Randall Bosch, who retired two years ago as the church pastor.
But. Mr. Bosch said he too was puzzled by changes in Long Island demography that have made Protestants a minority.
"What happened? That's the $64,000 question," he said. "You could give any number of explanations. No one of them explains the situation."

GRAPHIC: Photos: AFTER three centuries of dominance, the Protestant churches that reflect the faith and culture of Long Island's first white settlers are struggling to stay afloat. At the Congregational Church of Manhasset, empty pews reflect the decline in members, who numbered 3,700 in 1970 and are now down to 700. The Cathedral of the Incarnation in Garden City, top left, suffered a symbolic blow when the big Labor Day storm broke off a spire. Repairs had to be made when the stonework went through the roof. The healthiest Protestant churches are Asian and African-American congregations, and those offering a more conservative message than espoused by the mainstream denominations. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Cathedral of the Incarnation in Garden City reports an influx of members, but it is still in bankruptcy. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (62%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (62%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (62%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (62%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (62%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (62%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CHILDREN (71%); LIBERALISM (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



520 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 3; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: CHATTER;
A Casino in Wildwood?

 BODY:
Should an Indian-run casino be allowed in Wildwood on a municipal parking lot that would be transferred to the Delaware tribe?
 
Why Not?
Why not have a casino in Wildwood? If they have them in Atlantic City, I don't see any harm in having one in Wildwood.
 
CINDY CIOFFI
West Long Branch
 
Nothing to Gain
I'm absolutely against it because of the environmental impact. It will mean an influx of more people in an already overcrowded area. If they think it is going to give the area an economic boost, they should look at what casinos have done in Atlantic City. It just put more people in poverty and hasn't helped the residents at all.
 
LESLIE EDEN CLARE
Atlantic Highlands
Indians Deserve It
The Indians have their basic rights. Give them what they deserved. They have been abused for so long. God bless the Indians.
 
NAPOLEON A. BARTOLAZO
Seminole, Fla.
 
Yes and No
Talk about an interesting quandary. On one hand, I'm very supportive of Indians and trying to "give back" what we've taken, if that is possible. But on the other hand, I'd hate to see a casino come into the Cape May area, where I used to spend time.
Casinos have shown that they can revitalize an area. They provide jobs for native people who are typically unemployed and they provide much needed income for people who are usually living well below the poverty line. Casino work provides a measure of self-respect and pride for reservation people. But there is no reservation at this site. So, who would be employed there but non-Indians?
Additionally, a casino brings in more people, more traffic, more drinking, and a lot of problems.
Does the land need to go to the Indians? Maybe, but I'd vote against it if it were up to me.
 
ELISANNE MacHARDY MEAD
Salt Lake City
 
Share the Wealth
I am not necessarily against an Indian-run casino whose money would ultimately be transferred to the Delaware tribe, but the Wildwood proposal does not seem fair for the other groups who live there. The money raised on municipal land should be directed to social agencies that would benefit the whole community, such as hospitals, libraries or schools.
 
LAURA COBRINIK
Queens, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



521 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2947 words

HEADLINE: Space Is Tight, Office Markets Robust

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
WITH vacancy rates declining, rents rising and some tenants opting to move either to the suburbs or to parts of Manhattan that were once avoided, the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market in the New York area have been robust in the first nine months of the year.
According to preliminary third quarter figures compiled by the Julien J. Studley company, the overall vacancy rate for office space in Manhattan fell to 5.8 percent, from 6.8 percent in the second quarter, while average rents rose to $31.29 a square foot annually, from $28.97 a foot. 
 Lost in these averages is the fact that in some parts of midtown, such as the area near Grand Central Terminal, space in the newest and best buildings is all but unavailable, and asking rents of $70 a square foot have been reported.
The vitality of the office market has also been reflected in the retail sector, with some stretches of Madison and Fifth Avenues commanding annual rents of $300 to $500 a square foot. Hotels are filled nearly to practical capacity, with room-rate increases fattening owners' profits.
But the gyrations of the stock market are having an impact on sales of property, with the decline in the price of real estate investment trust stocks removing them, at least temporarily, from the acquisition scene and forcing other financing sources to reevaluate their plans.
"The sentiment is different," said Peter Hauspurg, the chairman of Eastern Consolidated Properties, which specializes in building sales, "and we're trying to sort out what it means." He said financing sources were now requiring developers to supply a higher proportion of funding for deals. "Wall Street and the hedge funds pulled back from financing in the 80 to 90 percent range," Mr. Hauspurg said.
Mr. Hauspurg said the new reluctance of investment firms to aggressively finance purchases was likely to slow the pace of transactions as buyers and sellers are forced to negotiate new terms. "This is not great for the sales business," he said. "When the price changes, the volume drops 80 percent."
"There were a number of players," said Sean F. Hennessey, director of the New York hospitality practice for PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm, "who were going to put properties on the market who have pulled back due to the impact of the stock market. The buyers have gotten fewer and pickier. They are looking for better deals than two months ago."
The real estate investment trusts, the tax-sheltered acquisition and ownership vehicles that made such a splash in the metropolitan area over the last few years, have grown quiet, the victim of their falling share prices and their own structure.
To avoid paying taxes on income, the REIT's must pay out 95 percent of their income to shareholders as dividends. This means they do not have much in the way of retained earnings. And with a depressed price, they are not inclined either to return to public markets for additional financing or to use their stock to acquire properties, in order to avoid diluting the value of existing shares.
For instance, Vornado Realty Trust, which acquired Bernard Mendik's portfolio of midtown buildings in 1997 and went on to buy most of the property along Seventh Avenue between 34th and 31st Streets, has not announced any new acquisitions recently. That is probably because its shares, which reached $50 early in the year, have recently been trading below $30 a share.
"At this point, it is difficult for REIT's to raise capital and they don't want to use their own stock as scrip to make acquisitions," said Michael T. Cohen, the president of Williams Real Estate. "REIT stock is not cash anymore."
Some market watchers say the decline of the REIT's represents a return to reality. "The market got frothy," said Dennis Yeskey, the regional manager for real estate services at Deloitte & Touche, an accounting and consulting firm. "REIT's were out of whack in 1996 and 1997, trading at 20 times earnings, when they should be at 8 times."
REIT's will find a way to stay active players in the real estate market, but will be forced to change their tactics, others argue. "REIT's were the number one bidder for every property coming on the market seven or eight months ago," said Kevin Haggarty, executive managing director of the Insignia/ESG Capital Advisers group. "Now they are number two or number three, but they will continue to make acquisitions in categories where they are dominant."
Rather than trying to sell stock or debt securities based on the overall corporation, REIT's seeking capital in the current climate are likely to place mortgages on individual properties, Mr. Haggarty said, although there is little evidence they have done so yet.
But if the investment market is being roiled by the stock market, the leasing market remains strong, so strong that some tenants' brokers are recommending that their clients not make any long-term commitments at this time.
"I'd advise people to extend their lease short-term and stay where they are," said James Meiskin, president of Plymouth Partners, a tenants' broker. "This is no time to make long-term decisions. The market may well be at its apex."
Ruth Colp-Haber, a partner in Wharton Property Advisors, which also represents tenants, said that because of the tight market "landlords are making demands at the last minute, upping rents and taking away space." High rentals and the shortage of space "represent a significant impediment to small business growth in New York City," Ms. Colp-Haber added. "This is the downside of an otherwise vibrant economy and booming real estate market. In sum: things are so good, they're bad."
According to market analysts, the demand for space is being driven by rising employment and the fact that virtually no new office buildings have been added to the city's inventory for almost 10 years. "There have been 180,000 jobs added in New York and those people need space to work," said Raymond T. O'Keefe, the president of Grubb & Ellis New York.
"Look out the window, there are no building cranes," said Thomas P. Falus, the president of Cushman & Wakefield of New York, speaking of most of the city. "The only building that's going on is where there are already leases. The supply/demand equation looks pretty good."
Without the glut of empty space coming on to a declining market that characterized the late 1980's, many real estate executives expect rent levels to hold, with companies priced out of the Manhattan market heading for the other boroughs or suburbs. "I don't think we are going to see a big increase in rents, which is good," Mr. O'Keefe said. "They will probably stay on this plateau for awhile." He said the reason for this moderation is that demand for space and the available supply are in rough equilibrium.
 
Midtown
Low Vacancy Rates And New Patterns
Class A space, which is in the newest and most technically advanced buildings, is all but unavailable in midtown, with CB Richard Ellis calculating the vacancy rate at 2.2 percent. This has produced some movement of tenants to downtown, but for many companies a midtown location is essential to running their business and they are paying to stay put.
"There are lots of alternative markets, including North Dakota," observed David W. Levinson, an executive managing director of Insignia/ESG, a real estate services company. "The critical questions are where are a company's clients and can they get the employee skills they need. It's these operational issues that are critical, not saving a couple of dollars a square foot on real estate. Real estate only controls the relocation decision if everything else is neutral."
To avoid an unending upward spiral some companies are seeking to break out of the traditional tenant-landlord model. For instance, the news and financial information company Reuters has formed a joint venture with the Rudin family to build an 855,000-square-foot building on Seventh Avenue from 42d to 43d Streets that will serve as Reuters headquarters.
Reuters officials have said they see the joint venture as a means of controlling costs in a rising market and being able to tailor the building so it projects the image of a high-technology company.
Similarly, Bear Stearns will control its own 1.1 million-square-foot building at 383 Madison Avenue between 46th and 47th Streets, where demolition of the old structure on the site is currently under way. The financial services company has a 99-year lease on the underlying land.
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority has a 49-year lease on all 1,595,000 square feet of space at 2 Broadway under which it controls the building and pays all the bills.
"Major tenants don't want the traditional tenant-landlord relationship," said Peter Riguardi, an executive vice president of Colliers ABR, who helped negotiate the M.T.A. deal this summer. "They want to control their environment and have their own security. They don't want to have to look at the lease every time they want to do something different."
With the Reuters and Bear Stearns projects under way, the 1.6 million-square-foot building under construction by the Durst Organization on Broadway between 42d and 43d Streets loses it distinction as the only major new office project in the city.
Real estate executives said they expect other available building sites to be utilized quickly. These include the two remaining Times Square sites south of 42d Street, which are controlled by Mortimer B. Zuckerman and George Klein, and the half block on Seventh Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets that is usually referred to as "Rock West" because it is owned by The Rockefeller Group. At Rock West, the financial services company Morgan Stanley Dean Witter has reached an agreement with the Rockefeller Group to build a million-square-foot building on what is now a parking lot.
Since sites where new construction can proceed are very few in Manhattan, older buildings will have to be upgraded if they are to be competitive. A market report prepared by CB Richard Ellis noted that while the vacancy rate in midtown buildings built since 1980 is 2.3 percent, it is 6.3 percent for those built before that. "Building renovations will accelerate as the office market tightens and tenants demand Internet-ready infrastructure," the report predicts. "As Grand Central station finishes its renovation, look for the entire submarket to respond with building upgrades."
 
Downtown
Companies Move In To Get Lower Rents
A few years ago the prospects for real estate in the downtown market were so bleak that the city mounted a special incentive program that gave tax breaks to commercial tenants who would locate there and incentives to owners who would convert old office buildings to apartments and condominiums. Now downtown is becoming an outlet for tenants being squeezed by midtown's rising rates.
The M.T.A.'s decision to lease the entire 1,595,000 square feet at 2 Broadway, between Stone and Beaver Streets on the southern tip of the island, was one of the biggest leasing transactions of recent years, but not the only one.
Guardian Life Insurance Company is leaving its midtown south location near Union Square to occupy 450,000 square feet of space at 7 Hanover Square at the intersection of William and Water Streets. The company also has options to expand to 880,000 square feet over the next 10 years.
According to a survey by Cushman & Wakefield the overall vacancy rate downtown has dipped below 10 percent, with Class A vacancies down to 5.9 percent at the end of the second quarter, compared to 12.2 percent a year earlier.
Meanwhile, the average asking rent in the district reached $28 a square foot annually, a 13 percent increase from $24.85 in the same 1997 quarter, with Class A space up to $36.48 from $30.11 a year earlier.
"Back in the 1980's Park Avenue South was developed as an alternate to midtown," said Mr. Levinson of Insignia/ESG. "Now it is downtown that is the alternative. The office market is getting so tight that some buildings that were scheduled for conversion to residential may stay office." For example, the building at 10 Hanover Square was scheduled for conversion before the Goldman Sachs financial services company leased 522,000 square feet.
"Downtown is much healthier than it was, due to the conversion program," said Mr. O'Keefe of Grubb & Ellis. "You have the residential units, and the state has signed to develop the Hudson River park. The area will have a life of its own."
 
The Suburbs
On Hudson Shore, Construction Is Back

 "The squeeze in on in midtown, and for that reason the Jersey shoreline will blossom," said Michael T. Cohen of Williams Real Estate.
With the waterfronts of Jersey City, Hoboken and Weehawken just a few PATH tube stops from Manhattan, building has resumed in Jersey City for the first time in almost a decade.
The Lefrak Organization is building a 561,000-square-foot office building at its Newport complex, while Hartz Mountain Industries is at work on a 419,000-square-foot tower at its Colgate site. Last week, the fund-management company Lord, Abbett & Company announced that it would move next year from the General Motors Building on Fifth Avenue to 150,000 square feet in Hartz Mountain's Colgate Center.
Other projects are being planned, including a 1,150,000-square-foot office and retail complex in Hoboken.
"There is a lot of activity in New Jersey," said Donald P. Eisen, an executive managing director of Cushman & Wakefield who specializes in suburban properties. "Now we are seeing companies compete for the same space. There is great interest in Newark from telecommunications companies who want to be close to the main telephone switches."
Rental rates for office space in the northern part of the state increased $2.15 a square foot to an average of $27.35 a square foot, Cushman & Wakefield reported, and several speculative office buildings are under construction.
The activity in New Jersey is not limited to office properties. The number of movie screens in the state has increased to 828 from 550 over the last decade as shopping center developers increasingly incorporate them in their designs to add entertainment to consumption and try to increase the latter by keeping shoppers around longer.
Real estate executives say the office markets in Westchester and Fairfield Counties have not revived to the extent New Jersey's has. "There is still space available in Westchester, although there is renewed interest in White Plains," Mr. Eisen said. He noted that Zurich Insurance was continuing to build in Stamford, Conn., but had decided to keep its headquarters in Manhattan.
On Long Island, the office market continues to recover, with the overall vacancy rate dropping 2.4 percentage points to 10.8 percent. At mid-year 1990 the rate was 17.6 percent, according to Cushman & Wakefield. Despite the low vacancy rate, rents, averaging $24.43 a square foot, have not risen enough to justify speculative construction, many real estate executives say.
 
Retail
For Shopping, Hot Area Is SoHo
SoHo is the hot shopping area, retail leasing specialists say, with both domestic and foreign-based retailers taking the place of the art galleries, whose inability to pay rising rents has driven them to west Chelsea. "It is as if a whole new shopping area is being built there," said Alan Victor, an executive vice president of Lansco Corporation, retail leasing specialists. He said many of the stores opening in the area are selling merchandise priced below that in stores along Fifth and Madison Avenues.
"If it is a jewelry store, it will sell fashion jewelry as opposed to custom works of art on Fifth Avenue," he said.
The robust economy, which has filled office buildings with well-paid workers, and the additional housing that has been built or converted is fueling demand for retail services, analysts say. This has strengthened the hand of landlords, particularly in areas of the city where certain retailers feel they must have a presence.
"Carriage trade retailers from all over the world need a Madison or Fifth Avenue address to show they are contenders in the world of platinum-card purchasers," a study by CB Richard Ellis concluded. "Entertainment and sports retailers are interested in Times Square and Fifth Avenue locations in order to burnish their images as players on a global stage."
According to the study, the higher retail rents, from $300 to $500 a square foot a year, are charged on Madison Avenue between 58th and 72d Streets and on Fifth Avenue between 51st and 59th Streets.

Hotels
Occupancy Is Up, And Prices Rise
New York's hotels remain filled to a high level of occupancy, as tourism and business bring more visitors to a city that is seen as safe and exciting. According to a survey of 70 hotels by PricewaterhouseCoopers, occupancy rates were 83.2 percent in the second quarter of this year, compared to 81.5 percent in the same period in 1997.
Strong demand is allowing hotel operators to improve their profit margins by boosting room rates. According to the same survey, the average daily cost of a hotel room in Manhattan rose to $198.70, a 16 percent increase over last year's second-quarter average of $171.39.
"It's no longer an occupancy story, because it can't get much higher," Mr. Hennessey said. "But it is giving hotel owners the opportunity to push up room rates."
And that translates directly into profits, because most hotel costs are fixed. Once the break-even point has been reached, much of the additional revenue falls to the bottom line, Mr. Hennessey said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Moving Downtown: Relocating from Union Square, Guardian Life Insurance is leasing 450,000 square feet at 7 Hanover Square. (pg. 1); The Metropolitan Transit Authority's decision to take all 1.595 million square feet at 2 Broadway was one of the biggest leasing transactions of recent years. Under the agency's 49-year lease it controls the building and pays all of its bills. (pg. 6) (Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Vacancies Are Down...And Asking Rents Are Up" show vacancy rates and average asking rents for multitenant buildings of over 100,000 square feet between 1984 and 1998 (Source: CB Richard Ellis)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "Recent Building Sales" shows a sampling of major transactions between Jan. 1 and Sept. 1 (Source: Insignia/ESG Capital Advisers)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: STUDLEY, JULIEN J, CO PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (58%); NEW YORK (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STUDLEY, JULIEN J, CO NEW YORK (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING; REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FINANCES REAL ESTATE (94%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); SUBURBS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); INCOME TAX (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



522 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Language Schools Count More On Bonjour

BYLINE: By MARCIA BIEDERMAN

 BODY:
USING pictures, pointing and pantomime, Margarita Gutierrez, an instructor at Berlitz International's language center on Rector Street, recently taught a visitor the Spanish words for "ballpoint pen," "briefcase" and "part-time job." But when the subject was computers, she had to violate Berlitz's policy of speaking only Spanish in a Spanish lesson. She used the English word "Internet" because it is used everywhere, she said.
The same phenomenon that confronted Ms. Gutierrez has long stoked Berlitz and other businesses like it. The global spread of English has provided the city's commercial language schools with a steady stream of foreign students eager to master it. Americans associate Berlitz with the "total immersion" courses in French and German popular in the 1960's, but the company's growth in recent years has owed more to the hunger for English, said John F. Bennett, Northeastern regional director. His statement was echoed by officials at other language schools. 
 Now, however, economic turmoil in Asia has slowed the enrollment of foreign students from Korea and Japan. "Some schools have been wiped out in the past year or so because they depended purely on teaching students from Korea," said Michael Riley, director of marketing for Rennert Bilingual on East 45th Street.
As a consequence, some schools have been shifting their focus to languages other than English, which for many had been a less important part of their business. While this retrenchment is hardly good news for the country's language schools, the ones in New York can at least see a silver lining.
In New York, the strong local economy and enthusiasm for multiculturalism -- among people who can afford to pay for language lessons -- have helped companies pick up the slack.
"People here are open to other cultures," Mr. Bennett said. "They like opera, they like foreign restaurants, they travel more than people in Cleveland." The city also has a supply of French and Chinese buffs, said Bernard Madon, director of the Language Learning Center on East 40th Street. "They want to learn it with no intention of using it."
New York's abundance of headquarters for multinational companies also gives city language schools a leg up. For-profit schools, which generally focus on the high end of the employee market, can sell individual instruction for upward of $35 an hour and fill up classes that are much smaller and more expensive than those given by colleges or nonprofit institutions.
At Berlitz, a worldwide company which is by far the leader among New York language schools, with one-third of the market, about 40 percent of the tuition is paid by employers. The proportion is growing, said Erin Giordano, a Berlitz marketing associate. At Accent on Language, which has corporate accounts with banks that do business in Brazil, the rolls for Portuguese lessons have grown 25 percent since 1996, while the number of English students has declined 50 percent, said Elio Boccitto, the company's owner.
Studying foreign languages is often a more lighthearted endeavor than studying English. Many foreign students of English are very serious, some being required by immigration laws to study 20 hours a week. English speakers studying other languages are more dilettantish, pleased to attain the high-beginner level at which they can get around in their second language, but not "like Henry Kissinger," Mr. Bennett said.
That level of skill is enough to please many employers. Selena Morris, a spokeswoman for Merrill Lynch, said her company offered optional language lessons, usually through Berlitz, to overseas-bound employees as part of an "expat package." But a rudimentary knowledge is all that is needed, she said, because Merrill Lynch business worldwide is conducted in English.
So the schools gear various programs for "lite" language learning. At Rennert Bilingual, there are wine-and-cheese parties where students are required to socialize in the languages they are studying.
This technique may be particularly apt because many students, business executives or not, are learning the foreign language for social reasons, Mr. Riley said. "Suzy Q might have an Italian boyfriend and she wants to get better acquainted with his family," he said.
An important growth area for Berlitz is its Cross-Cultural Training program for employees who are relocating and, equally important, for their families. ("Companies have found that unhappy families are the leading cause of unsuccessful assignments abroad," Berlitz says in its advertising materials.)
The program does not teach language, but rather manners and other useful knowledge for those going overseas. Berlitz students will learn that red roses are far too romantic to bring to a Swiss dinner party, and that asking an Arab man even routine questions about his wife may be frowned upon.
And the Language Learning Center, which is strong in French, Russian and Mandarin Chinese, matches students who are studying one another's primary language. These language pairs meet outside class time and some have even married each other, Mr. Madon said. Occasionally, he added, one person so dominates the conversation that the partner asks to be switched to someone else.
Richard Huarte, director of studies at the Inlingua Language Centers on Fifth Avenue and on Pine Street, said his school, which is second to Berlitz in its share of the New York market, has also used some of these techniques. Many other schools have, too.
Besides these special features, some schools peddle foreign language instruction as necessary for business even though English is now global. While an overseas business meeting may start out in English, a Berlitz brochure warns, "as the discussion becomes intense, people revert to their native language to express their true feelings and opinions."
Even though foreign language instruction is now helping these businesses through hard times, Mr. Boccitto said, it is a mature industry in the United States. That is why, he said, Berlitz paid $95 million last September for ELS Education Services, which specializes in English instruction. It may also be why Berlitz's first expansion in decades in the city, to a center in Flushing that opened in January, is intended primarily for the teaching of English.
Future growth in the industry will come from people yearning to speak English, said Mr. Boccitto, who served as president of Berlitz International until 1993. That is, if "we can survive these little hiccups," he added, referring to the Asian crisis.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rennert Bilingual, above, gives parties at which students must socialize in the languages they study. Below: A Berlitz Spanish class. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)
 
Charta: "TECHNIQUES: Speak Easy"
Some teaching strategies used by the city's language schools.
 
Language Learning Center
Practice partners. A French speaker, say, who is studying English is paired with an English speaker who is studying French. Partners meet in unused classrooms or at coffee shops for conversation.
 
Berlitz
Cross-cultural training for relocating employees and their families. Lasts several days and goes beyond "handshaking versus bowing," the school says.
 
Rennert Bilingual
Wine-and-cheese parties. Students must converse in the language studied.
 
Inlingua Language Centers
Practice partners paired by profession. Like Language Learning Center's program, but bankers are matched with bankers, doctors with doctors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: LANGUAGE LEARNING CENTER (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: LANGUAGE LEARNING CENTER (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (90%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. LANGUAGE SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); 

PERSON: JOHN F BENNETT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



523 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES;
New Issues Don't Mean Easy Pickings

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT 

 BODY:
INITIAL public offerings are viewed by many investors as the ultimate no-brainer. Virtually no homework is required in order to win. All you have to do is buy a company's stock on the day it goes public and realize huge one-day profits.
The coming I.P.O. of Goldman, Sachs & Company is feeding into this perception. Like schoolboys flipping through an issue of Playboy, investors reading the preliminary prospectus are titillated by the huge sums that the firm's partners stand to gain if, as expected, the firm goes public this November. Investors want part of the action. 
 All but lost is a more important question: Should investors be drawn to Goldman's I.P.O. simply because it is a new issue?
It is easy to understand why investors think they should. Imprinted on their memories are I.P.O. success stories like the saga of Netscape Communications, which soared to more than $75 from $28 on its initial offering day in 1995. I.P.O.'s are just so much money in the bank, they figure.
A funny thing has happened, however, on the way to the bank. Consider the performance of two newsletters that focus on I.P.O.'s: New Issues, published by the Institute for Econometric Research in Deerfield Beach, Fla., and Emerging and Special Situations, from Standard & Poor's. If returns like Netscape's were readily achievable, these newsletters should have easily beaten the market. But I calculate that they lagged behind the return of the Wilshire 5000 by 5.2 and 7.3 percentage points a year, respectively, from 1983 through July 1998. The Wilshire, made up of about 7,600 companies, is used as a proxy for the entire stock market.
Nor is the experience of these newsletters unique. Academic studies have consistently found that the average I.P.O. lags significantly behind the market in the five years after going public.
How could the public's perception become so distorted? Memories, it seems, are selective: Investors far more readily recall the Netscapes than the laggards.
If this were the end of the story, my advice would be to avoid the Goldman offering. But it's not, thanks to a recently published study by two professors, Alon Brav of the University of Chicago and Paul Gompers of Harvard. They discovered a peculiarity of previous studies that made the performance of I.P.O.'s appear to be worse than it was.
Here is why: Most companies that go public are of the "small cap growth" variety; they have small market capitalizations and relatively high price-to-book ratios. Historically, such companies have underperformed the broad market. When previous studies found that I.P.O.'s underperformed, all they were really reporting was the pattern of small-cap growth stocks.
As a result, such studies are not particularly relevant to the I.P.O. of a business like Goldman, which is certainly not a small-cap company and may or may not qualify as a growth stock depending on the price it brings. To correct for this, the professors studied I.P.O.'s after adjusting for market capitalization and price-to-book ratios. They found that the average I.P.O. matched the market's performance.
The implication is that the investment value of a company going public has nothing to do with the fact that it is a new issue. While you shouldn't automatically avoid I.P.O.'s, neither should you reflexively buy them.
But there is one more cautionary note to the findings: More companies go public near market tops than near bottoms. A company typically doesn't go public when it thinks the market will undervalue it.
Where are we now? The Institute for Econometric Research compares weekly I.P.O. dollar volume with gross domestic product on an annualized basis. Lower readings are more bullish. This ratio, which normally fluctuates between zero and five-tenths of a percent, soared to 2.53 percent in mid-July, when volume was extremely high. Even though volume has fallen, the current reading is a still-bearish 1.68 percent.
The bottom line is that there is no reason to expect that the Goldman offering will fare better or worse than the market over all. But the recent pace of I.P.O.'s casts doubt on the health of the market itself.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Matter of Benchmarks"
The investment performance of two newsletters that focus on initial public offerings has lagged behind a broad market index, the Wilshire 5000. They do far better against the Russell 2000 index of small stocks and its growth-oriented sibling.
 
Annualized return (Dec. 1982 - July 1998)
 
Emerging and Special Situations newsletter: 9.6%
New Issues newsletter: 11.7%
Wilshire 5000: 16.9%
Russell 2000: 12.5%
Russell 2000 Growth: 9.7%
 
(Sources: Frank Russell Co., Hulbert Financial Digest)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (54%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMETRIC RESEARCH (55%); INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMETRIC RESEARCH (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDMAN SACHS & CO INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMETRIC RESEARCH (55%); INSTITUTE FOR ECONOMETRIC RESEARCH (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (54%); FLORIDA, USA (54%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); BONDS (78%); PUBLISHING (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



524 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 9; Page 12; Column 3; Society Desk

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Pamela Paul, Bret Stephens

 BODY:
Pamela Lindsey Paul, the daughter of Carole Paul and Jerome D. Paul, both of New York, was married yesterday to Bret Louis Stephens, a son of Xenia and Charles Stephens of Somers, N.Y. John E. Parker, a town justice in Hurley, N.Y., officiated at the Peterson House, a reception hall in Bearsville, N.Y.
The bride, 27, is the director of marketing for the North American division of Unapix Entertainment, a film and video production and distribution company in New York. She also writes the Arts Watch column for The Economist magazine. She graduated from Brown University. Her father owns JDP Contracting, a construction business, and her mother is a freelance advertising copywriter, both in New York.
The bridegroom, 24, is the assistant features editor of the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal in New York. He graduated from the University of Chicago and is a candidate for a master's degree in government from the London School of Economics. His father retired as the vice president of General Products, a chemical company in Mexico City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); WRITERS (86%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); CHEMICALS (69%); CHEMICALS MFG (69%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (55%); 

PERSON: PAUL, PAMELA LINDSEY (PAMELA LINDSEY STEPHENS); STEPHENS, BRET LOUIS PAMELA LINDSEY PAUL (78%); JEROME D PAUL (56%); CAROLE PAUL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



525 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES;
Breathe Deeply, and Start Saving

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money will appear the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN "Down and Out in Paris and London," George Orwell wrote that "poverty annihilates the future." In a way, he was right. There is something liberating in being down to your last centimes and surviving, especially if you're George Orwell.
But this isn't Paris in the 1920's. This is New York on the cusp of the 21st century, with $9 movie tickets, $75 theater tickets, $300 for dinner for two at a four-star restaurant and $2,000 monthly rent for a one-bedroom apartment. At times, it's enough to make you long for a small town -- say, Ithaca, N.Y., where the winters can be dreadful but where Stephanie Winston, 32, and formerly of Manhattan, pays only $450 a month for a one-bedroom apartment with free off-street parking. 
 "I've got my car, I've got my job, and I don't stress trying to make ends meet," she said.
In the city, most people I know -- actors, writers, musicians, doctors, lawyers, chefs, professors, even an M.B.A. candidate -- do stress. And that anxiety has forced them to get serious about their fiscal prospects.
They now engage in all sorts of new behavior: scanning stock reports, lamenting the potential demise of Social Security, investing in condos. Partly, this stems from the fact that many are single women who have had to learn to take care of themselves. But some have reached genuine turning points, minor existential crises that propelled them into financial maturity.
"When I was 31, I was robbed at gunpoint, and it made me start thinking about my future," said Jill Diamond, now 33. "I realized I wanted security and stability, that I wanted to buy an apartment in New York, have a house in the country, afford clothing, travel and dining to my liking, and give my kids a similar upbringing as I had -- safe, and full of opportunities that money lends itself to."
So she educated herself, sitting down with accountants, lawyers and family members and questioning them about her finances.
She remembered the process: "I asked my family about the investments they already had in my name: What were they? How much was invested? What kind of access did I have to them? I never knew or really cared about any of that before."
She read books on money and self-esteem. And she abandoned her early career aspirations, of becoming a singer, instead opening a language school in Manhattan, which gave her a steady income and a greater sense of self.
Previously, she said, she found herself "dishing out thousands of dollars to musicians and making zilch on every gig, and teaching at a university as an adjunct with no prospects of a full-time job with benefits."
"This wasn't conducive to saving money," she noted. Almost two years later, the school is successful and her bank account solid.
Others took inventory after economic realities smacked them in the face.
Like many new college graduates, Amy Trapp moved into an apartment in New York long before she could support herself. "I ended up charging way too much and got myself in deep credit-card debt," recalled Ms. Trapp, now 38, of those days in the early 1980's. "One day when I realized that I couldn't take a cash advance on my Lord & Taylor card -- the only one that wasn't charged to the max -- I decided to consolidate my debt and begin paying off the balance each month. It took 18 months, but it worked."
It worked so well that after she paid off her debts, she kept making the same monthly payment to herself, putting the money into a savings account. Once she acquired a critical mass of cash, she moved up to a higher-interest, money-market account.
And after she received her first raise in her job as a credit analyst, she began setting aside half the after-tax amount. With enough money for the minimum investment, she tried a mutual fund.
"There were times when I spent the money I'd saved and times when my expenses got ahead of me, but I'd just go back and start again," she said. "Saving can be done in baby steps, and if it's done in smaller and more frequent increments it hurts less."
YES, it does -- much less than watching your A.T.M. spit out a notice of insufficient funds. And this is true even if you believe, as Orwell did, that there is "a great consolation in poverty," which he later described as "a feeling of relief, almost of pleasure, at knowing yourself at last genuinely down and out."
He added: "You have talked so often of going to the dogs -- and well, here are the dogs, and you have reached them, and you can stand it. It takes off a lot of anxiety."
Orwell may have been on to something, and all the poets, actors and artists of the world can take solace in it. But the rest of us find solace in knowing ourselves genuinely secure. That takes off the anxiety.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCES ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); FAMILY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); FILM (76%); WRITERS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MUSIC (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); ROBBERY (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%); 

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



526 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
In Silicon Valley, Talent in Reserve

BYLINE: By VIVIENNE WALT 

 BODY:
IN 1994, Michael Bowles was skulking outside his office at Hughes Electronics in El Segundo, Calif., whispering on public telephones to potential investors and pleading for financing to start his own cable modem company.
"It was pretty discouraging," he said. "None of them knew me, and they had a lot of trepidation about handing over a company to me." 
 Mr. Bowles, 49, finally pieced together the money to move to California's Silicon Valley and start Com21 in Milpitas. In classic Valley style, though, the thrill ended for him the moment the company went public last January. But rather than return to the phone booth, he became one of the high-technology industry's most desired modern commodities: an entrepreneur in residence.
That meant that for six months, Crosspoint Venture Partners in Woodside, Calif., paid Mr. Bowles to scrutinize potential business plans and pick which company he might want to run next -- "quite a contrast" to his situation five years earlier, he said.
"We just sat around and talked about, 'Gee, wouldn't this be a cool business?' " Mr. Bowles said. Three months ago, he founded iBeam Broadcasting, an Internet satellite broadcasting company, with financing from Crossport.
Silicon Valley's frantic hunt for the new, cool and profitable has come to rely increasingly on executives like Mr. Bowles, who, between jobs, set up shop in venture capital firms and plan their next moves. Several venture capitalists say they regard the arrangement not only as a successful strategy but also as a crucial edge in the scramble for good investments.
The concept isn't new. Since the early 1980's, larger venture capital firms have brought in -- sometimes for as long as two years -- managers they regard as candidates to run a company. The firms introduce these entrepreneurs to potential investors, have them evaluate business plans and draw up their own.
Until two years ago, though, competition for such posts was so fierce that they were unpaid. The opportunity alone, said John Mumford, the managing director at Crosspoint, was something entrepreneurs "would just die to come do."
"They received no pay," he added, "and, in fact, they would have paid the v.c.'s to sit there and find the next golden nugget."
But Silicon Valley's arithmetic has shifted the balance of power. Awash in capital, many venture capital firms have more money to invest than can readily be soaked up by new, sure-fire companies. In one measure, Venture Economics, a research firm in Manhattan, said venture capital firms raised $10 billion in 1997; through just the first half of 1998, the firms raised $7 billion.
And in the second quarter, venture capital investments in the Valley alone were $1.24 billion, one-third of all venture funds spent nationally, according to a survey of 721 companies by PricewaterhouseCoopers.
AS capital has flooded in, the number of start-up deals has so accelerated that venture capital firms have been left begging for people to run the new companies.
Consequently, entrepreneurs in residence have become high-priced chief executives in waiting. According to those interviewed, they earn about $10,000 a month from the venture capital firms, a princely rate that Mr. Mumford calls "stupid" but which is paid partly to keep the entrepreneurs from going elsewhere.
The entrepreneurs face few rules or expectations. When they find a business plan they like, they don't even have an obligation to choose their sponsoring firm as an investment partner -- though almost all do.
Ultimately, the goal is to breed a group of loyal entrepreneurs who will return again and again to the venture capital firm to build their next companies and thus undercut the executive shortage.
"The talent pool has been very, very heavily diluted because of the amount of new companies being formed," said Steven Baloff, general partner of Advance Technology Ventures in Palo Alto, Calif. "Fifteen years ago, if your company failed, it was a black mark on your resume. Now venture capital firms almost prefer it. You've got your scars, and you've learned some hard lessons."
From the moment Chris Risley announced last year that he was resigning as chief executive of On Technology, a network management software company in Cambridge, Mass., venture capitalists on both coasts began calling him. He declined all offers, moved to Silicon Valley and spent three months vacationing throughout California with his wife, Susan, and son, Luke.
Finally, he became an entrepreneur in residence at Bessemer Venture Partners in Menlo Park, where he spent six months reading "several deal pitches a week." Two weeks ago, Mr. Risley joined Insite Innovations, a software start-up in Menlo Park, as its chief executive.
His transition, he said, might have been trickier without the entrepreneur-in-residence program. He said the most common mistake entrepreneurs make "is to send in a business plan in the hopes that someone will get excited and call them."
"In my experience, that never turns into a deal," he said. "You need a meeting to do a presentation, and for that, you need someone to refer you to a venture capitalist."
That need gives the entrepreneurs in residence a huge advantage. In turn, it also risks creating a fairly narrow circle of start-up executives.
As for Mr. Bowles, he could be set to become another of the Valley's most highly prized commodities: a start-up addict. Mr. Mumford of Crosspoint, who has backed both of Mr. Bowles's ventures, expects to see him again. "Mike will be back in our office starting a new company a year from now," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As an "entrepreneur in residence" at a venture capital firm, Chris Risley looked at many proposals before becoming chief of a software start-up. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: CROSSPOINT VENTURE PARTNERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); BUSINESS PLANS (89%); MODEMS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (66%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); 

PERSON: WALT, VIVIENNE MICHAEL BOWLES (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



527 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS;
Is the Other Brick About to Drop on Construction?

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
DO construction executives know something the rest of us don't?
Reasons for thinking that the present boom in construction has run its course are plentiful: 
 * So many professionals left the building trades during the last recession -- and so few young people are opting for careers in building now -- that builders find it hard to hire construction engineers, let alone welders or bricklayers.
* Cement and other building materials are in short supply, and prices are rising.
* Economic turmoil in Asia and Russia is stifling overseas demand, as project after project is halted or postponed, while the resulting financial-market gyrations provoke caution among American corporate customers.
And yet, across the country, construction executives are clicking their heels.
"Sure, some people are in trouble overseas, and some are facing shortages, but by and large, this industry is in really good shape," said Gary Tulacz, a senior editor at Engineering News Record, a construction trades journal.
For the moment, Mr. Tulacz may be right, but analysts are sounding alarm bells about the not-too-distant future. "Everyone is busy, but materials and people are really being stretched thin," warned Louis Taylor, senior real estate analyst at Prudential Securities.
Robert A. Murray, vice president of economic affairs for the F. W. Dodge unit of the McGraw-Hill Construction Information Group, predicted that total building activity would rise just 3 percent in 1998, compared with a 7 percent leap in 1997. "The industry is at cruising speed, but the strongest growth years are behind it," he said.
Asia's woes, meanwhile, may prove to be a double whammy for the American construction industry. The Fluor Daniel Inc. unit of the Fluor Corporation, whose revenue from telecommunications work has stalled at about $160 million a year because so many overseas projects are on hold, worries that hungry Asian contractors will start competing in the United States. "They're already bidding for work in Latin America," said Ron W. Oakley, president of Fluor Daniel's Infrastructure Operating Company.
Prices for cement, insulation and materials are inching up even though manufacturers have stepped up production. "There'll be a significant gap between supply and demand for the foreseeable future," said Edward Pile, a spokesman for the Lafarge Corporation, a large cement company.
The labor shortage is also likely to persist, warned Louis J. Coletti, chairman of the Building Trades Employers Association in New York, which recently joined forces with the local construction workers union to funnel high school graduates into apprentice programs. "The lack of a skilled work force has leaped out as the single biggest issue facing the construction industry in this country," he said.
With so many alarm bells clanging so loudly, why are construction executives feeling so good? For one thing, many say their exposure to trouble overseas is much smaller than a casual observer might think. Many projects scuttled by economic meltdowns in Asia and Russia were being handled by local contractors, while multinational companies like Merck, Exxon and Hoechst continue to hire American companies to design and build oil refineries, power stations and pharmaceutical plants -- and pay in dollars. "Our bookings are at an all-time high," said Richard J. Swift, chairman of Foster Wheeler, which gets two-thirds of its revenue overseas.
In the United States, Congress has authorized $217 billion for highway construction, and localities are floating many bonds that will pay for projects like new schools. "The government is going to be a huge source of growth for us," said Bradley S. Jacobs, chairman of United Rentals, which rents building equipment.
It will be a while before that money is disbursed, giving builders time to prepare. "Companies are already pulling kids out of Burger Kings and training them in construction," said Tobias M. Levkovich, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney.
Industry consolidation and modern communications have made it easier to shift people, equipment and even work where they are needed. United Rental has gobbled up local rental companies, adding to its fleets of cranes, compactors and other equipment. Fluor Daniel uses new engineering centers in New Delhi and Manila for work on American projects. "If you don't have people where the work is, you move the work to where the people are," said Ron Peterson, a Fluor Daniel group president.
Some makers of building materials, like Owens-Corning, are supplying United States projects from plants in China and Europe, while others, like Lafarge and Certainteed, are building or opening new plants.
The last time the industry roared like this was in the late 1980's, just before a recession brought new construction to a crawl. No one expects another such crash, but cautious notes are being sounded. "The telecommunications companies, the banks -- all are reassessing their needs," said Daniel R. Tishman, executive vice president of the Tishman Realty and Construction Company. Others say that such rethinking is occurring in just about every industry.
"Tremendous caution has welled up in executives who were positively ebullient a few months ago," said Thomas P. Falus, president of Cushman & Wakefield New York, a real estate firm owned by the Mitsubishi Estate Company. "They are not going to commit to a lot more space. And that has got to mean a damper on construction."

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "Topping Out"
Analysts think the recent building boom is due to stall. Figures are year-to-year changes based on dollar volume of new construction.
 
Residential
1997: +3.8%
1998: +6.0%
 
Commercial and manufacturing
1997: +9.6%
1998: +4.9%
 
Institutional
1997: +14.2%
1998: - 0.9%
 
Public works
1997: +5.9%
1998: -0.6%
 
(Source: McGraw-Hill Construction Information Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FLR (NYSE) (95%); ANR (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (95%); NAICS236210 INDUSTRIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (95%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (95%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (95%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (65%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (65%); SIC1222 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (65%); SIC1221 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (65%); NAICS327310 CEMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3241 CEMENT, HYDRAULIC (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FLUOR CORP (95%); MCGRAW-HILL CONSTRUCTION INFORMATION GROUP (67%); ALPHA NATURAL RESOURCES INC (65%); LAFARGE NORTH AMERICA INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); SHORTAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CONSTRUCTION (93%); CEMENT MFG (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); MASONRY CONTRACTORS (76%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (76%); CONSTRUCTION TRADE (76%); LABOR SHORTAGES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); TRENDS (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



528 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
The Have-Nots, at Least, Have Shelter in a Storm

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
INCOME inequality is taking on a new dimension these days. Not only have people's weekly earnings grown more disparate than in the past; what they possess -- their accumulated wealth -- has also grown more unequal lately. The haves and the have-nots, or more precisely those who have prospered and those who have stood still, are becoming easier to tell apart. Now the have-nots might get a break.
The haves in this race -- the hares, so to speak -- are the 25 to 30 percent of all American households that in the 1990's have become much wealthier than many ever anticipated. They are the families earning north of $75,000 a year, often far north. And while they own homes, they have invested most of their savings in the stock market, which boomed fabulously until midsummer. Their net worth, adjusted for inflation, has grown by nearly 20 percent since 1989. The least wealthy among them are worth more than $100,000, and the nest eggs go straight up from there. 
 The have-nots -- the tortoises -- are the mass of families earning less than $75,000 a year but more than $25,000, just enough to afford at least a semblance of middle-class life in much of the country. Their incomes, adjusted for inflation, have remained largely unchanged, despite a brief rise in 1989 and another one now.
These families' biggest investments are their homes, which rose smartly in value in the 1970's and 1980's, often outpacing the stock market, and net worth grew in tandem. The 1990's have been an entirely different experience for these families: For the first time, their net worth shrank; it has made only a partial recovery since 1995.
"The story is that the assets of these families, mainly housing, were not the big winners of the 1990's," said Edward N. Wolff, an economist at New York University.
In the children's story of the tortoise and the hare, the steady tortoise wins the footrace. But the odds of a tortoise victory in the net-worth race are remote, although the tortoise has closed the gap slightly. A victory would require that housing prices, employment and earnings all hold up as the national economy slows or falls into a recession brought on by the spreading Asian crisis. Stock prices would have to fall simultaneously, far more than they already have. By some estimates, the Dow Jones industrial average would have to drop to 5,500 or below for the tortoise to edge out the hare.
"For a long time, housing wealth has been more equally distributed than stocks and most kinds of other financial wealth," said James M. Poterba, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "If house prices rise and stock prices fall, that translates into more equalization."
Most of the new information on household wealth comes from Mr. Wolff, who has analyzed data collected by the Federal Reserve through 1995 and has calculated projections for 1996 and 1997. The Economic Policy Institute has provided additional information.
Most economists agree with Mr. Wolff's findings, although some question his definition of wealth. Mr. Wolff, for example, includes 401(k) plans and similar retirement accounts, but he excludes Social Security, most company-paid pension plans, and "things" -- the appliances, furniture and cars, for example, that families own. Counting these would raise estimates of the wealth of the less affluent.
BY Mr. Wolff's calculation, the median wealth in America (the level at which half of all households have more, and half less) rose to $54,600 in 1989, from $51,000 in 1983 and $36,200 in 1962. But it fell from the 1989 peak to $45,600 in 1995, and then rebounded part way, to $49,900, last year. (All these figures are adjusted to 1995 price levels.)
The reasons for the decline are clear enough: Home prices have risen, particularly since 1996, but mortgage debt and home equity loans have risen faster, diluting net worth.
Consumer spending has risen faster than earnings, forcing middle-level families to borrow or cut into liquid savings, which they hold mostly in bank accounts. Many more Americans own stock today than in the past, and this is billed as evidence that the benefits of a rising stock market are spreading across the population. But in fact, the vast majority of shareholders have less than $10,000 apiece in stock and mutual funds.
So the tortoises have actually lost wealth during the economic expansion of the 1990's, now perhaps ending. If wealth is a buffer against job loss, the tortoises are less secure than they were in 1989. And if political clout and campaign contributions are linked, then the growing wealth of the upper 25 percent of households has made them even more politically powerful.
But there is a silver lining, or a gray one. "If the market continues to take a hit, that will demoralize wealthy Americans more than the less affluent," said Daniel Yankelovich, chairman of DYG, a polling firm. The latter "are used to seeing their wealth decrease, and won't feel as bad."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); FAMILY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HOME PRICES (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (88%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (85%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); RECESSION (73%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); TRENDS (67%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS EDWARD N WOLFF (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



529 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/James H. Gipson;
Clipper Fund

BYLINE: By WILLIAM R. LONG 

 BODY:
AS stock indexes climbed to record highs during the first half of the year, many managers of stock mutual funds were throwing most every dollar they had into the market. Not James H. Gipson, founder and lead manager of the Clipper Fund. By mid-July, he had a fat 44 percent of his portfolio in cash and Treasury bonds, with the balance in just 17 stocks.
Investors were not happy, said Mr. Gipson, recalling snippy letters from shareholders. One, he remembered, said something like this: "If I wanted my money in cash, I would have put it in the bank." 
 With the summer selloff in stocks, cash suddenly looked great, and so did Clipper, which lost far less than the market over all. And the fund now has a bundle of cash on hand for bargain-hunting.
"I think you will find that we did an exceptionally good job of capital preservation during a difficult period," he said.
He's right. From July 17, when the market peaked, through Sept. 11, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slumped by 17.2 percent. The average large-capitalization value fund lost 17.4 percent over that period, according to Morningstar Inc., the Chicago financial publisher. Mr. Gipson's fund, with $960.1 million in assets, lost just 7.2 percent.
Since its inception in early 1984, Clipper has returned 17 percent annually, on average, just ahead of the S.& P. and substantially better than the 13.5 percent of the average large-cap value fund.
MR. GIPSON founded Clipper's adviser, Pacific Financial Research of Beverly Hills, Calif., in 1980, to manage institutional portfolios. Last year, he and four minority partners sold Pacific Financial to United Asset Management, "in part for personal reasons but also for the same reason that we've been selling stocks in the portfolio," he said. "We found the market was generously valued and we decided to take some money off the table."
He has a contract to continue running the firm for seven years, as do his co-managers, Michael C. Sandler and Bruce Veaco.
Mr. Gipson buys a company's stock only when it is priced at least 30 percent below its so-called intrinsic value, the amount a company is estimated to be worth to a private buyer, and typically sells when it hits that value. For the last two years or so, the fund found few stocks that met its standards, and its cash position grew.
Since the market correction began in July, however, the number of stocks in Clipper has risen to 23, while cash has fallen to less than 40 percent. "We have shifted from being holders of sizable cash to being patient buyers" of stocks, Mr. Gipson said.
Not that the fund's concentration bothers him. Last week, Mr. Gipson rolled out a more concentrated and equity-heavy version of the fund, UAM Clipper Focus, which invests in the same stocks but holds no more than 5 percent in cash.
Clipper uses a variety of models in putting a price tag on companies, a process that helps set Mr. Gipson apart from other value investors. "There's a large segment of value investors who use a simple mechanical approach to determining value," he said, citing price-to-earnings ratios, price-to-book ratios and high dividend yield as examples. He said an advocate of such a strategy could be considered "a first-generation value investor, who uses the same valuation approach for each kind of company."
He calls his team of seven analyst-managers "second-generation value investors," because they try to value each company in the way a private buyer would in bidding for the company, tailoring the analysis to the nature of the business.
In valuing a media company, for example, relevant benchmarks may be price to cash flow or price per subscriber, but not book value, he said. "On the other hand, book value does have a sizable element of relevance if you're looking at a bank or an insurance company or a security broker."
For giant companies like Coca-Cola or Philip Morris, it may be more difficult to establish intrinsic value, so he relies heavily on a model of discounted free cash flow. He takes his 10-year estimate of a company's free cash flow -- cash after capital and other expenditures -- and discounts it by the return of a 30-year Treasury bond (now 5.14 percent) and then by a "risk premium" that varies with each company (say, 2 percent for Coca-Cola, a company seen as having little risk, and 4 percent for Philip Morris).
Mr. Gipson then compares the company's intrinsic value with the price of its stock. "If we can buy the company at 70 percent or less of its intrinsic value, then that company would become a good candidate," he said.
"You have to make sure that you buy stocks with a margin of safety," he added.
Mr. Gipson looks for opportunities company by company, with no preference for any economic sector or industry. Currently, he said, "we are finding some reasonable opportunities in specialty chemical companies." But he declined to identify the stocks because he was still buying them.
In recent months, the fund has been heavily weighted in the financial area because of large positions in the Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, the Government-sponsored mortgage enterprises; each is about 9 percent of the portfolio.
"They are two very good companies who share a market niche that is highly profitable and well protected from competition," Mr. Gipson said. Fannie Mae closed at $63.375 on Friday; he estimates its intrinsic value at $82. Freddie Mac trades at $47.125; he puts its intrinsic value at $60.
The biggest position in Clipper, nearly 12 percent of assets, is Philip Morris. "We had a smaller position going into the spring of this year, when the concern about both litigation and legislation reached a crescendo," he said. He bought more Philip Morris, in the $36-to-$39 range, in mid-May. "That was an example of being a contrarian value investor, buying on bad news," he said. The stock has climbed to $46.25, even as the market has fallen.
"The prime reason it's cheap is concern over litigation and legislation" on domestic tobacco, he said. "But there's more to Philip Morris than domestic tobacco. They have a very good food business and a great international tobacco business."
Mr. Gipson estimates the company's intrinsic value at $70 a share, but he is in no hurry to see it reach that point. "We're quite happy to sit and wait, with the 4 percent dividend yield," he said.
And he is not afraid to venture abroad. In recent months, Clipper added to a small position in De Beers Consolidated Mines, the South African diamond giant. He recently paid between $12 and $15 for its American depository receipts, which have fallen by nearly half from their April high on concern about plummeting diamond sales in Asia. The A.D.R.'s trade at $14.3125; Mr. Gipson puts the intrinsic value at $30.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James H. Gipson, founder and lead manager of the Clipper Fund, has a bundle of cash on hand for bargain-hunting. (Marissa Roth for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Clipper Fund"
Category: Large value
Net assets: $960.1 million
Inception February: 1984
Lead manager: James H. Gipson, since Feb. 1984
Minimum purchase: $5,000 ($2,000 I.R.A.)
Portfolio turnover: 31%
Annualized return from inception through Sept. 11: 17.0%
Category average: 13.5%
 
Sector breakdown
 
Retail: 19.0%
Consumer durables: 6.5%
Other: 6.3%
Financial: 38.5%
Consumer staples: 29.7%
 
Fees
Front-end load: None
Deferred load: None
12b-1 fee: None
Expense ratio: 1.08%
 
(Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (68%); BARROW HANLEY MEWHINNEY & STRAUSS INC (54%); UNITED ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (53%); CLIPPER FUND (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLIPPER FUND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); 

PERSON: LONG, WILLIAM R; GIPSON, JAMES H

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



530 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2453 words

HEADLINE: Talking the Tawk;
New Yorkers Are Sounding More Like Everybody Else. Is It Curtains for the Accent People Love to Hate?

BYLINE: By BERNARD STAMLER

 BODY:
IT'S loud, it's fast and when some of its more famous speakers -- like Fran Drescher ("The Nanny") and Joe Pesci ("My Cousin Vinny") use it, you know exactly where they're coming from. It's New York ese, the mother tongue of millions of city dwellers and of expatriates who have taken it to Long Island, New Jersey and beyond.
But though plenty of people in and around the city sound more Co-op City or Greenpoint than, say, Kansas City or Greenwich, some experts on language believe that well-known elements of the distinctive New York accent are fading away. Shamed by the scorn of outsiders and tamed by the colorless, dulcet tones of national television and radio announcers, New Yorkers just don't talk the way they used to. In fact, some experts say, they're sounding more like everybody else. 
 "New York accents aren't so extreme anymore," said Robert Hendrickson, an author of numerous books on regional speech including the forthcoming "New Yawk Tawk: A Dictionary of New York City Expressions" (Facts on File). "Strong accents still exist, but they are more common among older people."
William Stewart, a professor of linguistics at the City University Graduate Center, agreed. New York ways of speaking are "either being dropped or incorporated into the language as a whole," he said. But regional variations in speech are becoming less noticeable all over the country, he and other linguists said, because of mass communication, increased mobility, different immigration patterns and more people moving up the social ladder and dropping their accents along the way.
In the future, said George Jochnowitz, a professor of linguistics at the College of Staten Island, "the big differences will not be regional, but ethnic and educational."
But while New Yorkese is changing along with other regional modes of speech, many of its distinct characteristics remain, he said. "Stigmatized features are less than they were, but a lot of the more subtle things are as strong as ever," like the pronunciation of bad as "bay-ed," Professor Jochnowitz said.
And enclaves of traditional New Yorkese still exist in the metropolitan region, mostly in Brooklyn and Staten Island and on Long Island, where many sons and daughters of the city moved after World War II, Professor Stewart said. "Staten Island," Professor Jochnowitz noted, "is the last and best holdout in the city of the New York accent."
Born of the confluence of many linguistic streams -- the languages of the Dutch, the English, the Irish, the Italians and European Jews are but a few of them -- New Yorkese has always had a decidedly down-market image. Sure, those who live beyond the Hudson love to laugh with Woody Allen when he jokes in his Noo Yawk voice, but would they want their children to talk that way? New Yorkese is the language Americans love to hate, widely seen as an exemplar of ignorance, a "dese and dem" dialect for dummies. And so it has been for years, especially after talking pictures became popular and during World War II, when the Bowery Boys and Brooklyn's G.I. Joes put the corner of "Toity-toid and Toid" on the national map, according to John Singler, chairman of the linguistics department at New York University.
New Yorkers, of course, do not as a general rule care about what others believe. "I think that it's the rest of the country that has an accent," said comedian Jackie Mason, who was raised on the Lower East Side. "In New York, anyone who talks like an American sounds like a foreigner."
The writer Jimmy Breslin, a native of Queens, defends New York speech as an essential part of the city's character. "Anything that made the place different is what made it what it is," he said. "If you're going to homogenize it, you make it no good."
But these champions of New York-speak appear to be in the minority. "New York is the most extreme case of local speech having low local esteem that I know," said William Labov, a linguistics professor at the University of Pennsylvania who has done extensive research on New York speech. "Every time you put a microphone in front of New Yorkers, they try to change the way they talk."
It's no wonder that there are 28 listings for voice and diction coaches in the Manhattan Yellow Pages. Their clients -- and the countless others who try to shed the New Yorkiness of their speech on their own -- embrace what Sam Chwat (pronounced shwa), a Manhattan speech therapist who has coached Robert De Niro, Kathleen Turner, Julia Roberts and other actors, calls "standard American English," an "educated-sounding" form of speech that, as Mr. Chwat put it, "makes you sound like you're from nowhere."
That's what Patricia Allaire, a Brooklyn native who lives in Flushing, Queens, wanted when she went to see Mr. Chwat last year. She didn't think she had much of an accent, she said, "but the moment I stepped out of the city, people began to notice, and to make fun of me." Professor Allaire, an assistant professor of mathematics at Queensborough Community College in Bayside, frequently speaks at professional conferences outside the city. And she found, to her dismay, that people often thought her New York accent was a joke.
"I think it's hard to be taken seriously if you sound like you're from New York," she said, recalling one time when she and a colleague were teased so mercilessly about their speech that they gave up any attempt at a serious presentation, put baseball caps on backward and made fun of themselves to the appreciative crowd.
Last summer, her speech therapy completed, Professor Allaire spent two weeks at a conference in Washington. "And nobody asked me if I was from New York," she said.
The peculiarities of the classic New York accent are well known, and the city's many ethnic groups can all claim the credit -- or the blame -- for some of its features, such as the reversal of the "oi" and "er" sounds, resulting in such bons mots as "terlet" for "toilet," "goil" for "girl" and "Greenpernt" for a certain part of Brooklyn, as well as the stress on the "aw" sound in words like "hawk" and "talk," all of which Mr. Chwat, the speech therapist, believes to be of Irish origin. The transformation of "th" to "t" (as when "with" becomes "wit") or to "d" (as in "my muddah and faddah"), is said to be typical of both Irish and Italian New York speech.
Jewish speakers are more likely to have a nasal "a" -- think of O. J. Simpson's erstwhile lawyer, Barry Scheck -- or to use a singsong cadence, like former Mayor Edward I. Koch's.
Speakers of Hispanic origin, like the actress Rosie Perez, often confuse the "z" and "s" sounds and sometimes drop the ends of words, though language experts say Spanglish, the combination of English and Spanish spoken by many people of Hispanic origin, is a national linguistic phenomenon.
Black New Yorkers may say "v" or "f" for "th" in words like "bathroom" or drop the plural and possessive "s," but these speech characteristics reflect black speech patterns across the country, Professor Stewart said. One reason for this, he said, may be the influence of segregation, which limited the interaction of black people with those from other other ethnic groups and encouraged the growth of separate speech dialects.
Still, whatever their ethnic heritage, many native New Yorkers use "cha" and "ja" in places Webster never intended. (Didja or didn'cha know that?)
Then there's the "r" sound. New Yorkers of various backgrounds often insert a gratuitous "r" into words, turning "law" into "lore," for example. And they drop the "r" from words where it belongs, which many Bostonians also do. "Heart" becomes "hot"; "super becomes "soopah"; "her becomes "huh." But Professor Jochnowitz, for one, believes that "r-lessness" is becoming milder. "By and large you hear it less," he said.
Change in language is inevitable, of course. Linguists say influences wax and wane, and so does the perceived prestige of differing forms of speech. Indeed, as anyone who's ever seen "My Fair Lady" knows, language is very much about class and other social differences.
New York dialect was always an underclass form of speech, according to Professor Labov, who said speakers often abandon it when they rise in social station. And, he said, attitudes about "prestige speech" filter down from the upper to the lower classes.
Back in the 1960's, Professor Labov, then at Columbia University, did one of the first studies to show that classic New Yorkese was linked to lower socioeconomic status. He figured that the correct use of the "r" sound would be a good indicator of social position. In other words, the higher people's social class, the more likely they would be to use the "r" conventionally.
The professor went to three department stores -- Saks, Macy's and the now-defunct S. Klein -- each catering to a different socioeconomic group, and asked employees for the location of a department he knew to be on the fourth floor. Sure enough, he soon discovered that that the clerks serving the more affluent shoppers in upscale Saks said "fawth flaw" far less frequently than their peers at bargain-basement Klein's, with Macy's somewhere in the middle. A 1986 study using the same methodology (substituting the now-gone J. W. May's for Klein's) confirmed that the trend still existed, and it almost certainly continues today, Professor Labov said.
But what of the words, the expressions and the cadences that, along with accent, gave a unique flavor to the way New Yorkers talk? If more people these days choose not to speak New Yorkese because they think it lacks dignity, can the city's classic vernacular -- the language of Damon Runyon ("guys and dolls"), Leo Durocher ("nice guys finish last") and Jimmy Durante (the "schnozzola") -- survive? To use a New Yorkism, that is the $64 question.
While people in this hurried city still talk a lot faster than those in most other places, their lexicon may seem less exotic. "Many of the older phrases are dying out," said Mr. Hendrickson, while other characteristic expressions -- "all right, already," for example, and "oh, yeah?" -- have been adopted by the country as a whole. Still, he said, "there are always new terms appearing."
One of them, which he attributes to Mr. Breslin, is the "Howard Beach wait," used to describe the pause people in the Howard Beach neighborhood have to make about every 20 seconds during telephone conversations because of jet planes thundering overhead on their way to and from nearby John F. Kennedy International Airport. Then there are "unshushable," Jerry Seinfeld's term, derived from Yiddish, for those in a movie theater who just never shut up, and "on the arm," meaning free of charge, usually said by police officers.
Over the years, lingo has also been coined by immigrants who have flocked to the city. For example, Mr. Hendrickson believes that use of the Spanish "bodega" for "grocery store" is of New York origin. But like many of the Spanish imports into the English language ("taco," say, and "loco"), it is used in many places across the United States, not just New York.
Mr. Chwat is among those who think New Yorkese will endure in one form or another. Though he agrees that people try to shake their accents as they assimilate in society and rise in economic status -- such people are his customers, after all -- he maintains that "there will always be ethnic neighborhoods and ethnic groups" that prize the peculiarities of their speech "and actually penalize members socially for speaking standard English."
As Professor Jochnowitz sees it, New Yorkese is moving toward standardization along with other regional speech variations, "but that doesn't mean it's ever going to get there." Sometimes, he says, "new things happen you don't expect."
So "dog" will never rhyme with "log" in New York, as it apparently does elsewhere?
"Fuhgeddaboutit," Mr. Chwat said.
 
How Tony Is the Department Store?
Find the Answer on the Fourth Floor
Language is a fluid thing, changing all the time. Words that may once have been slang become part of the mainstream, and preferred pronunciations go in and out of vogue.
For example, in New York City, so-called "r-lessness" (saying "cahd" for card and "bah" for "bar") is widely seen these days as a lower-class phenomenon, a mark of improper speech. But that was not always so. Earlier in this century, patrician New Yorkers like Franklin D. Roosevelt wouldn't have dreamed of pronouncing their r's.
This change in so-called "prestige pronunciation" occurred after World War II, and in 1962, William Labov, then a Columbia linguistics professor, began researching it. At the time, he theorized that affluent New Yorkers would be more attuned to the change in acceptability of r-less speech and more inclined to pronounce their r's than people with lower socioeconomic status. And in his 1966 study of the speech of sales clerks at three department stores catering to different socioeconomic groups, he indeed found that the more upscale the store, the more likely its employees were to use what was seen as the correct pronunciation.
In 1986, Joy Fowler, a graduate student at New York University, replicated the department store store study, discovering a similar relative distribution of r-lessness in New York stores, although fewer people overall dropped their r's.
But what about today? Does the pattern still persist? Based on my unscientific, undersampled and anecdotal survey, it looks as if Professor Labov's finding still holds: If ya got class, ya say "r."
I went first to Bradlees, the discount store on 14th Street, in the space formerly occupied by May's, the low-end emporium Ms. Fowler used in her study. When asked for the location of the toy department, almost all of the dozen cashiers and clerks I spoke to there said "fawth flaw." A couple said "fourth flaw"; one said "fawth floor."
At Macy's Herald Square, which both Professor Labov and Ms. Fowler used as their middle-class example, nearly all of the dozen or so employees responding to my questions regarding the location of the men's room offered a perfectly pronounced "fourth floor." Only one, a woman at the information desk, gave me "fawth floor."
On to Saks, where I had to ask about either women's clothing or women's shoes to get a pronunciation of "fourth floor." The responses I got would surely have gladdened Professor Labov: Of the 10 people I asked, every one enunciated perfectly when directing me to the fourth floor.
Everyone, that is, except for a woman working the information desk near the elevators. "Faarth flaar," she intoned, in what seemed to me to be some sort of a Slavic accent.
But even she got her r's right. BERNARD STAMLER

GRAPHIC: Photo: What do all these people have in common? When they open their mouths, New York is right there. Top row, left to right: Ed Koch, Fran Drescher, Barry Scheck, Woody Allen. Bottom row, left to right: Jimmy Breslin, Joe Pesci, Jackie Mason, Rosie Perez. (Top row: Dith Pran/The New York Times; Associated Press; Librado Romero/The New York Times; Brian Hamill; Bottom row: Associated Press; Warner Brothers; Steve J. Sherman; Ken Regan/HBO)(pg. 11)
 
Chart: "LINGO: You Say Toemahtoe, I Say Tamahter"
"No dialect these days winds more gently through my ears than New York talk," writes Robert Hendrickson, the author of several dictionaries of regional expressions and a volume of New Yorkisms being published next month. Here are some excerpts from "New Yawk Tawk: A Dictionary of New York City Expressions" (Checkmark Books, an imprint of Facts on File):
 
BLACK ROCK -- A nickname for the black-colored CBS building at 53d Street and Sixth Avenue in Manhattan. The name, also applied to the television network itself, is said to have been suggested by the film "A Bad Day at Black Rock" (1953). In the trade NBC is called 30 Rock, from its address at Rockefeller Center, and ABC is called Hard Rock.
 
ERSTER -- A pronunciation heard in New York for oyster. "The poil was in the erster."
 
FAMILY HAMMER -- A hit man or assassin for a Mafia family.
 
HIT IN THE KISHKAS -- To hit someone in the stomach. Kishka is Russian for intestines. The word came to describe a sausage-like food of the Jewish cookery and finally suggested the Yiddish experssion above.
 
JEET -- An amazing condensation of "did you eat" that would make a Reader's Digest editor proud. "Jeet jet? Les gedda frank."
 
NO PROBLEM -- The modest New York way of saying "You're welcome." Who says New Yorkers don't got manners?
 
OFFUH YUH -- From you, off of you, as in "I wanna borra $10 offuh yuh." The expression has been around for at least 100 years and has a number of variations, including offa ya.
 
OH YEAH? -- Still a common feature of New York speech. "In his routine chatter," as the Federal Writer's Project "New York Panorama" (1938) put it, "the New Yorker cannot get along without his oh yea? It is his most valuable buffer, knout, pacifier and bubble-pipe, a necessary protective lubricant in the daily wear and tear of life."
 
OIM OWAN DA TOITY-TOID FLOHWAH OF DA NOO YWAK STADLA -- CAN OI HABA CUPPA KOWAFEE AN A GLAZZA WATTA -- "I'm on the thirty-third floor of the New York Statler -- can I have a cup of coffee and a glass of water." In a "Best New York Accent in Houston" contest held some 10 years ago, contestants had to give the proper New York pronunciation of the room service order. Former Brooklynite John Occhiogrosso won the grand prize expense-paid trip to Brooklyn with the above. When asked about job discrimination he had experienced because of his accent the winner mused (in translation), "If people don't like me for what I am, the hell with them -- that's the Brooklyn way."
 
ON LINE -- New Yorkers stand on line, not in line as other Americans do. Those of school age, however, are kept in line, or orderly, by their teachers while on line in the schoolyard. And once people are on line in New York, they ideally stay in line.
 
SLICE -- Usually used by New Yorkers as shorthand for a slice-a (piece of) pizza when ordering New York's favorite fast food in a pizza parlor: "Gimme a slice anna small coke." Whether it's a square cut of thick Sicilian or pie slice-shaped regular (Neapolitan) pizza, it's always a slice. When a whole pizza is ordered it's "Gimme a pie." Piece is rarely heard.
 
ZHLUB -- Zhlub during the past 25 years or so has been slang for an insensitive, boorish person. It derives from the Yiddish zhlub, meaning the same, which, in turn, comes from a Slavic word. A variation is zhlob.
 
Illustrations (James Yang)(pg. 1 & 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Glossary

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (57%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (57%); CO-OP '82 UA (57%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (57%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (57%); CO-OP STAR RT (57%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (57%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (57%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (57%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (57%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (57%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); LINGUISTICS (89%); CITIES (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); WRITERS (67%); WORLD WAR II (50%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



531 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2818 words

HEADLINE: Spreading Global Risk To American Taxpayers

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
AS gyrations in emerging markets -- from Asia to Latin America to Russia -- cause sleepless nights for many investors, one group of politically connected and well-heeled financiers with big bets in these shaky regions can sleep better, thanks to the American taxpayer.
These well-rested folks are among the investors who have poured $3.2 billion into emerging-market funds sponsored by the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, a little-known Government agency that mixes private capital with Government guarantees to promote American foreign policy goals. OPIC's investment flag is now planted in 140 developing countries -- from obscure spots like Moldova and Botswana to nations at the center of today's global turmoil. No matter where it goes, though, OPIC has used the promise of eye-popping returns and the protection of Government guarantees to attract American investors to far-flung spots. 
 As capitalism has spread, so has the program. With direct foreign-aid dollars dropping in the last few years, OPIC's investment funds have become a leading tool in the Clinton Administration's efforts to get fresh capital -- quickly -- to emerging democracies. When President Clinton took office, there were just two OPIC funds, one in Africa and one in Asia, with combined capital of $100 million. Today, an assembly line of OPIC funds is churning in Washington: At last count, the number has risen to 26, with roughly two-thirds of the money coming from Government-guaranteed notes and the rest from institutional equity investors. By year's end, the OPIC program should swell to $4 billion.
However noble the foreign-policy goals, OPIC is making big bets with taxpayer dollars that its investment formula will pay off either politically or financially -- something that critics are questioning.
The funds buy stakes in emerging-market businesses. They are structured so that private investors -- typically large corporations and pension funds -- can invest with limited exposure to downside risk and, if their investments work out as expected, reap enormous gains. On the other hand, should every investment in all 26 OPIC funds fail, taxpayers would be on the hook for $3.3 billion in interest and principal on the notes.
OPIC has spread itslargess to many people with Government ties; the ranks of the funds' managers include leading campaign donors and former Government officials.
But a growing chorus of critics say OPIC funds often replicate what many in the private sector are already doing -- without Government protection -- and encourage excessive risks at taxpayer peril.
And to the frustration of many, OPIC runs its fund program almost exclusively behind closed doors, seeing no need to make financial details about the funds public, even though it is a Government agency.
"OPIC is gambling in Las Vegas with someone else's money," said James Sheehan, a researcher at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, an economic research group in Washington. "This is a subsidy for risk-taking. If these investment funds were based on the financial merits of the investments, you would not need subsidies to make them happen."
OPIC's point of view is that it is guilty as charged and proud of it. The whole point of the program -- which is modeled, very roughly, after successful domestic venture funds like Kohlberg Kravis Roberts -- is to encourage investors to go where they otherwise fear to tread and to stimulate economic development on unfamiliar turf.
"OPIC is trying to induce investors to do things they are not willing to do on their own," said Robert D. Stillman, a private investor who, until last April, headed the OPIC investment fund program. "If investors are not willing to put money into Eastern Europe, we will make it attractive. We're encouraging capitalism where the U.S. has a foreign-policy interest and getting investors comfortable with these places."
OPIC funds are closed-end limited partnerships intended to build on private-sector market discipline -- and capital. Each fund has slightly different objectives and different investors. Each is required to invest in companies overseas that either do not compete directly with American businesses or that help American companies. As in other venture capital funds, the money is invested for 5 to 10 years.
Right now, all eyes are on Russia. OPIC funds have committed a total of $1.5 billion to the former Soviet republics, nearly half the program's investment kitty. Eleven OPIC funds are now in this region, to the dismay of some. "It is the wrong policy to be channeling funds into those countries where their economic policies are not correct," said Ian Vasquez, a director of economic policy at the Cato Institute, a research group in Washington. "We are rewarding governments for not undertaking reforms."
But Robert Peyton, manager of Agribusiness Partners International, a $100 million OPIC fund with seven Russian investments, said the OPIC guarantee is important to him -- now more than ever.
"I just got back from Russia, and we are in fundamentally sound businesses," said Mr. Peyton, whose fund has invested in a soft-drink bottler in Moscow, a sparkling-wine plant in Georgia, dairies in Moldova and Ukraine, and Russian cheese and poultry plants. "If the politicians can hold the country, we'll be O.K. Our investors are glad OPIC is there. If the Russian economy survives, these investments will turn out to be good. Today the OPIC guarantee is more important than three months ago."
Charles D. Toy, vice president of OPIC's investment fund program, said it was too early to assess any damage. Because OPIC funds have long-term investing goals, the final reckoning is as much as a decade away. Currently, Mr. Toy said, taxpayer exposure from OPIC's Russian debt is about $400 million, because not all the money raised for these funds has been invested yet.
"It's a delicate situation," Mr. Toy said. "The impact of the market turbulence is that we will be more selective. Clearly, this shows why OPIC is needed. If you want to continue to encourage foreign direct investment as the vehicle for economic reform in any particular country and there is perceived political risk, we have to support and enhance returns to encourage private sector equity to be put at play."
Those assurances emboldened the managers of Allied Capital International Small Business, at $20 million the smallest OPIC fund. It has put money into small businesses including a pasta plant and a cannery in rural Hungary and a paging company in Brazil. If all goes well, the big payoff for investors will come in 7 to 10 years, when the businesses are sold or taken public.
"We wanted to do business overseas, but we didn't want to bet the bank on it," said Cabell Williams 3d, president of Allied Capital, a Washington-based private equity firm with $650 million in assets under management. "Our investments so far have been terrific. We will have a phenomenal return. We'll make a bloody fortune. Private capital won't go to some of these places; it's too risky. Who is going to go to Botswana and invest money? You clearly need a 50 percent return to go there."
While OPIC doesn't promise 50 percent returns, it readily suggests that investors can expect 25 to 35 percent annual returns; such boasts can be made because the funds are not registered securities. A recent solicitation memorandum issued by the United States Embassy in Tbilisi, Georgia, for a Caucasus region fund talked of returns in the range of "25 percent plus."
For every dollar of equity raised from investors -- a group that has included Archer Daniels Midland, the Coca-Cola Export Corporation, Citicorp and Continental Casualty -- OPIC typically provides a match of $2 in Government-guaranteed notes, backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Some OPIC notes are bought by the funds' equity investors as a way of hedging their bets; any losses on their equity investment can be cushioned by gains on their OPIC notes. (Of course, some equity investors buy no OPIC debt at all.) Other buyers of OPIC notes are banks and insurance companies that are simply interested in owning Government agency debt.
Whatever the motivation of the note buyers, OPIC debt serves another important purpose: to bolster returns to the equity investors. In, say, a $300 million fund made up of $100 million in equity from institutional investors and $200 million in OPIC notes, nearly all the fund's earning power goes to the equity investors. This means that their returns are far greater than what $100 million alone could have earned. Only a small portion of the profits pays interest on the notes -- which generally carry a coupon rate about 50 basis points above that of Treasury notes.
NOT surprisingly, the OPIC guarantee is a powerful lure. "There is no chance we would have thought about any of these investment funds without an OPIC guarantee," said Stanley Zax, chairman of the Zenith Insurance Company in Woodland Hills, Calif. Zenith has invested in OPIC funds in Poland, Southeast Asia and Israel. "The fact of the matter is you have OPIC protecting the debt, which is two-thirds of the fund, and then you are getting the extra venture capital leverage of that debt. Without it, there was too much volatility in those markets."
Politics course through OPIC's fund program, traceable not only in the selections of countries to receive investment funds but, often, in links to the fund managers receiving lucrative contracts.
The enthusiasm with which the Administration has embraced the program is evidenced by the high visibility given to it by President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore: a West Bank fund announced at a 1996 White House meeting with Yasir Arafat, for example, and $750 million pledged for two sub-Saharan Africa funds during the President's highly publicized tour in Africa this year and a $120 million South Africa fund announced at a White House meeting in 1996.
But domestic politics gets OPIC's attention, too. Critics say there is a disturbing relationship between OPIC and major Democratic Party donors, often people who attended White House coffees or slept in the Lincoln Bedroom. Six funds valued at $585 million were approved in the election year of 1996 shortly after sponsors of four of them had attended White House coffees.
"This program exploded just after the Clinton Administration came into office," said Paul Hendrie, communications director of the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit research group in Washington. "And a large percentage of them are going to people with strong political connections or who made big contributions to Democrats in the last election."
Among those are David Bonderman, a Texas investor with stakes in two OPIC funds who gave $140,000 to the Democrats in 1996. His business partner, Richard Blum, is a leading Democratic fund-raiser and the husband of Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California.
Mr. Bonderman's investment firm was also named manager of the $300 million Aqua International Partners fund, which has hired William Reilly, director of the Environmental Protection Agency in the Bush Administration, as its hands-on manager. Like all OPIC fund managers, Mr. Bonderman's firm will get a management fee equal to 2.5 percent of the fund's assets and 20 percent of the ultimate profits, which can run into the tens of millions.
The big contributors also included the New York investor Dirk Ziff, who, with his brother, gave $400,000 to the Democrats in 1996 and manages the $150 million South Asia Capital fund. Alan J. Patricof, a New York venture capitalist who gave $140,000 to the Democrats in 1996 and raised $600,000 more, is manager of OPIC's $40 million Israel Growth fund. And Maurice Greenberg, a leading Democratic donor, is chairman of the AIG Group, an insurance company that gave Democrats $245,000 and $213,000 to Republicans in 1996. That year, AIG was named manager of the $300 million AIG Brunswick Millennium fund, which has $30 million of AIG money in it.
Mr. Toy, the OPIC vice president, said politics plays no role in the selection of fund managers, who are picked by OPIC after a solicitation and competitive review. "OPIC fund managers have to be sophisticated world players," he said. "Therefore, it comes as no surprise that many OPIC managers have acquaintances with people in government. But our final decisions are economic. No institutional investor puts $10 million to $12 million in a fund on the basis of who the fund manager knows."
Still, for all its Government ties, OPIC is loath to disclose financial information to anyone but fund investors. It will not identify to outsiders the funds' investments or institutional investors, the rates of return or any fund's current net asset value. This C.I.A.-like secrecy has frustrated even members of Congress.
"Getting information from them is like pulling teeth," said Shawn C. McBurney, assistant to Representative Ed Royce, a California Republican who is chairman of OPIC's oversight panel. "They dodge a lot and are not forthcoming. We can't get any information about this little agency that exposes the American taxpayer to enormous risk off in a corner of Government."
In fact, OPIC prides itself on being more like a private company than the Government agency it is. "As a public agency, we are charged with transparency," said Mr. Stillman, the former OPIC fund director. "But we have to attract private capital, and private investors don't want to disclose what they are investing in."
THE shards of information available, however, from interviews and some sites on the World Wide Web, show that some OPIC funds do what private investors are already doing -- sometimes with the same fund managers. And this raises questions of why an OPIC guarantee is even needed.
Consider Newbridge Andean Partners, a $160 million OPIC fund investing in Colombia, Venezuela, Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia. To date, the fund has invested in a cable television venture and a gas distribution network in Venezuela. But it has also put $6 million into bonds of a financially troubled Argentine maker of Nike and Converse shoes, which is being restructured by a non-OPIC sister fund, Newbridge Latin America, owner of $80 million of its bonds.
Investor interest was so strong in a $180 million OPIC fund, South America Private Equity Growth, that the fund's manager set up a second, $37 million fund to make the same investments, but without OPIC guarantees. And when OPIC set up its Russian ventures, at least 28 other venture capital funds were also putting money there.
While some had ties to other United States and European government agencies, several were out-and-out private ventures, including those run by AT&T and General Motors pension funds. Junction Investors, a Boston-based group managing the $92 million Caucasus Fund, has had funds in the Caucasus and Russia going back to the early 1990's. And New Century Holdings, which has a $250 million Russian OPIC fund, also has three other venture funds in the region with more than $400 million invested and a track record there dating to 1991.
Even some OPIC fund managers question whether OPIC guarantees are needed. "We're delighted not to have OPIC in our new fund," said one OPIC fund manager, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "If you have the ability to raise money any other way, OPIC is not the best use of money for the taxpayer."
On that score, OPIC agrees. The agency, for instance, probably will not set up another Poland or Latin America fund, said Mr. Stillman, the former OPIC director.
"Our goal is to work ourselves out of business," he said. "If we can get people comfortable with these places, they will come in and do their thing."
Some of OPIC's institutional investors have a business agenda beyond receiving an attractive rate of return on their money.
At least two investors in the $25 million Africa Growth fund, Coca-Cola Export and Dresser Industries, benefited from its investments, which include aa Kenyan bottling plant for Coca-Cola and a transportation company used by Dresser.
The Israel Growth fund has taken stakes in the country's burgeoning software business -- including investments in two companies that later went public in the United States. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology, an investor in the fund, said it wanted to learn more about the high-technology business in Israel, where companies like I.B.M., Motorola and Intel have set up shop.
Still, critics of OPIC ask if all this business frenzy, especially with American taxpayers shouldering the risk, is a proper function of government. "If these are such good investments, then private money should go in and have all the risks and the benefits," said Douglas Bandow, a senior fellow at the Cato Institute. "If private enterprises want to do this, let them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Overseas Private Investment Corporation, a little-known Government agency that mixes private capital with Government guarantees, supports an investment fund in Russia. The fund helped modernize this privatized pulp and paper company in Komi. (pg. 14); John R. Silber. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Chart: "PORTRAIT OF A FUND: The Africa Growth Fund"
Started in 1987, the fund made its first investment in 1991 and is a 20-year, limited partnership. Its mission is to take equity and debt positions in a small number of high-quality African businesses. The fund's objective is a compounded return to investors of 12 to 15 percent or more.
 
Capital
 
-- Equity
$5 million, $1 million from each of five institutional investors.
-- Debt
$20 million in U.S. Government-guaranteed interest-bearing notes.
 
Equity Investors
 
-- Citicorp Sub-Saharan Investments
-- Coca-Cola Export Corporation (a subsidiary of Coca-Cola)
-- Kellogg Development (a subsidiary of Dresser Industries)
-- Lommus Development
-- Rockefeller & Company
 
Investments
 
-- Continental Acceptance, a merchant bank in Ghana.
-- Gaberone International Hotel, a Botswana hotel company.
-- Eden Roc Somiaf, a gold mine in Ivory Coast.
-- Fidelity Resources, a vehicle leasing company in Ghana.
-- Africa Air Products, which refills oxygen cylinders and makes acetylene in Cameroon.
-- Central Glass Industries, a Kenyan bottler of beer and Coca-Cola.
-- Societe Ivorienne de Torrefaction de Cafe, a coffee grinder, roaster and exporter in Ivory Coast.
-- Ghana Prawn Farm, an aquaculture farm.
 
(Source: PricewaterhouseCoopers)(pg. 14)
 
Chart: "Venture Capital Funds, Backed by the Treasury"
The investment funds of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation have become a favorite foreign policy tool of the Clinton Administration. A total of $3.2 billion has been raised for the program, which mixes private equity with Government-guaranteed debt. The premise is that emerging democracies can be aided by long-term capital investment from America.
 
Latin America
Total funds committed
$340 million
 
Africa
Total funds committed
$440 million
 
India and Asia
Total funds committed
$420 million
 
Europe and Russia
Total funds committed
$1.56 billion
 
After a slow start, OPIC funds have burgeoned in the last few years, carrying the program deep into parts of the world that have been shaken lately by currency shocks, economic turmoil and market collapses.
 
Amount committed, in millions
 
1987
 
Africa Growth: $25
 
1991
Asia Pacific Growth: $75
 
1993
Global Environmental Emerging Markets: $70
Israel Growth: 40
 
1994
AIG Brunswick Millennium: $300
Emerging Europe: 60
First NIS Regional: 200
Poland Partners: 65
Russia Partners: 155
 
1995
Agribusiness Partners International: $100
Allied Capital International Small Business: 20
Bancroft Eastern Europe: 100
Draper International India: 55
India Private Equity: 140
New Century Capital Partners: 250
PBO Property: 240
South America Private Equity Growth: 180
 
1996
Aqua International Partners: $300
Global Environmental Emerging Markets II: 120
InterArab Investment: 45
New Africa Opportunities: 120
Newbridge Andean Partners: 160
South Asia Capital: 150
 
1997
Modern Africa Growth and Investment: $150
West Bank/Gaza and Jordan: 60
 
1998
Caucasus Fund: $92
 
Note: Regional totals do not include funds that operate globally.
 
(Source: Overseas Private Investment Corporation)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); GHANA (93%); INDIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); BOTSWANA (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); JORDAN (79%); CAMEROON (79%); KENYA (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (72%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (99%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (99%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); GHANA (93%); INDIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); BOTSWANA (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); SOUTHERN ASIA (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); JORDAN (79%); CAMEROON (79%); KENYA (79%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



532 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT;
Those Topsy-Turvy Bonds

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
THESE are strange times in bond land.
Normally, investors in fixed-income securities spend their time fretting about inflation, which erodes the value of their investment. But last month the world was tipped upside down. Worries about too much prosperity evaporated in the face of events that suggested recession, or even depression, in some parts of the world. 
 Inflation, it seems, is no longer the issue. The risk now is deflation -- falling prices.
In a conversation late last week, Jack Malvey, chief global fixed-income strategist at Lehman Brothers, talked about how investors might profit from the developments.
 
Q. A lot of people lost a lot of money in bonds in August. Just how bad was it?
 
A. Any way you slice it, August was the very worst month for all bonds, excluding Treasuries, since January 1973, when we began keeping our global family of bond indexes.
 
Q. What happened?
 
A. The big event was the Russian splash, the devaluation and default. But developments in Japan and Washington didn't help. Last month was a triple punch to the gut.
Those things led to this extraordinary rally in Treasuries, and left the rest of the sectors sadly lagging, most acutely in the market for emerging-markets bonds, but everywhere else as well.
 
Q. How much have the Treasury markets
improved?
A. At the beginning of the year, the 30-year bond was yielding 5.92 percent. Here we are almost two-thirds of the way through September, and the yield is down to 5.18 percent. It later closed the week at 5.14 percent. About three-quarters of that improvement happened in August. Except for 1987, when the equity market cracked, the Fed flooded the system with liquidity and rates plummeted, there has never been another period like this.
 
Q. Is the volatility behind us now?
 
A. If you are a short-term investor trying to outperform the indexes between now and the end of the year, we cannot say that this is the time to jump in. The uncertainties in the marketplace will not go away that fast.
 
Q. What about the Fed?
 
A. We think there is a very high likelihood the Fed will lower rates, but that it would prefer to have additional confirming evidence of an economic slowdown before they move.
We think that by November they will have that evidence, and will begin the process of bringing rates down. Over the course of the next 12 months, we think short rates could fall by as much as a full percentage point.
 
Q. At the moment, short rates are much higher than bond yields. If your forecast pans out, and the Fed does cut short rates by that amount, where does that put bond yields in a year's time?
 
A. We see bond yields declining, but in the interim we don't think they will come down as quickly as short-term rates. We think bond yields will fall below 5 percent, and perhaps as low as 4.75 percent as a preliminary target. But at this point that is not a bold prediction.
 
Q. Does it make sense for an individual investor to buy a 30-year bond that yields less than 5 percent?
 
A. Equity investors probably have better track records when they use a buy-and-hold strategy. Bonds require more management. If my father asked if he should buy a 30-year bond at this point, I would probably say no, buy something that matures in 5 years to 10 years. Intermediate maturities always make sense.
 
Q. What sort of a time horizon should an investor have?
 
A. I'd say about two years. There is probably a case to be made in being more nimble and actively involved in fixed-income investments these days. At some point, and I don't know when it will be, there will be clear evidence that inflation is back.
 
Q. How should an individual investor allocate $100,000 in the bond market?
 
A. It would probably make sense to put about 40 to 50 percent of the money in Treasury securities with maturities from one year to 30 years. I would put about $20,000 in a high-quality, short-duration corporate bond fund, another $20,000 in a short-term mortgage-backed securities fund. And I would not give up on the high-yield market. I would have at least 10 percent in good old-fashioned high-yield bonds. For the tax-conscious investor, put 10 percent of the money in municipal bonds, which are priced at their most attractive levels relative to Treasuries in about a decade.
 
Q. So what is your economic outlook?
 
A. We think there will be a growth recession next year, with the gross domestic product expanding at about a 1.8 percent rate. But like everyone else we think there is a big potential for error in that forecast. And there is a scenario where it is possible in three or four quarters the United States could be on the precipice of its first recession since 1990. But we are not looking for financial Armageddon.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Malvey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEHMAN BROTHERS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RECESSION (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); DEVALUATION (53%); 

PERSON: MALVEY, JACK; GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



533 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Fear and Loathing at a Growth-Stock Gathering

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
ANYONE wondering what was on the minds of money managers attending the Nationsbanc Montgomery Securities investment conference last week got their answer Monday afternoon at a presentation by Judith Estrin, chief technology officer at Cisco Systems.
After declaring that she would not talk about Cisco's sales or earnings, or even its products -- which link millions of computers around the world -- Ms. Estrin enthused over her vision of the "new paradigm" taking shape through the convergence of data, voice and video technologies.
 When she finished, a hand went up in the audience. "Can you tell us," the questioner asked, "how this convergence will affect revenues?" 
 With their portfolios wracked by the stock market's two-month slump, the investment managers at this annual growth-stock carnival had little patience for paradigms, new or otherwise. And no matter how enthusiastically they had embraced such visionary pronouncements in years past, sales and earnings, or the lack thereof, were the only things that mattered last week.
For most, the slump began long before the Dow Jones industrial average peaked in July. Many of the managers date the decline to the spring, or last year. Since then, many small-company stocks have lost fans, momentum and half or more of their value.
The Montgomery conference, as the event is known, has long served as a coming-out party for young, rapidly growing companies. They are the type of companies whose price-to-earnings ratios are often measured in three digits -- when they have earnings. But this year, the ratios of many of last year's favorite growth stocks more closely resemble hat sizes.
That led to an interesting phenomenon. Gone was Montgomery's slogan, "The Power of Growth." And many of the most crowded sessions were for companies that were anything but traditional growth concerns, staid companies like Bell Atlantic, BellSouth, U S West and SBC Communications.
"We believe we are becoming a growth company," said F. Duane Ackerman, the head of BellSouth, at which Nationsbanc Montgomery Securities expects earnings to grow by 15 percent this year and 13 percent next year -- far below the 30 to 50 percent growth favored by high-octane investors.
Mr. Ackerman maintained, however, that while many of those high growth rates had deflated as quickly as they had grown, BellSouth's earnings were the real thing. "We know there's a difference between virtual profits and real profits," he said.
 But many portfolio managers are little worried these days about definitions. With many of their favorite stocks down 50 percent or more from their highs, they want to know two basics: Are the companies seeing recession signs? And will the next earnings reports fail to meet analysts' estimates?
Several corporate executives unabashedly said no to both questions. Mel Karmazin, president and chief operating officer of CBS, promised that while the company's third quarter would be strong, the fourth quarter looked even stronger. "Did you get that?" Mr. Karmazin demanded. "Even stronger. We don't see anything going on in the economy that is slowing down."
Among portfolio managers, the mood was more reserved and could best be described as one of cautious optimism. But the optimism appeared to grow as the week progressed. "I'm not hearing anybody talk about a recession in their business," said Dave Brady, a portfolio manager at Stein Roe & Farnham, the Chicago mutual fund company. For example, Mr. Brady said, companies like Clear Channel Communications and Outdoor Systems, whose billboard businesses should be among the first places where an economic slowdown would be evident, said they, too, saw no sign of a decline.
CORPORATE executives who did acknowledge seeing a slowdown said it was most likely to affect everyone else. "This is one of the most uncertain and turbulent times many of us have faced in our corporate careers," said Timothy Howard, chief financial officer of the Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae. "But Fannie Mae's outlook is very strong in spite of the current business environment."
If a theme resounded among the 250 or so companies that made presentations, it was this: Forget what anyone might have said in the past about being a global company.
"We're not exposed to overseas vagaries," said Henry R. Silverman, president and chief executive of Cendant, a company whose vagaries have been of the domestic accounting variety.
The conference did make one thing clear: There are few creatures lonelier than a chief executive of a growth company abandoned by the madding crowd.
In 1995, the throng greeting Dave Corriveau and Buster Connell, co-founders of the restaurant chain Dave & Buster's, spilled out into the hallway. That year, as the company went public, earnings doubled. This year, with growth at a mere 30 percent, two out of three seats at the company's presentation were empty.
And, clearly, some stocks have fallen to ridiculously low levels. For example, the shares of Wolverine World Wide, maker of Hush Puppies and other famous brands of shoes, are trading for little more than the company's book value, or net worth, down 60 percent from their high in March. But Geoffrey B. Bloom, Wolverine's chief executive, said to the assembled few: "If there is a better company traded on the New York Stock Exchange that's currently trading at eight times earnings, I'd like you to introduce me to the C.E.O."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With many growth stocks down 50 percent or more from recent highs, the annual Montgomery investment conference took on a new tone this year. Diane Wehner of Benefit Capital Management talked to her office while checking stock prices at the meeting. (Thor Swift for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (84%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (74%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (74%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONSBANC MONTGOMERY SECURITIES AT&T INC (84%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (74%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONSBANC MONTGOMERY SECURITIES

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BONDS (78%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD JUDITH L ESTRIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



534 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS;
Lured to Enroll, Left To Squirm

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
WITH colleges facing persistent cost increases and a smaller applicant pool, what was once a gentlemanly competition for students has in many cases degenerated into a grim battle for survival -- in which scholarships are negotiated as crassly, and about as reliably, as the sale of used cars.
Taking many forms -- a scholarship, discounted tuition or some other benefit -- financial-aid packages can be dangled before prospective freshmen, and are often key in winning over applicants who might have opted to enroll elsewhere. But what incoming students do not always realize is that these packages can shrink or disappear once a "sale" is made. 
 "Bait and switch often happens once they enroll; there's no question about it," said Norman Smith, president of Wagner College on Staten Island, which he said guarantees its aid in writing for four years.
There are no statistics on how many students have suffered financial-aid shocks. But college administrators and financial aid specialists alike say that in the competition among private colleges and universities for applicants, games are often played with financial aid.
Once a desired applicant, enticed by an aid package, enrolls, it is not at all unusual for that aid to wither. Among the chief targets are those students who have made the most successful transition to college -- and are thus less inclined to transfer.
In general, parents and students are advised to examine closely a school's aid documents. The papers should specify how long aid will continue and, if for less than for four years, the terms for renewal. Cuts in aid can be appealed, but there is seldom full restoration unless the student has an outstanding record or has other leverage, like a connection with wealthy alumni.
Most student aid is based on financial need, as determined by a Federal questionnaire that each institution interprets for itself. And aid can be reduced legitimately for various reasons.
One is a significant improvement in parental financial circumstances, perhaps resulting from a job promotion, a remarriage or the graduation from college of a student's older sibling. Aid can also be cut off after a college catches up with parental misrepresentation or egregious hiding of assets.
Other legitimate reasons for cutbacks include adverse developments on the student's side: poor grades, slow progress toward a degree, alcohol abuse or other bad conduct. In cases involving athletic scholarships, a disabling injury can end the aid.
Some institutions, intentionally or carelessly offering more financial help than they can deliver, find pretexts to curtail it -- for example, by invoking fine print in the contract that requires achieving unrealistically high grades.
"One 'D' in your first semester, and you lose your financial aid" is a frequent ploy, said Patricia O. Ewers, president of Pace University and the chairwoman this year of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities.
Another, according to Dr. Ewers, is withdrawing a scholarship when a student changes academic direction -- when a science major, say, decides to become an accountant.
She said Pace guaranteed scholarships, but noted that it and other schools generally did not protect against inflation's effects on awards with fixed-dollar amounts.
To be sure, some recipients do not fully understand the terms of their aid packages, which are often tailored to rely progressively less on grants and more on loans as students' ability to borrow improves.
But competitive recruiting also causes such "over-awarding" that a school, well intentioned or not, chooses to back away from some of its obligations. Some colleges have almost gone under because their financial aid offices have cut prices too much for too many.
In recent years, many institutions have revived scholarships and other aid based on merit, rather than need, as they try to lure a cadre of top-ranking students.
Carol Loewith, a private counselor to students and their families in Fairfield, Conn., says she has begun advising them to try to negotiate improved deals when more than one school seems strongly interested. "It's never a done deal," Ms. Loewith, president of the Independent Educational Consultants Association, said she tells them.
A common tactic, according to Dr. Smith of Wagner, is for a school to suddenly "find" some aid over the summer for students who have not yet accepted admission.
"Unsavory things are going on," he said, with many struggling institutions "turning themselves into used-car dealerships."
THE unexpected disappearance of financial aid, it is widely agreed, is confined mainly to second- and third-tier private institutions, including some relatively expensive schools concentrated in the Northeast that compete ferociously for students.
The Ivy League schools, by contrast, are richly endowed and suffer no shortage of top applicants, while state universities enjoy an increasing flood of applicants who see them as such bargains that further financial inducement is ruled out.
"It's the lesser institutions that are doing this, that are baiting and switching," said Leonard Krivy, an educational consultant in Cherry Hill, N.J.
According to David S. Crockett, senior vice president at USA Group Noel Levitz, which consults with colleges on enrollment issues, colleges traditionally dispensed financial aid haphazardly without enough regard to budgetary consequences.
"Now it's becoming more integrated, tied more closely to recruiting," Mr. Crockett said, a process that has led some institutions, which he declined to identify, to offer prospective students aid that is openly acknowledged as one-time-only -- the academic equivalent of a signing bonus.
"We're really opposed to these first-year scholarships," he said. "It seems like enticing them in with it."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Richard Elmer)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); MISCONDUCT (69%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (69%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); 

PERSON: CRAIG R SMITH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



535 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
Bracing for Mortgage Losses

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
Investors are still reeling from the news that trading losses, mostly in emerging markets, will erase a lot of earnings from the books of leading financial services companies in the United States this quarter. Merrill Lynch said it lost $135 million trading bonds in July and August, cutting earnings to one-fourth their level during those months in 1997. Citicorp's losses will slice $200 million from third-quarter profits.
Financial stocks have been trounced on the news. Bankers Trust has fallen to $63.75 from an April high of $136.4375. Lehman Brothers is down 60 percent. 
 Time to bargain-hunt? Or is there another wave of losses out there?
The bad news is, surf's up. Falling interest rates mean fresh problems at banks and brokerage firms in their mortgage lending businesses or trading of mortgage-backed securities. As rates fall, homeowners refinance mortgages. What's good for consumers -- their borrowing costs shrink -- is bad for the institutions that made the higher-rate loans or serviced them. That's because the income and servicing fees on these loans vanish.
Even though mortgage rates have yet to decline sharply, the number of consumers refinancing their mortgages is way up. The Mortgage Bankers Association refinancing index is at double the level seen in May. And the index will skyrocket in coming weeks when mortgage rates really plummet.
How gnarly will the refinancing wave be? Nobody knows. "Mortgage rates have declined to levels not seen in the history of the modern mortgage market," said Bob Kulason, director of the mortgage strategy group at Salomon Smith Barney. Thus, predicting future prepayments is much tougher.
Prepayments are important because finance companies make assumptions about the profitability of a loan based on how long it is likely to stay on the books. If loans get paid down faster than anticipated, the assumptions are wrong and earnings need to be adjusted.
Shareholders in Green Tree Financial learned this the hard way last fall. The company, which makes loans to buyers of manufactured housing, found prepayments on its loans coming in faster than expected. It took a $150 million pretax charge to earnings, and the stock fell 20 percent on the news.
Wall Street firms that trade mortgage-backed securities are also vulnerable to lower rates; those with big mortgage holdings are already behind the eight ball this year. The return on the Lehman Brothers government bond index is 7.89 percent while that of a mortgage-backed securities index is only 5.21 percent. Mortgages typically beat Treasuries' returns by one percentage point.
Making matters worse, many trading houses and hedge funds bought mortgages and hedged the positions by selling Treasuries. As Treasuries rose and mortgages lagged, these investors took a double hit.
And those traders holding interest-only strips, a derivative security that pays out only the interest generated by a pool of mortgages and is not backed by the loan's principal, will find themselves with nothing when homeowners pay off their loans.
Why would a trader want such a security? If rates stayed where they were or rose, the strips would continue to produce income. And since few Wall Street traders believed rates could drop to their current levels -- 5.14 percent on the 30-year bond -- interest-only strips were the thing to own.
When will mortgage problems surface? Not until October or November at the earliest, says Charles Peabody, bank analyst at Mitchell Securities in New York. "The first losses are likely to be housed in hedging strategies," Mr. Peabody said. "Arbitrage losses first, absolute dollar losses later."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Racing to Lower Rates" shows Mortgage Bankers Association refinance index, since April

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS561440 COLLECTION AGENCIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GREEN TREE SERVICING LLC (53%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); MODULAR & MANUFACTURED BUILDINGS (50%); 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN CHARLES PEABODY (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



536 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: DATABANK: SEPTEMBER 14-18;
In the Stock Market, a Tenuous Recovery

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN 

 BODY:
For most of last week it looked as if storm clouds had lifted, as the stock market began recovering from the mauling it had taken in recent weeks -- even managing to climb for four consecutive days for the first time since June.
Then came Thursday. The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 216 points. On Friday, it edged up 21.89 points, to close at 7,895.66. That was especially welcome because Friday was a quarterly triple-witching day, when stock futures, stock options and stock index futures all expire, often setting off wild swings. For the week, the Dow was up 100.16 -- still 12 points below where it opened the year, and 15.4 percent below its peak of 9,337.97, set on July 17. 
 The market was buoyed on Monday after President Clinton, in a speech in New York, advocated a coordinated global policy for economic growth. But on Wednesday, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said in Congressional testimony, "I think I can safely say at the moment there is no endeavor to coordinate interest rate cuts" among the world's big economies. Thursday's tumble ensued. JAN M. ROSEN

GRAPHIC: Charts/Graphs
Merck
NYSE: MRK
Physicians at a European medical conference said that the company's drug Fosamax offered hope for treating osteoporosis, which causes bones to become brittle and break easily. Some 200 million women suffer from it.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $134.4375
WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.03%
EST. '98 P/E: 31.27
 
American Express
NYSE: AXP
As the Dow industrials rose, American Express, after stumbling in recent weeks, paced them. Worries eased about the financial sector's exposure to overseas markets, particularly in Russia and Latin America.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $84.50
WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.81%
EST. '98 P/E: 17.83
 
Coca-Cola
NYSE: KO
Citing global market woes, Michael Branca of Lehman Brothers cut his 1999 earnings estimate for Coke; 75 percent of its profit comes from abroad. Then France blocked Coke's $840 million bid for Orangina.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $61.375
WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.70%
EST. '98 P/E: 38.53
 
Providian Financial
NYSE: PVN
Shares soared after the credit card company said earnings could grow as much as 50 percent this year and next, exceeding forecasts. Moshe Orenbuch of Sanford C. Bernstein rates the company "outperform."
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $75.25
WEEK'S CHANGE: +26.60%
EST. '98 P/E: 32.30
 
Cummins Engine
NYSE: CUM
The world's largest maker of diesel engines said it would take a charge of $145 million in the third quarter. It expects revenues to be as much as 10 percent below the second quarter's because of slumping sales in Asia.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $32.5625
WEEK'S CHANGE: -23.38%
EST. '98 P/E: 6.97
 
Gillette
NYSE: G
The company, long known for stellar growth, warned that sagging global economies would hurt its third-quarter results. Merrill Lynch trimmed earnings estimates, and the stock, which had been above 62 in April, skidded.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: 36.5625
WEEK'S CHANGE: -12.16%
EST. '98 P/E: 26.17
 
Telefonos de Mexico
NYSE: TMX (A.D.R.'s)
Mexico's market was buoyed first by President Clinton's remarks on Tuesday, then by optimistic Latin investors who moved back into stocks, sending the benchmark TelMex up more than 10 percent on Thursday.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $43.25
WEEK'S CHANGE: +23.13%
EST. '98 P/E: 10.37
 
Alcatel S.A.
NYSE: ALA
The French telecommunications equipment maker said that because of the crises in Asia and Russia it would not meet 1998 earnings forecasts. Its shares tumbled, dragging down Lucent and Philips Electronics.
FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $18.9375
WEEK'S CHANGE: -46.56%
EST. '98 P/E: 13.36
 
Graphs plot daily closing stock priced for the companies mentioned above, from Sept. 11 through Sept. 18. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (92%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (92%); ASIA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK INDEXES (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TESTIMONY (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); STOCK OPTIONS (58%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



537 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3029 words

HEADLINE: Loving A Stock, Not Wisely But Too Well

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
THE tip arrived at the rustic New Hampshire farmhouse of George A. Schrader Jr. in a large manila envelope, postmarked Boston and stuffed with the hopeful prospect of future riches.
The contents told of a promising young drug company called Seragen Inc., which was developing a new class of drugs that scientists believed might someday be a "magic bullet" in the fight against cancer. Seragen had good science, even great science, the papers in the envelope indicated, and Wall Street analysts predicted that with Food and Drug Administration approval, it would quickly become a biotechnology superstar. 
 Mr. Schrader decided to buy about $6,000 in shares of Seragen in that summer of 1992. A retired professor of philosophy, he did not know much about biology or the stock market. But he knew the man who had sent him the envelope -- John R. Silber, then the president of Boston University, who had been a brilliant student of Mr. Schrader's at Yale 30 years before.
Combative and charismatic, Mr. Silber was a true believer in Seragen and its drugs, and for a decade he was the company's most ardent salesman. He persuaded scores of associates, friends, and family members to buy in: his brother, sister-in-law and niece, and friends on the faculty. His secretary plowed in more than $10,000.
At Mr. Silber's behest, the university poured tens of millions into Seragen, a sum that grew even in the face of a formal rebuke from state regulators that the stake was too risky for a nonprofit endowment.
Mr. Silber himself sank $1.7 million, close to half his net worth, into Seragen in the early 1990's. And when his son was dying of AIDS, Mr. Silber saw to it that he was treated with Interleukin-2, the company's experimental drug.
To Mr. Silber, Seragen was not just the purveyor of a magic bullet against disease; it was also the cure for Boston University's chronic financial needs -- the wonder drug that would propel the university's modest endowment into Ivy League ranks and, maybe, win a Nobel Prize for one of its faculty members. He delved into the company's complex science much as he had immersed himself, as a philosophy student, in the ethics of Immanuel Kant.
But as with so many infatuations, this one came to an ugly end.
An F.D.A. advisory panel recommended approval of Interleukin-2 this year -- but not before Seragen, based in Hopkinton, Mass., ran out of money.
The stock collapsed, and the company, flirting with bankruptcy, was sold in August for a pittance. Boston University's stake today is worth just $8.4 million. Mr. Silber's holdings, which had grown to $2 million, are valued now at $43,000. Some investors did better, depending on when they bought in and whether they got out before the crash. By the time Mr. Schrader died in May, his investment had all but evaporated.
In the wake of the debacle, the finger-pointing has grown heated. Some shareholders have sued Seragen and Boston University, among others, contending that in the scramble to keep Seragen afloat, the university -- which took a controlling interest of the company in 1987 -- engaged in "sweetheart deals" and "self-dealing" that benefited the university while whipsawing the share price and ultimately undermining Seragen's prospects.
The collapse has also served as an opportunity for Mr. Silber's critics to resurrect accusations that he was blind to conflicts of interest arising from Seragen, including his and the university's financial dealings with trustees who both oversaw the university's investments in Seragen and invested in the company themselves.
Mr. Silber saw no conflict of interest. "I advocated that the trustees invest in Seragen, and I put my poke in Seragen," he said. "I think it would have been hypocritical if I said, 'You invest, but I won't.' "
He was, after all, in pursuit of what every investor wants: a huge score. He just happened to pick one of the toughest ways to make it.
"Biotech is a graveyard," said Mark Simon, an analyst at BancBoston Robertson Stephens. "This is a very risky area. It's like wildcatting, oil drilling. But when you hit a well, it can be very huge."
 
The Beginnings
John Silber likes to say that he has always been a risk taker. In 1971, he took a risk on Boston University, a school that he considered nearly bankrupt, academically and financially, and transformed it into a bastion of excellence. He hired what he termed a "murderer's row" of top scholars, bolstered the university's finances and gained notoriety as one of the nation's highest-paid college presidents, with compensation of more than $500,000 a year. In 1996, he was named chancellor.
The Texas-born Mr. Silber, a former professor of philosophy, has been called brilliant, arrogant, charming and elitist. Friends and critics agree he is direct.
He first became interested in Seragen in 1986, when Dr. John R. Murphy, a professor at the university, gave a talk about his discovery of "fusion toxins," genetically re-engineered proteins that acted as guided missiles, aiming at diseased cells and injecting them with a protein-destroying chemical. Dr. Murphy had helped found Seragen, with other Boston-area scientists, and his experimental drug, Interleukin-2, was later licensed to the company.
"I remember him coming up to me after the talk, and he was very interested in the nature of the science and the potential the science had," Dr. Murphy said, recalling his first discussion of Interleukin-2 with Mr. Silber. "He was very excited."
The next year, when a Norwegian pharmaceutical company decided to divest itself of its majority interest in Seragen, the university's trustees, at Mr. Silber's urging, bought the stake for $25 million. He was not about to repeat the mistake Boston University made at the turn of the century, when Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone -- while on leave from the school.
"If we had just 5 percent of what eventually became Bell Telephone," Mr. Silber said recently, "we would be richer than Harvard today."
Critics at the university, however, questioned the Seragen investment almost immediately. Michael Manove, a professor of economics, complained that the school was putting "too many eggs in one basket." The school's total endowment at the time was valued at $175 million.
More serious questions arose when Mr. Silber, a conservative Democrat, ran for Governor of Massachusetts in 1990.
William Weld, his Republican opponent, accused him of personally profiting from the university's sale of a Seragen unit in 1989. Mr. Silber denied owning stock in the unit, but in 1993, long after Mr. Silber lost the election, the state Attorney General's office -- which regulates nonprofit institutions -- concluded that he indeed had received $386,700 from the sale. At that point, Mr. Silber said he had returned the payment as soon as he recognized that it was improper. Investigators determined that Mr. Silber had not broken any laws.
The investigation into Mr. Silber was part of a criminal inquiry, the Attorney General said, which was begun after his office received "credible evidence" that Mr. Silber had received a payment that he had denied receiving in public statements. Meanwhile, a separate civil inquiry examined the university's governance and its large stake in Seragen.
In 1992, the university signed an agreement with the Attorney General's office pledging to "significantly reduce" its financial exposure in Seragen. To spread the risk, an initial public offering was planned.
 
A True Believer
None of the criticism dampened Mr. Silber's enthusiasm for Seragen. He was enamored with the company and its technology -- in part because of the story of a Hingham, Mass., man named Bill Smith.
Mr. Smith had cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, a form of cancer that quickly covered his body with lesions. Chemotherapy had failed, and in January 1990, when he was 60, he was told that he did not have much time left. Mr. Smith was given a dose of Interleukin-2, then in the early stages of its clinical trials, and soon after, his cancer went into remission.
"They gave me six months to live, and I'm still here," Mr. Smith said in a recent interview. "It's a miracle."
His account, videotaped for Seragen, became a centerpiece in Mr. Silber's personal campaign to spread the word about the company. Although Mr. Silber says he never "touted" Seragen's stock, he did encourage people in his vast circle to invest once the company went public in April 1992, at $12 a share. Seragen, he would tell potential investors, was where his money was riding.
"Because he believed in it, and because he's an intelligent and persuasive person, I bought it," said Walter Lubars, a longtime professor of public relations at Boston University who bought about $30,000 worth. "I was getting ready to retire, and he convinced me, in '92, '93, '94, that by '97, Seragen would be at $64."
There was never any doubt about Mr. Silber's commitment -- or compassion. In 1991, he wrote to Roger Shattuck, a longtime friend who was a professor of modern languages at the university, that Seragen was developing a molecule that might offer a treatment for Mr. Shattuck's 40-year-old daughter Tari, a teacher, who was suffering from CML leukemia. Mr. Shattuck eventually invested in the company, but Interleukin-2 proved irrelevant to his daughter's disease; she died in April 1993.
A year later, Mr. Silber arranged for his 41-year-old son, David, an actor infected with H.I.V., to be treated with the drug. "Seragen is really our only hope, because the doctors agree that the other chemo is only slowing it down but cannot stop it," Mr. Silber wrote to a friend. "David is now in that difficult process for a young person of coming to terms with the fact that he is very likely to die within the next few months."
Actually, he died a month later.
 
A Flurry of Deals
Mr. Silber's enthusiasm could not disguise the difficulties Seragen was facing. The company raised $52 million through public stock sales in 1992 and 1993, but like so many young biotechnology companies, its cash needs were voracious.
In 1996, with F.D.A. approval of Interleukin-2 still just a dream, Seragen lost $26.3 million, pushing its cumulative losses to $200 million. The stock, which had reached a high of $15 in January 1993, ended 1996 at just over $1 a share. By then, Dr. Murphy, the father of Interleukin-2, had severed his ties to Seragen. Though his faith in the drug was undiminished, "it was clear," he said, "that the problems were business problems."
As tireless as he had been in promoting the public stock offerings, Mr. Silber worked just as hard to bring desperately needed money into the company when sales of common stock were no longer feasible.
There was a flurry of deals. In November 1995, Mr. Silber orchestrated a bailout of sorts that brought in $23.8 million through a loan backed by the university and two affiliated investors: Leon C. Hirsch, the chairman of the United States Surgical Corporation, who is also a university trustee, and Gerald S. J. Cassidy, the university's Washington lobbyist. The loans were later converted into preferred stock.
In September, the university, which had periodically poured new money into Seragen, invested an additional $5 million through a private placement of stock, bringing its stake to $84 million. (The state, which had directed Boston University four years earlier to reduce its holdings in Seragen, did not object, because with the overall growth of the school's endowment to $470 million, its relative exposure to the drug company's stock had diminished, said Richard C. Allen, head of the public charities division of the state Attorney General's office.)
In December, Seragen's board -- which included Mr. Silber, Mr. Cassidy and Kenneth Condon, the university's treasurer -- voted to raise the number of authorized shares in the company to 70 million from 30 million. It was an act of desperation that would dilute the value of existing investors' holdings.
Indeed, a small group of investors began complaining about the company's issuing what they termed "exploding puts": preferred shares or options with conversion features that could result in virtually unlimited dilution if the share price fell -- as, indeed, it did.
The struggle to raise cash continued into 1997, but there were no more deep pockets for Mr. Silber to plumb. In February, Seragen sold its manufacturing operation to the university for $5 million. The school leased services back to Seragen.
 
Questions of Conflicts
Deals like that one, critics said, indicated that Mr. Silber and the university had crossed the lines of propriety in their struggle to keep Seragen afloat.
Some investors complained that key backers of Seragen had conflicting allegiances. Mr. Silber and Mr. Hirsch, for instance, were trustees of the university, directors of U.S. Surgical and large shareholders of Seragen. Among other transactions, U.S. Surgical paid $5 million in July 1997 for the worldwide rights to one of Seragen's drugs, a deal that also gave U.S. Surgical warrants to buy 500,000 Seragen shares.
Mr. Silber owns 22,000 shares of U.S. Surgical, worth around $900,000. He has also been designated a director in Mr. Cassidy's lobbying firm, when it goes public.
Disturbed by what they said was the appearance of a conflict of interest, a group of U.S. Surgical investors called in May of this year for a vote to remove Mr. Silber from the company's compensation committee, citing an "inter-locking directorate relationship" with Mr. Hirsch and the men's business ties.
As Seragen collapsed, shareholders outside its inner circle also began to look askance at the blur of transactions. In August, an angry group of investors filed a lawsuit in Delaware contending that the interests of minority shareholders were damaged by Mr. Silber, the university and its associates, including Mr. Cassidy and Mr. Hirsch. The suit says they engaged in "sweetheart deals" and "self-dealing."
Mr. Cassidy and Mr. Hirsch declined to be interviewed.
Thomas G. Griffin, a lawyer for the shareholder group, said the "self-dealing" included the $23.8 million bailout of Seragen in 1995. The ties between the various parties, he said, obscured lines of fiduciary duty. "Boston University and Silber are controlling Seragen and saying, 'You're going to do this deal with B.U.,' " he said. "So they are both buyer and seller; they have these arrangements with themselves."
But R. Robert Popeo, a lawyer for the university who earlier represented Seragen, denied that the university or Mr. Silber were involved in any self-dealing or conflicts of interest. He said that his office had drawn up strict conflict guidelines that were closely followed and that Mr. Silber and other university officials did not participate in votes when there were deemed to be conflicts. At times, though, he said Mr. Silber and others -- including himself -- switched from representing the university to representing Seragen's interest. "Dual representation doesn't mean a conflict of interest," he said.
Nor were there "sweetheart" deals, he added; rather than damaging the company, he said, the university saved it from early bankruptcy.
"Seragen would have been out of business had it not been for the university, Hirsch and Cassidy," Mr. Popeo said. "Pick up a phone and call Salomon or Lehman and they'll tell you for $23 million they could have demanded 40 percent of the company."
Often, of course, conflicts are a matter of perception. "What is improper about an officer of the university having business dealings with trustees?" Mr. Silber asked during an interview last week. "Far from being a conflict of interest, it is clearly in the interest of the university to establish such business dealings."
 
The Denouement
Even now, Mr. Silber's faith in Interleukin-2 has not faltered. "The fact is, I was right about Seragen's science," he said defiantly in a recent interview. "For over 10 years, we've had good results."
In June 1998, an F.D.A. advisory panel recommended approval for the use of Interleukin-2 in the treatment of lymphoma. On final approval, the drug, known commercially as Ontak, may live up to the promise that Mr. Silber imagined for it when he heard Dr. Murphy's speech 12 years ago.
But Seragen, and Boston University, will not reap much of the benefit. Out of money and delisted from the Nasdaq stock market, Seragen was acquired in August by Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc., a San Diego company whose shares promptly tumbled when the deal was announced. Ligand paid $30 million for Seragen, now a wholly owned subsidiary, and will pay an additional $37 million if Ontak gets a final Government O.K.
To the university, that represented a loss of 90 percent on its investment during a time when so many others were soaring. For just the $50 million that the school had put into Seragen as of 1989, it could have $175 million today had it instead put the money into a mutual fund that tracked the Standard & Poor's 500.
The cry among critics all along was that Mr. Silber just could not let go. They said the university refused to give up its majority stake in Seragen, making financing difficult.
Mr. Silber says that if the state had not restricted the university from investing more heavily, Seragen would have flourished. "Seragen has not fallen and Seragen has not failed," Mr. Silber said. "You want to talk about the rise and fall of Seragen's stock? Fine." Regulators say they saved the univeristy from losing millions more.
Mr. Silber's hope, now, is in Ligand, which may eventually bring Ontak to the market. What remains of his and the university's Seragen stakes have become Ligand shares.
Mr. Silber's friends must hope now, too. Despite their losses, few have soured on John Silber -- and some look on with sympathy.
"I feel sorry in a way for John, because he wanted to leave as a legacy a gigantic endowment," said Mr. Lubars, the retired professor who bought into Seragen on Mr. Silber's tip. "And I hope people don't think he's dumped Seragen on us, because he's done so many good things for the university."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. John R. Murphy, who discovered Interleukin-2. (Frank Curran); As president and later chancellor of Boston University, John R. Silber championed Seragen. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Researcher at Seragen's laboratory in Hopkinton, Mass. (Courtesy of Seragen)(pg. 13)
 
Diagram: A molecular model of Interleukin-2, a fusion protein toxin .
 
Chart: "Miracle Drug, Mortal Company"
Like so many other biotechnology companies, Seragen, of Hopkinton, Mass., had more promise than financial wherewithal. Even the persistence of John R. Silber, Boston University's chancellor and the company's biggest booster, could not keep it alive.
 
DRUG DEVELOPMENT
1982 -- Dr. John R. Murphy of Harvard University seeks a patent on the Interleukin-2 fusion protein toxin, a genetically engineered chemical that may lead to a new class of cancer-fighting drugs.
 
1984 -- Dr. Murphy joins the Boston University medical faculty and continues his research.
 
1989 -- Human trials begin on Interleukin-2.
 
FINANCES AND GOVERNANCE
 
1979 -- Seragen is founded by Boston-area medical researchers.
 
1980-85 -- Boston University puts $1.2 million into Seragen through its venture capital fund.
 
1987 -- Boston University buys a majority interest in Seragen for $25 million. Ten university trustees invest in the company.
 
1989 -- The university begins spending about $1.1 million a month to finance Seragen's operations.
 
1990 -- Questions about investments in Seragen arise during Mr. Silber's failed campaign for Massachusetts Governor.
 
January 1992 -- The university tells regulators that it will significantly reduce its stake in Seragen.
 
April 1992 -- Seragen goes public at $12 a share, raising about $36 million.
 
1992-93 -- Mr. Silber invests about $1.7 million of his own money in Seragen.
 
1993 -- The university agrees to follow new conflict-of- interest rules regarding financial disclosure and business relations with trustees.
 
1994 -- Seragen signs a development and marketing agreement with Eli Lilly & Company.
Mr. Silber's son David, terminally ill with AIDS, is treated with Interleukin-2. He dies in December.
 
1995 -- Seragen begins drawing down a $23.8 million loan from Boston University; Leon C. Hirsch, a university trustee, and Gerald S.J. Cassidy, the university's Washington lobbyist.
 
May 1996 -- An overseas offering of discounted shares raises $3.8 million from Paul Reichmann, the Canadian financier.
 
December 1996 -- Seragen directors vote to raise the number of shares to 70 million from 30 million, diluting the value of investors' holdings. Losses for the year total $26.3 million.
 
June 1998 -- A Food and Drug Administration advisory panel recommends approval of Seragen's fusion protein toxin, now called Ontak, for use in treating lymphoma.
 
July 1998 -- Ligand Pharmaceuticals of San Diego says it will acquire Seragen for $30 million, plus $37 million more if Ontak receives final Government approval.
 
August 1998 -- A shareholder lawsuit accuses the university, Mr. Silber and other Seragen officials of self-dealing. They deny the contention.
 
August 14 -- Seragen is delisted by Nasdaq. The stock closes at 45 cents a share.
 
(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LGND (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: SERAGEN INC; BOSTON UNIVERSITY; LIGAND PHARMACEUTICALS INC LIGAND PHARMACEUTICALS INC (72%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SERAGEN INC; BOSTON UNIVERSITY; LIGAND PHARMACEUTICALS INC BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CANCER; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CANCER (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); EXPERIMENTAL DRUGS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); PHILOSOPHY (76%); US FDA APPROVALS (76%); BIOLOGICAL FACTORS (75%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); APPROVALS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); AIDS & HIV (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (65%); ETHICS (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID; SILBER, JOHN R JOSEPH C PAPA (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



538 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Newfangled Econ 101: Throw Caution to the Winds

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
THE Japanese are well versed in the art of fending off American accusations, including the perpetual hyperventilating over Japan's protectionist trade policies. But nothing from the past could have prepared the Japanese for the latest salvo by several prominent American economists who say the Japanese Government has been insufficiently reckless.
By running an overly tight monetary policy, these economists say, and by driving down inflation, the Government has inadvertently contributed to a downward spiral of prices and production that has cost the Japanese nearly a decade of growth and added to economic turmoil throughout the region and beyond. 
 To make amends, the Government must now "credibly promise to be irresponsible," says Paul Krugman, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. By that he means the central bank should embark on a crash program of printing yen -- creating not only inflation today, but also the expectation of inflation tomorrow and an indefinite number of tomorrows into the future.

Radical Advice
Faced with a financial crisis that has swept from Asia to Russia to Latin America, President Clinton and finance officials from the major industrialized powers suggested last week a concerted effort to emphasize growth over inflation fighting, presumably by cutting interest rates. These officials do not want to spur inflation, though it might be an unintended consequence of fighting off recession with looser monetary policies.
Mr. Krugman, by contrast, embraces inflation as an economic cure for Japan's maladies. And at a moment when a quarter of the world's population is living through recession or worse, there is good reason to focus on Japan. Solving the growing financial crisis in Latin America requires resolving economic chaos in Asia. And to solve Asia's problems requires re-establishing Japan as an engine of regional growth.
Mr. Krugman's puckish prescription sounds wacky enough to Western ears, but to the decorous, orderly Japanese, it probably sounds quite mad. Prof. Koiche Hamada of Yale University giggled when asked to contemplate how Mr. Krugman's formula would be received by most of the officials who run Japan's central bank.
But as Mr. Krugman points out, Japan's desperate plight cries out for unorthodox solutions. And there are signs that his ideas are making inroads: A prominent Japanese lawmaker recently embraced the notion of setting an inflation target.
Let's step back. The Japanese economy, whose rapid and noninflationary growth was the envy of the world in the 1970's and 80's, has fallen into dire straits. Industrial production has stagnated for the entire decade. Wholesale prices have fallen over the past five years, an improbably long time for prices to drop in industrialized economies. Land values have crashed, undermining the solvency of banks whose loans are tied to real estate. Stock prices have also plunged.
Deflation can be just as economically corrosive as inflation. Falling prices create an expectation of future decline, which compels consumers and investors to postpone spending, setting off a self-sustaining downward spiral of production, income, spending and prices.
So what should Japan do? There are any number of ideas, but these are the four usual suspects.
*Japan could close down its insolvent banks and bail out the others. Only then will the normal interplay between lenders and borrowers resume. A plan along these lines was announced last week. However, such restructuring takes time and provides only a partial solution.
The Government could try to spend its way out of recession by investing lavishly in infrastructure projects. But the Government has an unenviable record of building roads and bridges that go nowhere important, tailoring projects more to the needs of political cronies than to the economy. And this, too, is only a partial answer.
*Japan could cut taxes to boost spending. But the nation is aging quickly, and the Federal deficit will balloon as the elderly retire and draw pensions. So a tax cut today will have to be offset by a tax hike in the future. Japanese taxpayers know this and can be expected to prepare for the eventual hike by stashing money they temporarily save on taxes into their bank accounts instead of spending on consumer goods.

Start the Presses
The most popular way to stimulate spending -- cutting interest rates -- is impossible in Japan, because their rates are already within an eyelash of zero. The rate controlled by the central bank is already down to 0.25 percent, yet there has been no spending splurge.
Enter Mr. Krugman. He urges the central bank to drop its traditional mission of price stability and instead start printing however many yen it takes to generate lasting inflation. The goal is to turn expectations of deflation into their opposite, scaring people into buying goods now before they become more expensive. This pro-inflation policy would also spur investment by companies that could borrow yen that they know will be worth less by the time they have to repay their creditors.
Prof. Allan Meltzer of Carnegie Mellon University urges the Bank of Japan to pour out however much money it takes to stop prices from falling, a less extreme goal than Mr. Krugman's. Prof. Frederic Mishkin of Columbia University also wants to step on the monetary pedal, arguing that people would use the newly printed yen to buy land and other assets, thereby halting the slide in prices. He also says increasing the number of yen would drive down its value on foreign exchange markets and thereby boost exports.
These economists offer bold ideas. But, as Mr. Krugman says admiringly of his proposals, "Faced with a novel kind of economic malaise, the results of hard thinking deserve to be taken seriously."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "The Japanese Economy: No Place to Go but Up" Show general declines in real estate and stock market prices as well as price deflation and falling interest rates between 1987 and 1998. (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Japan External Trade Organization)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (70%); JAPAN EXTERNAL TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); JAPAN EXTERNAL TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAPAN EXTERNAL TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); JAPAN EXTERNAL TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CURRENCY PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); DEFLATION (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POPULATION SIZE (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); INTEREST RATES (66%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M; KRUGMAN, PAUL (PROF) PAUL KRUGMAN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



539 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Shadow Play -- Washington's Gears, Grinding;
Behind the Scenes, There Are No Wise Men Anymore

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
WHEN Speaker Newt Gingrich was hitting rock bottom in facing the House's ethics reprimand last year, he resorted to a time-honored insider technique: He reached out privately to one of the capital's political "wise men" -- to an elder of the rival Democrats known to offer stricken combatants confidential advice beyond the bounds of partisanship.
"I got Gingrich together with Bob Strauss," recalled Vin Weber, a Republican ex-Congressman from Minnesota who, working the subtler ways of politics, arranged for the Speaker to break bread with Mr. Strauss, a syrup-smooth, battle-scarred sage from the Carter era who offered a recovery prescription of sorts. 
 Similarly, Mr. Strauss, who has ranged over the years from Democratic Party chairman to ambassadorial missions, was privately called to the White House for advice in President Ronald Reagan's confrontation with Congress over the Iran-contra affair. He was also summoned to join President George Bush's private gathering of wise men, if only for reasons of bipartisan ritual, as the invasion of Iraq loomed. So, then, with President Clinton now passing through the political valley of darkness, surely he must be calling on Mr. Strauss or some such capital elder to help find the best way out for both himself and the nation, right?
Mr. Weber, who is very close to Mr. Strauss, thinks not. "I hate to say it, but I wonder if this President has ever been willing to listen to that sort of adviser," he said. When in extremis in the Lewinsky sex scandal, Mr. Clinton has most notably turned for advice to Harry Thomason, a figure from the world of television entertainment. Late, great Democratic elders ranging from Ambassador W. Averell Harriman to Mayor Richard J. Daley could only have been whirring in their graves.
Many Democrats, even as they wish for the half-measure solution of a Brahmin-brokered censure of Mr. Clinton, sadly agree that the time may have long since passed for summoning any of the Beltway's fabled wise men. This is the informal cadre of emeritus politicians and lawyers (historically, it's been a clubby men's preserve) who occasionally drop by the city's floating political crap game at critical moments, in between using their influence on behalf of paying clients, to lend it some class and even a touch of realism. The notion of a Republican wise man daring to approach the independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr early on with a plea about the national interest amuses Democrats, who note that the special prosecutor law gives free rein to Mr. Starr -- and that his circle of party patrons features such anti-Clintonites as Senator Lauch Faircloth of North Carolina. Right now, the President's overheated scandal of sex and mendacity seems to be rattling down the Congressional tracks toward a formal impeachment inquiry.
"It's a different world in every way," said George Stephanopoulos, once one of President Clinton's strategists and now one of his unyielding media critics. "This wouldn't have happened in the 'wise men' days; they would have caught it before it got out," he said, finding the predicament rooted not merely in Mr. Clinton's gross excesses, but also in the demise of political parties with their elders offering deep experience. This is a change brought about by modern politicians like Mr. Clinton, driven by focus groups and personal fund-raising, attracted more to short-run strategy wizards like Dick Morris than to venerable mandarins. "Having wise men is connected to the idea that we have real parties," said Mr. Stephanopolous. "But if everybody is elected on his own, everybody lives or dies on his own."

Sages on Call
The "wise men" approach faded during the Vietnam War, when left and right exploited the anti-establishment backlash against government by "the best and the brightest." Right now, the need of the President if not the nation for a bipartisan stretcher team has rarely seemed clearer on Capitol Hill, where the impeachment scandal is threatening to become a serial pageant about the sex lives of the incumbent and righteous. Last week an adulterous affair from three decades ago suddenly surfaced about the avuncular Henry J. Hyde, the Congressman saddled with running the Clinton inquiry, who had been universally lauded as a dispassionate model of fairness. Rumors of further carnal outings of Republicans shook their ranks even as they voted on partisan lines Friday to release the videotape of President Clinton's grand-jury testimony.
At critical moments in administrations past, Presidents always had wise men at their beck and call. Lyndon B. Johnson had Clark Clifford, and even Jimmy Carter was not alone as he quietly relied on an Atlanta outsider, Charles Kirbo, to offer a Presidential reality check. Dwight D. Eisenhower charged his younger brother, Milton, an academic, with all manner of furtive oversight. But Mr. Clinton's chief confidential adviser, his wife, is now handicapped by having to share the strain the scandal has imposed on their marriage.
"Clinton is a President who shows no sign, throughout his career, of relying on paternal senior figures," said Michael R. Beschloss, a Presidential historian. "And there hasn't been a situation of a President being in a mess quite like this. The wheel is being invented on this one." Mr. Beschloss wondered whether this grave if lubricious crisis might stump even Chance the gardener, the surreal wise man of the satirical film "Being There." Chance's horticultural platitudes were taken as metaphorical wisdom by a crisis-ridden President. ("As long as the roots are not severed, all is well, and all will be well in the garden.")

The Good Old Days
Lloyd Cutler, the veteran lawyer who has served in the Carter and Clinton White Houses, has the silver-haired elan of a classic Washington elder. But he speaks of wise men more in nostalgia than as a promising dynamic in the current predicament. "Back in the days when we were more bipartisan in this city, we used the 'wise men' approach quite often, especially in foreign affairs," he said. "But impeachment is highly partisan in its nature, and it's very difficult to organize on a bipartisan basis." In Watergate, the approach was possible only after the prospect of removal from office became a certainty for Richard M. Nixon.
Some optimists talk of a wise-man bank shot: brokering a bipartisan compromise of censure by rallying nonpartisan sages and having them spark popular concern with a concerted warning that only a strong President will be able to deal with the economic crises sweeping the world. But one elder, wise enough to remain anonymous, despairs of even this. "The truth of the matter is Clinton just goes through the motions and doesn't appreciate the wise-men possibilities," this veteran summarized. "And the Republicans right now are mainly interested in milking their advantage through election day."
Clinton critics question whether a President who never courted wise men could turn now to such figures as former Senators Howard W. Baker Jr. or Sam Nunn. "George Mitchell is reported to have turned down the President's offer to become his wise man," said Tony Blankley, the conservative polemicist at George magazine, who rates the former Senator from Maine as Washington's truly wise man in declining to take up the President's folly. "Certain events can't be undone," Mr. Blankley said. "To avoid a bad news cycle, Clinton certainly has destroyed a Presidency and perhaps truncated it. This is no longer about the President; it's about the American people."
In one way, the White House agrees. President Clinton, clinging to job approval ratings of 60 percent, is counting on the public to eventually prevail as the truly wise one in the crisis, able to force a compromise on combative Republicans. "Life is a state of mind," as the tale of Chance the Presidential wise man concluded about Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ETHICS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ETHICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCANDALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SEX SCANDALS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINES, FRANCIS X; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; THOMASON, HARRY; LEWINSKY, MONICA S NEWT GINGRICH (88%); BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



540 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: The World;
China's Fine Art: Linguistic Survival

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
ALTHOUGH the world has focused its attention on the one-sided battle between the Chinese Communist Government and the political dissidents who press for radical change, there is also a large population here of intellectuals, many of them scholars or former officials, who work openly to nudge the system in a more democratic direction.
These people, known as liberals, borrow a term from ping pong to describe their strategy for stretching the bounds of political debate. They speak of hitting a "touch-ball" -- one that just grazes the edge of the table. 
 A risky hit, yet one that scores.
In this metaphor, the ping-pong table stands for the ideologically correct thoughts of the moment. Impatient progressives, as they write and speak, try to incorporate as much of the day's official jargon and ideas as they believe, or can stomach, while probing as far as they dare on issues like free speech, rule of law and political pluralism.
One problem is that the size of the table is constantly changing, and such people spend enormous amounts of time monitoring official talk and watching the experience of colleagues to figure out just where the limits are at any moment.
"If you hit it just right, then you can get away with saying something new or provocative," said a Beijing law professor. "If you miss the table, you lose."
"Lose" might mean anything from a reprimand at work to forced retirement, with a de facto ban on publication. Or the writer could descend into the ranks of the "dissidents," who are harassed and detained by police.
For the most part, the liberal scholars and officials are not to be confused with the beleaguered democracy dissidents, who push more directly, persistently and actively for radical change. The liberals hope instead that their more academic discourse will plant the seeds of a more open system.
Because every camp, from Communist leaders to dissidents, uses terms like democracy and the rule of law, it can be hard to tell who really stands for what.

Serious Hairsplitting
But in China, where ideas drove a revolution and words can bring jail, people are exquisitely attuned to linguistic cues. What might seem verbal hairsplitting in America is taken here with utmost seriousness.
In today's parlance, for example, the need for "political structural reform" is voiced by Communist leaders, starting with the Communist Party chief and President, Jiang Zemin. This seems to mean things like improving government efficiency, ending corruption and better enforcing party-dictated laws. Those with more Western notions of democracy often leave out the word "structural," and talk of "political reform."
The party's definition of democracy seems, again, to focus on improving "oversight" and "supervision" of bureacrats, to make sure they honestly carry out Beijing's edicts. (Genuine direct elections are limited to administrative jobs in villages.)
Thus at the Communist Party Congress last fall, President Jiang could declare, according to the official English translation, "We should promote democracy, improve the legal system and build a socialist country ruled by law," even as he reaffirmed the Four Cardinal Principles that the late Deng Xiaoping issued in 1979: keeping to the socialist road, upholding the dictatorship of the proletariat, upholding the leadership of the Communist Party and upholding Marxism-Leninism and Mao Zedong Thought.
President Jiang's reference to a "country ruled by law" in that speech last fall caused no end of analysis among the cognoscenti, because of the particular Chinese characters used in the official transcript.
Communist leaders, and emperors before them, had long used one term to call for what is often translated as "rule by law" or "a strengthening of the legal system." This term is taken to mean improving the use of law and institutional channels to carry out party rule -- an improvement over the highly personal rule of the past, but hardly Western democracy.
More recently, liberals have used another term -- which sounds the same in spoken Mandarin but is written with a different character; this one is often translated as "rule of law," meaning that the entire nation, including the party, is governed under the law.
In a recent essay, Li Shenzhi -- a former vice president of the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences who was sacked for not supporting the 1989 crackdown on student demonstrations -- writes that there is a big difference: Under "rule of law," he says, "no one is above the law or exempted by it." Not even a party chief.

What's That He Said?
So heads turned when the official written Chinese version of Mr. Jiang's speech used that second formulation. Was President Jiang floating a serious change in attitude? Or was his speechwriter merely toying with the country's intellectuals?
Mr. Li's essay appears in a recent book, "Political China: Facing the Era of Choosing a New Structure" (China Today Publishing House), in which Mr. Li shows himself to be an aggressive touch-ball player. At one point, he writes that China "should quickly adopt the common concept of the world: 'Human rights are civil rights.' "
The book, which includes articles by scholars and former officials, exemplifies the touch-ball approach. The clear intent is to foster discussion of serious change. Yet facing the title page is an artfully selected quotation from Mr. Deng, whose vaguest utterances, now elevated to the level of theory, are used by Mr. Jiang to legitimize his program. The quote reads, "If you only carry out economic system reform and not political system reform, then economic system reform will not work." It continues, "Whether all of our reforms ultimately succeed is dependent on political system reform."
The apparent homage may signal that the book is not intended to challenge the system brazenly in the manner of an impudent dissident like the exiled Wei Jingsheng. Nor does the book ever include words like "multiparty politics" or "direct election of national leaders." Aiming that far off the table would have guaranteed that the book would be banned.
The book prudently includes a spectrum of views, including an essay by a close adviser to President Jiang, Wang Huning. He calls for "political structural reform" in order to build a "socialist political system with Chinese characteristics" -- under the party's leadership. That, of course, lands well in the middle of the ping-pong table.
A spray of touch-balls, in contrast, comes from Liu Junning, a political scientist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences who prefers exploring "liberal democracy" to "people's democracy." In one essay, "The Market Economy and Limited Government," he writes, "Individual property rights and a free market economy will not automatically lead to democracy, but without property rights and markets, it's absolutely impossible to have democracy." He also writes, "Guaranteeing property rights not only needs democracy, it also needs constitutional government and rule of law."
But many liberals find it puzzling and frightening that the authorities recently arrested one of the two journalists who were the book's editors. Shi Binhai, a senior editor of The China Economic Times, was detained on Sept. 5 by state security agents who gave his family no reason. Mr. Shi's associates say they do not believe his involvement with the book, which continues to sell in Chinese bookstores, was the reason. Apparently it was through some other, undisclosed, activity that Mr. Shi missed the edge of the table.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Corners for dissent: A sculpture at Hong Kong University, honoring victims of the Tiananmen Square massacre, waits to be erected. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (95%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (88%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (72%); WRITERS (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK JIANG ZEMIN (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



541 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Shadow Play -- Washington's Gears, Grinding;
Surprise: Government's Not Necessarily Paralyzed

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
GIVEN the sheer volume of energy expended in weighing President Clinton's fate, given Washington's horrified fascination with every tawdry detail of his behavior, it would be easy to assume that the machinery of government and policy making has ground to a halt.
But on Capitol Hill last week, the Republican-controlled Congress began consideration of a tax cut, renewed its efforts to limit some late-term abortions, started wrapping up the spending bills needed to keep the Federal Government operating and pushed ahead with an overhaul of the bankruptcy system. 
 Hobbled though he may be, President Clinton set in motion an international effort to contain the financial crisis that began last year in Asia, considered a plea from the Pentagon for more money, received a report from his advisory commission on race and directed that the Government purchase only recycled paper.
It was hardly business as usual, and the effect of Mr. Clinton's woes on Washington will only grow with each Congressional move toward impeachment. At risk in particular are efforts to set the nation's course on big, evolving issues that require strong Presidential leadership, like shoring up Social Security or dealing decisively with ethnic conflicts and terrorism. Already, some Administration officials admit that it is all but impossible to get the attention of the President or top White House staff, boding ill for any policy initiatives working their way up the chain of command.
But the Federal Government has tremendous momentum, and even in times of war and political crisis it has a way of grinding relentlessly on. Moreover, the very threat of drift and paralysis in this case has provided both parties with tremendous incentive to keep pushing a substantive agenda -- maybe even to push harder than they would otherwise.
Republicans, confronting an electorate impatient with rabidly partisan politics and uncertain about how Mr. Clinton's transgressions should be punished, are hedging their bets; even as they turn up the heat on the President, they are taking every opportunity to tout their social and economic initiatives and their focus on the people's business.
 
Pressing Ahead

 Eager as well to probe for weakened resolve and cohesion among Democrats, Republicans have also decided to see what happens if they press on issues they had earlier given up on, most notably a tax cut this year.
For his part, Mr. Clinton said he should not be "trying to obscure my own personal acknowledgment and chagrin about what I did wrong." But it does not take a "Wag the Dog" scenario for a President to change the subject, as Mr. Clinton well knows, and last week he was clearly taking the opportunity to do so.
Halting the spread of the Asian financial crisis, he said, "is about the most important issue facing the world community." The Republican plan to finance tax cuts by dipping into projected budget surpluses could endanger the nation's fiscal health and undermine efforts to shore up the Social Security system, he said, fairly spoiling for an ideological, pre-election fight that could help unify his demoralized party.
Yet for Mr. Clinton, the situation creates a paradox. The more he talks about issues, the greater the sense that he is deliberately diverting attention from his own problems. Even pressing matters, like striking back at terrorists or protecting the nation's long economic expansion, can seem props in his personal drama.
Many people in Washington remember going down this route before. Consumed by Watergate in 1974, the nation floundered in many ways, not least in addressing the economic turmoil set off by the Arab oil embargo. Congress nonetheless found time to raise the minimum wage, limit school busing and establish Federal financing of election campaigns.
"At the time I was astounded at the resiliency both of the Government and of the people," said Bill Frenzel, who was a second-term Republican Congressman from Minnesota in 1974 and served in the House until 1990.
"The Government did not fall down, and actually most decisions that people could see and feel were made and the Government went right on operating and doing a reasonable job of it," he said. "I would say it's going to be similar this time. That is, we're at risk of falling behind in foreign policy, trade and security, but the things that people see and touch every day will reveal to them an operating Government that's doing just fine."
To some degree, Washington is a slave to the calendar. The Government's new fiscal year will start Oct. 1 regardless of Mr. Clinton's troubles, and that means Congress and the Administration have to agree on 13 spending bills, many of which are ideological battlegrounds, in the next few weeks. Presidential vetoes seem likely, and a partial shutdown of the Government is not out of the question.
Impeachment proceedings aside, Republicans were already on the defensive over Democratic complaints that this has been a do-nothing Congress, intent on little more than killing initiatives like tobacco legislation and an overhaul of health care regulation.
Still, it is an open question how much new policy will get a hearing once the immediate issues are out of the way. Dana G. Mead, the chairman of Tenneco Inc., a big manufacturer, was in Washington last week talking to Administration officials and members of Congress about issues of concern to the Business Roundtable, an organization of corporate chief executives that he heads.
Mr. Mead, who watched Watergate unfold as a domestic policy adviser in the Nixon Administration, came away wondering whether the White House and Congress would be able to take on any but the most pressing issues, especially if the impeachment process moves ahead.
"There are certain things that they must do, things that are important to their constituents or the national interest or both," Mr. Mead said. Beyond that, he said, the "nice to do items" will languish and a kind of rationing of time and attention will kick in.
There is already evidence of that phenomenon at work. Democrats despair that a weakened Mr. Clinton has been less effective than he would have been otherwise in rallying support this fall for an increase in the minimum wage and action on health care. The White House spin machine, which made an art of promoting small-bore policy initiatives, is now consumed with the President's day to day survival.
 
One-Track Minds
Policymakers within the Administration and some politicians from both sides of the aisle in Congress already admit to being discouraged.
After the campaign-finance overhaul bill that he co-sponsored suffered another procedural defeat earlier this month, Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, was asked if he would continue bringing up the bill in the hopes of creating more pressure for its passage.
"Not as long as the President has got the problems he has," Mr. McCain said. "We don't talk about HMO's anymore, we don't talk about taxes anymore, we don't talk about Social Security anymore. There's only one thing on everybody's mind and everybody knows it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A light in the Capitol Dome means Congress is in session: Even at times of Presidential crisis, the nation's business gets done. How well is another question. (pg. 1); Busy on the Hill: Gingrich on school funding...and the Fed chairman (right) on the economy. (pg. 16) (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; ETHICS US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ETHICS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); ABORTION (56%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (55%); TERRORISM (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W; LEWINSKY, MONICA S BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



542 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Running In Place

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
A few months ago a guy said to me, "If the economy is doing so great, how come I'm broke?"
A new study out of Washington shows that there are an awful lot of Americans who might ask the same question. 
 The study by the Economic Policy Institute is titled "The State of Working America" and has been published in book form. It doesn't dispute that the economy has improved since the dark days of the early-90's recession, but points out that there are still enormous numbers of middle-class and working-class Americans who have little or no reason to celebrate.
The study's findings included the following:
* The inflation-adjusted earnings of the median worker in 1997 were 3.1 percent lower than in 1989. Over that period, real hourly wages either stagnated or fell for most of the bottom 60 percent of the working population.
* Median family income was $1,000 less in 1996 (the most recent year for which complete data are available) than in 1989. Economists believe the final statistics for 1997, available later this week, will show some improvement, but only enough to bring the median income back to the 1989 level.
* The "typical married-couple family" worked 247 more hours per year in 1996 than in 1989 despite an 8 percent growth in the economy's productive capacity. That's more than six weeks' worth of additional work, just to stay even or keep from falling too far behind.
The report notes that early this year unemployment fell to its lowest point in three decades and, very recently, real wages have begun to rise for most workers. But those improvements have come at the end of a prolonged period of wage deterioration and other setbacks that have had a profound effect on the standard of living of most American families.
According to the report, "The typical American family is probably worse off near the end of the 1990's than it was at the end of the 1980's or the end of the 1970's." It says, "To the extent that the typical American family has been able to hold its ground, the most important factor has been the large increase in the hours worked by family members."
Except for the very wealthy, we are in something less than a golden economic age. The heralded stock market advances of the 90's have primarily benefited the wealthy few, despite the increased popularity of mutual funds and the expansion of defined-contribution retirement plans. Most families own no stock at all. Those that do own stock usually have very small investments.
According to the institute's study, more than 85 percent of the benefits from "the increase in the stock market between 1989 and 1997 went to the richest 10 percent of households."
The very recent and very modest gains in the real wages of American workers were largely linked to the tight labor market, which heightened the bargaining power of workers, and increases in the minimum wage.
Jared Bernstein, a co-author of the report with Lawrence Mishel and John Schmitt, applauded the policy decisions that led to those improvements. But he added that the low unemployment rate is a particularly "thin reed" for working families to hang onto.
"It's a cyclical variable," he said, "and the focus of the Federal Reserve has been imbalanced. It has been overly concerned about inflation and the erosion of the assets of the wealthy, and has not appreciated the importance of persistently low unemployment in reversing the long-term negative trends for working families."
As for the minimum wage, now $5.15 an hour, the feeling of the Republican majority in Congress is that we have gone far enough. Senator Edward Kennedy has proposed raising it by 50 cents an hour in January, and another 50 cents a year later. That way, as the Senator put it, "the minimum wage will reach the level of $6.15 at the turn of the century."
Some politicians will tell you that terrible things will happen if companies are required to pay American workers $6.15 an hour in the year 2000. On Tuesday a key vote is scheduled on Senator Kennedy's proposal. The hunt is on for enough votes to save it.
One of these days policy makers will come to realize that you can't sustain a real boom if workers and their families aren't getting a fair shake. The value of low unemployment and an honest day's pay for an honest day's work should not be matters for debate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; STANDARD OF LIVING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); MARRIAGE (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB EDWARD KENNEDY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



543 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 38; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: That Delicate Balance: What About the Dads?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Women and Their Work: How Life Inundates Art" (Aug. 23), about a Brooklyn reading group's reactions to "mommy books" and their own balancing of the challenges of work and raising children: 
 The next time you do a roundtable about work and family, try inviting men. Could you imagine asking a group of fathers who are also lawyers, artists and editors how they do the balancing?
Men rarely must choose between raising children and pursuing careers. And when they have children, few ask employers to consider flexible schedules, part-time positions or time off to care for a 6-year-old with a stomach bug. Indeed, for some men even scaling back to a 40-hour work week might seem risky.
I, for one, would love to hear men agonize over this issue with the same concern, self-reflection and honesty as the women showed in the article.
 
SUZANNE KEATING
Providence, R.I., Aug. 26

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (68%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (68%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WOMEN; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MEN; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (87%); WORK WEEK (86%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (86%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



544 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 38; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 142 words

HEADLINE: That Delicate Balance: What About the Dads?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
While those of us who stay home with our children cringe at the phrase sometimes used to describe us -- "sitting at home" -- there is some wonderful truth in the words. 
 I work very hard in my home, feeding, cleaning, teaching, loving and picking up after my children. But I choose to be at home with them -- in no way a luxury -- so that I can sit. I sit down to breast-feed my babies, to snuggle and hold them. I sit down to read them stories, to watch "Barney and Friends" with them and to look them in the eye and discuss the difficulty of the day. Sometimes I get to sit down with a sandwich and have sincere conversations with my 7-year-old, who starts the day asking "Why?"
My choice is not about working; it is about my children and who is best to sit with them.
 
CANDACE MOORE HILL
Evanston, Ill., Aug. 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (64%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (64%); ILLINOIS, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; WOMEN LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FAMILY (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



545 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY;
Hopes for Rate Cuts Are Raised, Then Dashed

 BODY:
The week began with President Clinton hoping to strike up the Group of Seven band of major economic powers in a rousing chorus of coordinated interest rate cuts, to relieve the pressure on embattled Latin American countries like Brazil that are struggling to contain currency and debt crises. World financial markets took heart. 
 But by midweek all was disharmony, thanks to political paralysis in Japan, election distractions in Germany and muddy political and economic waters in the United States. The chief soloist, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, made it clear that no sweet music would be forthcoming -- and the markets, disappointed, sank once more.
The week closed to the clangor of printing presses, as Russia's central bank, against all advice, tried papering over economic chasms with freshly minted rubles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (62%); GROUP OF SEVEN (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



546 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: PRIVATE SECTOR;
IN MY BRIEFCASE/JEFFREY D. SACHS

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
Jeffrey D. Sachs, director of the Harvard Institute for International Development, spends roughly one-third of his life on the road, giving lectures and troubleshooting the institute's economic development projects from Indonesia to southern Africa. This day, he packed light for the flight back to Boston from Jacksonville, Fla., but included a lot of reading material in his briefcase, "in case we get stuck on the runway."
 The adapter plug "I take everywhere," he said. "You can plug it into an airport phone anywhere in the world and read your E-mail." And the ballpoint pens are "no-name cheapos -- I'd lose anything good in a minute." Indeed, conspicuously missing is his beloved Psion electronic organizer, which he used to fiddle with during dull meetings. "I left it on an airplane," he lamented. 
 Topping his reading list is "Consilience" by Edward O. Wilson, the sociobiologist. ("Everyone at
 the institute is reading Wilson right now," he said.) But the list also includes "Interactions of Desertification and Climate" and "Roll Back Malaria" because, he said, "Africa's on my mind."
 He likes his black canvas briefcase because it is "flexible enough to be stuffed."
 PETER PASSELL

GRAPHIC: Photos:
THE BRIEFCASE
It's convenient and lightweight.
 
MISSING: THE ORGANIZER
Relieving the boredom at meetings is harder now.
 
KOREA FOCUS
We're very much involved in the Asian financial crisis.
 
THE ADAPTER PLUG
He won't leave home without it.
 
BALLPOINT PENS
The cheaper, the better.
 
(Photographs by Ed Quinn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (91%); INDONESIA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (72%); NORTHERN ASIA (59%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); HARVARD INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (91%); INDONESIA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (72%); NORTHERN ASIA (59%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (88%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (77%); MALARIA (72%); LAND DEGRADATION (51%); 

PERSON: SACHS, JEFFREY D; PASSELL, PETER EDWARD O WILSON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



547 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
Jobless Rate in New Jersey Drops to 4.8 Percent

BYLINE: By KIRSTY SUCATO

 BODY:
New Jersey's unemployment rate fell a tenth of a percentage point to 4.8 percent in August, but remained above the national average of 4.5 percent even though the number of jobs reached a record high, the State Department of Labor reported on Tuesday. 
 Payroll jobs rose by 7,500 to 3,803,900, reversing losses of 5,400 in July. The gains were partly due to the return of 2,900 workers at the General Motors plant in Linden, who were idled by a strike of parts makers in Flint, Mich.
The largest growth was in the service sector, which gained 4,000 new jobs, a department spokesman said. KIRSTY SUCATO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); STATE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (86%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



548 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Brazilians Fret as Economic Threat Moves Closer

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Until recently, it seemed that Augusta Aparecida Pettinari's fortunes and the country's economic reform plan ran on parallel tracks, like twin locomotives taking the young receptionist and the modern currency toward a steadily more promising future.
As once-rampant inflation was brought down to negligible levels, Ms. Pettinari joined an emerging class of consumers, whose salaries for the first time maintained their purchasing power from one paycheck to the next. She smiles now as she remembers buying appliances, of going to the movies and of writing a check for a new dress. 
 "I was able to have a social life," she said.
The man Brazilians elected President four years ago in gratitude for taming inflation was Fernando Henrique Cardoso, the former Finance Minister. To back the new currency that gave his Real Plan its name, there was an array of proposed structural changes to attract foreign investment, privatize state industries and reform social security, the Civil Service and tax systems.
But now, two weeks before the Oct. 4 election, in which Mr. Cardoso is to seek another term in office, the financial tornado that has devastated parts of Asia and Russia has begun spinning toward Brazil.
In the last month, nearly $1 billion a day in foreign reserves has been flying out of the country, while the black market rate for dollars has veered from 2 cents above the official rate to more than 30 cents. Over the last seven trading days, the stock market has bounced from 15.8 percent losses one day to 18.7 percent gains the next, and then back down again this week after Alan Greenspan, the United States Federal Reserve chairman, ruled out lowering interest rates. The country has doubled the ceiling on interbank loan rates, to 49.75 percent from 24.75 percent.
And suddenly, the train that Ms. Pettinari once thought was carrying her steadily upward toward prosperity feels more like a roller coaster. Come Oct. 5, the day after the election, the now-unemployed receptionist confesses, she has no notion at all where this wild ride will take her.
"If we stay along the same lines we've been on, we'll manage," said Ms. Pettinari, 28. Then she recalled her country's last economic crisis in 1990, when Fernando Collor de Mello began his presidency by freezing all personal bank accounts and allowing Brazilians access to only $50 each. "But who really knows what lunacy is coming?"
Brazil, the world's ninth-largest economy and the pacesetter for Latin America, is once again in danger of collapse, this time crippled by growing current account and fiscal deficits. While Brazil does not have the threat of political instability or nuclear weaponry that makes a breakdown in Russia so fearsome, the opening of its markets has drawn billions of dollars in American investment, and its fall would bring economic turbulence dangerously close to American shores.
Brazil's budget deficit, at more than 7 percent of gross national product, and its current account deficit, at $35 billion, threaten to swell further with the steep interest increases of recent weeks, despite announcements of drastic budget cuts. Over the next two months, some $80 billion in Brazilian debt will need to be rolled over. According to Merrill Lynch, American banks had $27.2 billion at stake in Brazil at the end of March. In Russia, they had only $6.8 billion tied up. Moody's and Standard & Poor's downgraded Brazil this month.
For now, voters are holding fast to Mr. Cardoso, as the most responsible figure to face the looming crisis. In the most recent poll, 49 percent of those who responded supported him, a 27-point advantage over Luis Inacio Lula da Silva, a former auto workers union president and three-time presidential candidate of the leftist Worker's Party.
"Lula would be very strong on social issues, but a President isn't only that," said Daniella Cristina Turri, a 20-year-old office worker who has been trying to find work for four months. "The most important thing is the economy. It's the basis for everything else."
Already months behind on her night school tuition, however, Ms. Turri is no longer sure that she will vote for President Cardoso.
"Everything's getting worse for us," she said. "There are times when you think about leaving the country, because it doesn't give you any way to make a living." Unemployment in Sao Paulo, the financial and industrial heart of Brazil, is 19 percent, and is expected to worsen.
Though he is still well liked on Wall Street, Mr. Cardoso has lost credibility as investors battered by losses in Asia and Russia weigh his failure to deliver needed reforms. On his first presidential visit to the United States, in April 1995, Mr. Cardoso visited New York before Washington, underscoring the importance of investment to his country's future.
The President won fans in world financial capitals by removing exchange controls, opening markets and selling off state industries. Last year, with $17 billion coming in, Brazil became the world's third-largest market for direct foreign investment, following the United States and China.
But Mr. Cardoso proved less successful at getting the Government to live by the same fiscal discipline forced on middle-class Brazilians. Politically costly overhauls were either put off, as with tax reform; fumbled, as with social security reform; or were passed but not carried out, as with civil service reform. An assembly line of privatizations, however, helped offset soaring Government costs.
Mr. Cardoso contends that Brazil's vulnerability is not his or the country's doing, but the product of outside forces, and he is calling for a new international monetary system for the global era. The market reacts to every sign of outside backing for Brazil, in the form of reduced American interest rates, a bailout by the International Monetary Fund, or an I.M.F. line of credit. But so far, Brazil has not formally requested an I.M.F. bailout and Mr. Cardoso is loath to embrace I.M.F. conditions before election day.
The Government had already announced cutbacks to raise a primary account surplus of .87 percent, but reports here say the I.M.F. would demand a primary surplus closer to 3 percent next year as the price of its bailout. The primary account covers revenues less expenses, without interest on debts.
These days, Mr. Cardoso is walking a delicate line to election day, nudged by his politician's instincts that suggest that doomsday speeches about tax increases, unemployment and sacrifice are not the stuff of landslides, and by an international investment community clamoring for proof that Brazil will get its fiscal house in order, and soon.
"The only positive byproduct for Brazil is that he'll have to do these fiscal reforms," said Joel Korn, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Rio de Janeiro.
Brazil's most likely initial steps will combine tax increases, import restrictions and cost-cutting measures. Investors are expecting Mr. Cardoso to push through reforms before the lame duck Congress dissolves at year's end. The President has ruled out a devaluation, which would undoubtedly reignite inflation, but it is by no means certain, investment analysts say, that the country will not be forced into one. In recent days, the stream of reserves leaving Brazil has slowed to under $500 million a day, and the difference between official and black market exchange rates has narrowed.
More than ever, it appears that Mr. Cardoso, who spent considerable time and political capital pushing a constitutional amendment through Congress allowing presidents to run for re-election, will win on the first round. But he has never stood closer to seeing his legacy crumble in his hands. His inauguration is expected to be not so much a coronation, as his rivals once feared, but the threshold to a new era of sacrifice.
Even those struggling through a shrinking economy, though, say they would prefer sacrifice to inflation. Ms. Pettinari has been watching the sandwich boards with job offerings on Barao de Parana Piacaba street since April, when she lost her job.
She got married five months ago, but both she and her husband, who had been a bill-collector, are out of work, and have to live apart, he with his parents, she with hers.
"If it weren't for them, I'd go hungry," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brazilians worry that their period of economic stability may be coming to an end. Daniella Cristina Turri, 20, an office worker who has been trying to find work, read job ads on sandwich boards in downtown Sao Paulo. (Alex Silva for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (78%); TRAINS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); POLITICS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (65%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (54%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



549 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: After Dispute In Pakistan, Leader Leaves For U.S. Visit

BYLINE: By BARRY BEARAK 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif leaves for the United States today and could not have picked a better time for a getaway, with people here feeling he has just tried to eliminate democracy from the Constitution.
Whatever lies ahead for him this week -- and his schedule includes meetings with President Clinton and Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee of India as well as a speech before the United Nations -- the days should seem tranquil compared with those he just left behind. 
 Last week, two of Mr. Sharif's pet measures ran into unruly opposition in Parliament. One was a bill that gave the Prime Minister more power, all in the name of Allah, and the other was a permission slip to sign a nuclear test-ban treaty as a means to solicit aid from Western donors. In both instances, however worthy his intentions, Mr. Sharif's political antennae relayed all the wrong signals.
"He doesn't seem to ever think before he does something," said Maleeha Lodhi, a newspaper editor and former envoy to the United States. "He makes sudden moves and then ends up governing by retreat."
Mr. Sharif's plans to amend the Constitution were announced on Aug. 28, an unhappy time for him when the only distraction from rising prices in this near-bankrupt nation was the recent United States missile attack on suspected terrorist bases in neighboring Afghanistan. Mr. Sharif was widely thought to be insufficiently irate about the bombardment of an Islamic neighbor.
He chose this difficult moment to propose that Islamic justice be made the supreme law of the land, a tactical mix of politics and religion with a long history here.
"We must go down on our knees and bow before Allah," Mr. Sharif, a millionaire industrialist, said. By his reckoning, holy practices were the only way to end the nation's many years of "corruption, gratification and maladministration."
What he meant by full Islamic law was left vague, although he did promise to protect individual and minority rights. He denied trying to remold moderate and modern Pakistan into something like the Afghanistan of the Taliban.
Even a number of the devout questioned the need for the proposal. The Constitution already proclaims Pakistan an Islamic state, subject to the religion's fundamental principles.
For many, the true motive for Mr. Sharif's bill rested less in piety than in politics. It would change some essential numbers: in matters of Islam, a simple majority in both houses of Parliament -- rather than the current two-thirds -- would suffice to amend the Constitution. Also, the Prime Minister would be empowered to issue decrees that further entrenched Islamic practices.
What would then stop him, critics asked, from pushing bills through the legislature in the name of Allah? Could he dissolve Parliament if he considered its actions un-Islamic?
If Mr. Sharif expected support from Pakistan's small but vocal Islamic parties, he was mistaken. "He is exploiting the Koran to serve his own interests," said Amir-ul-Azeem of the Jamaat-e-Islami. "If the Government really wants to enforce Islamic law, the laws are now sufficient. The problem is in the practices, not in the laws."
Despite the opposition, Mr. Sharif expected his bill to pass last week. Instead even members of his own majority party, the Muslim League, rebelled. They, too, questioned his motives. Some threatened to quit. And, after a stormy late-night meeting on Thursday, Mr. Sharif announced that he was in no great haste to see the law passed.
Efforts to get comment from Mr. Sharif's Information Ministry as well as his Minister for Religious Affairs received no response.
Similar political pratfalls accompanied Mr. Sharif's request for a resolution of support on the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. He seems inclined to forswear any further nuclear tests, such as the ones he orderedin May after India, Pakistan's great rival and neighbor, had exploded its own nuclear devices. But first he wants the United States to end economic sanctions imposed after the blasts -- and to help Pakistan get an aid package that would, at least temporarily, keep it from defaulting on $30 billion in international debt.
Although the Prime Minister does not need legislative approval to sign the treaty, he asked for it anyway. He had reason to expect little resistance. His chief political opponent, Benazir Bhutto, head of the Pakistan People's Party, has urged him to sign.
But many members of Parliament were reluctant to agree without knowing the details of negotiations with the Americans.
When Mr. Sharif was not forthcoming, most opposition parties boycotted a special session of Parliament. The resolution was withdrawn.
What might have been termed a laudable effort at building consensus instead became "another bit of confused theatrics," the newspaper Dawn noted in an editorial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN; UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; ISLAM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS PRIME MINISTERS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); LEGISLATION (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TALIBAN (70%); TERRORISM (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); PRICE INCREASES (51%); 

PERSON: SHARIF, NAWAZ (PRIME MIN); BEARAK, BARRY NAWAZ SHARIF (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



550 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1903 words

HEADLINE: Better Schools Is Battle Cry for Fall Elections

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER 

 BODY:
The Democratic candidate for governor in South Carolina, Jim Hodges, has chosen as his logo a drawing of the back of a school bus and the slogan "It's all about our schools."
In Texas, Gov. George W. Bush, a Republican, is running a television advertisement that declares, "No goal is more important than making sure all Texas schoolchildren are able to read." 
 In California, voters ended 30 years of bilingual education by referendum in June and face another initiative over reduced class size in November.
And across the country this election season, scores of candidates for Senate and House seats, like the Democrats Charles E. Schumer of New York and Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, are focusing on schools, vowing that if sent to Washington, they will get the Government involved in cutting the nation's class sizes, repairing school buildings and making them safer for learning.
"If there is a single motivating force in my public life," said Representative Glenn Poshard, an Illinois Democrat running for governor, in a comment that is echoed by candidates everywhere, "it is to provide a meaningful education to every child in this state."
While education has long been one of the voters' top five or six concerns, along with crime, drugs, the economy and foreign threats, the issue has been cited by pollsters this year as the voters' primary focus, especially in the many states with gubernatorial elections. Despite both parties' focus on the Clinton scandal, Democrats are emphasizing their traditional stake in education policy while Republicans are seeking to make the education issue their own.
But the impact of all this attention is far from clear, education advocates say. Is the talk of standards, class size and safety leading to improved education or merely serving candidates as "family values" campaign themes?
Chester E. Finn Jr., a senior fellow at the Hudson Institute in Washington and a leading conservative voice in education, says the vast majority of new state standards for students, instituted under political pressure, are too low to be meaningful and the bulk of campaign talk about education is useless or misleading.
"As in so many other policy debates, much of the education campaigning is based on focus groups and political consultant input," he said. "Look at Clinton's and other people's class-size reduction scheme. It is costly and problematic. Costly, because you have to hire more teachers and payroll is already the largest portion of the budget. Problematic, because there is so little evidence that, apart from kindergarten and first grade, class-size reduction produces any better education."
He added: "American class sizes have been shrinking for 50 years. Many countries that beat the pants off of us in international comparisons have much larger class sizes than we do. The biggest immediate effect of reducing class size in most places will be to draw more unqualified people into teaching and suck good teachers out of urban into suburban schools. Nonetheless, everyone is proposing class-size reduction."
Others say that the focus on education has produced results.
Robert B. Schwartz, president of Achieve Inc., a bipartisan and corporate-government partnership to improve schools, says efforts have paid off in states like Kentucky, Maryland, Washington and Oregon, where reasonable standards have been established, businesses are focusing on applicants' school records in hiring, and accountability procedures have been instituted for schools.
He said teacher quality had come under greater scrutiny, too, with many states raising the bar for certification and some, like Massachusetts, using budget surpluses to attract better candidates for teaching jobs with signing bonuses.
"I do think that in a significant number of states, the political conversation about education is qualitatively different than it was in the past," Mr. Schwartz said. "This is not just the equivalent of family values as a campaign theme. Many states have not only adopted standards but put in place assessments and systems of accountability."
Patricia Albjerg Graham, a professor and former dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Education, said: "The most important result of this prolonged debate on education has been the widespread conviction that children of all social classes are now expected to learn academic material. The idea that educational achievement is for everybody is revolutionary. That's real progress."
The debate over education often tracks the conservative-liberal divide over school governance and standards. Generally, conservatives favor local control and more rigorous standards while liberals tend toward a national approach and, while mindful of the need for standards, they emphasize inclusiveness.
"I find it hard to believe we are going to achieve national standards on education because liberals oppose standards and conservatives oppose national," mused Arthur Levine, president of Teachers College at Columbia University, who has been receiving a growing number of calls from politicians seeking briefings.
Nonetheless, what is striking about the debate is that if there is not agreement on the means, there is near-universal consensus on the ends of this education campaign.
"The traditionalists have won," remarked Larry Cuban, an education professor at Stanford University. "New math and whole-language reading are in retreat. Today there are more phonics, more multiplication tables, more tests. There is a consensus between the public and officials that the basic, traditional model is the one to pursue. Whatever experimentation is occurring today challenges the boundaries far less than two to three decades ago."
This means that in their public appearances both Democrats and Republicans are saying rather similar things about education -- vowing to provide more of it with better equipment, safer classrooms and better teachers -- with their disagreements focused on how to get there: whether to confront teachers' unions or cooperate with them, raise taxes or shift revenues, focus on traditional public schools or on alternatives, like government vouchers to pay for private schooling or independent but publicly financed schools known as charter schools.
Polls show the voters to be unsure which path is the more efficient -- they tend to favor most options that sound as if they would lead to improvements -- suggesting that candidates are competing over driving home their message that they care.
One reason there seems to be such a consensus on education is that the economic rationale for schooling has triumphed. As the economy has shifted from an industrial to a white-collar base, Americans have become increasingly persuaded that their children's personal financial success will depend on what kind of education they receive. This means that campaigning about education does not displace campaigning about the economy -- it is a proxy for it.
Economics aside, the prominence of education as a political issue results from a confluence of factors.
First, ever since "A Nation at Risk," the explosive 1983 attack on the quality of American public schools, policy makers, including President George Bush and President Clinton, have focused on schooling, and the impact of their sustained attention is being felt. Second, the 1990's, dominated by the breakup of the Soviet Union, a rising stock market and a plummeting urban crime rate, shifted the focus away from traditional front-runner issues, granting education more attention. Third, the demographically powerful baby-boom generation has children throughout the school system, so the boomers' attention is focused on the issue.
Moreover, women are often heavily involved in educational issues, so focusing on the issues is a way to appeal to them as voters. And finally, with the military draft ended, the public school system is one of the remaining places for large-scale inculcation of values. The system has had to bear a growing share of societal goals -- fighting poverty, absorbing immigrants, preparing the public for a multiracial future and instilling in the young a sense of moral order and discipline.
On this last point, many experts see voter concern over education to be largely anxiety over their children's character.
"Astute politicians realize that a lot of us are worried about our kids," said Theodore R. Sizer, an author who advocates school reform. "The moral dimension and the safety dimension overlap. More and more families are frightened by what they see."
Charles L. Glenn, a professor of education policy at Boston University, agrees. "There is a diffuse, general idea that America is going to hell on issues of moral character," he said. "Most parents say they are worried about discipline. What kind of kids will my kids be in contact with? Are my kids going to come home as strangers with different values than mine? Conservatives talk about school choice because they see the current monopoly of content to be relativistic."
Conservatives also focus on school choice because they think it will improve schools generally. They say that one of the most positive results of all the recent attention on education has been to open up school systems to competition from charter schools and vouchers.
"Twenty years ago, President Reagan tried to free markets from a lot of impediments like unions and taxation," remarked Lamar Alexander, the former Education Secretary and Tennessee Governor, who is expected to seek the Republican Presidential nomination in 2000.
"His idea was, if we free the market, we can get a good economy," Mr. Alexander said. "That's what we need to do with schools. We need to free the schools from all those impediments like unions and outdated practices. Let them flourish. America does best when we pursue freedom and choice and allow ingenuity to flourish.
"If there were a Republican President to lead the charge and give courage to governors and education entrepreneurs," he said, "sometime in the next 5 to 10 years we would see real results with higher academic achievement."
Others see the issue differently.
"If we were serious about our educational problems, we would go see what other nations are doing," said Marc S. Tucker of the National Center on Education and the Economy. "Not one of them is using vouchers as the secret of its success. They set high standards and have exams and curriculum to match. There is very little choice in the curriculum. This is true from Singapore to Japan to Denmark.
"It is universally applicable," he said. "Yet it doesn't apply here? That's absurd."
Nonetheless, tests and standards are slowly being installed in many states. In New York, for example, high school students will soon have to pass Regents examinations on more and more subjects to graduate.
All experts questioned said the real political test would be how voters react when, or if, many children fail such exams.
"Everybody is for high test scores till their kids get low test scores," Mr. Sizer remarked. "There is a kind of unreality to the policy debate. Are we really going to shut down schools that don't perform? I think the rhetoric and self-righteous table pounding will stop when the reality sets in. The attention will shift to a more varied approach. If all this attention doesn't lead ultimately to improved education, we have certainly blown it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat, is vowing to work for improvements in schools in his race for a United States Senate seat in New York. He campaigned last week at Public School 192 in Harlem. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times); Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, a Republican, sharing a lesson in March with a first grader, has kept education as a campaign theme. (Associated Press)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (73%); BILINGUAL EDUCATION (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); FAMILY (72%); MULTILINGUALISM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%); FOCUS GROUPS (50%); 

PERSON: BRONNER, ETHAN CHARLES SCHUMER (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



551 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: In New Wild West, It's Cowboys vs. Radical Environmentalists

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: ERVAY, Wyo., Sept. 15

 BODY:
Robert L. Hendry should feel at ease, running a vast cattle ranch smack in the center of a state that since 1936 has treasured its trademark logo: a cowboy riding a bucking bronco.
But this real live cowboy darkened today at the memory of a rash of vandalism that struck ranchers along the Rattlesnake Range here as fundamentally "un-Wyoming." In mid-June, as the Wyoming Stock Growers Association was meeting in Casper, 40 miles east of here, a carload of vandals traveled 100 miles up and down dirt roads here, cutting 260 sections of barbed-wire fence. 
"Just in time for the welfare cowboys' convention," read leaflets nailed to fence posts. No group has taken responsibility for the action and no arrests have been made. But two months earlier, Earth First Journal, a clearinghouse for the radical environmental movement, hailed "rampant fence cutting" in central Wyoming, concluding with an appeal, "Dust off those wire cutters, folks!"
In this modern range war, radical environmentalists seek to force grazing cattle off public land by cutting fences and otherwise carrying out economic sabotage against ranching operations. With beef prices low, many Western ranchers already have their financial backs to the wall.
Now, in a throwback to the 19th century when fence cutting was a hanging offense in the wilder parts of the West, violence looms over barbed wire in big sky country.
"For their own safety, they better lay off," Mr. Hendry warned of the people who cut his fences in 60 places. "If the right group finds them, they might get shot."
Agreement came from Chuck Sylvester, a neighboring rancher who was also a target of the fence cutters, who drove a sports utility vehicle. He said: "Some day, they are going to make a mistake. Any number of my neighbors are now carrying rifles. They could knock out a tire, knock out a knee."
Across the West, stakes are rising in the battle between mainstream society and radical environmentalists and animal rights groups.
Last week, in one of the toughest sentences handed down in a case of animal rights terrorism, a Salt Lake City judge gave a seven-year sentence to Douglas Joshua Ellerman, a 20-year-old Animal Liberation Front member, for his role in the 1997 firebombing of Utah's principal mink breeders' cooperative.
 On Thursday, an Earth First member, David Chain, was killed by a falling tree as he tried to block the logging of ancient redwoods in Northern California. It is the first time a member of the group has been killed in more than a decade of confrontational protests.
In cattle country, vandalism has escalated to the point where more and more ranchers are starting to speak out. In Wyoming, a crackdown on fence cutters has become a campaign issue in this fall's county sheriff races.
"This has been going on for three or more years, but we have kept it quiet," said Ken Hamilton, a leader of the Wyoming Farm Bureau, an agricultural group. "We didn't want to give the terrorists more oxygen."
In central Wyoming, batches of fences were cut four times last year. But the public did not become aware until June 20, when the wide-scale attack on fences here was reported in The Casper Star-Tribune.
"My concern is: How far are they going to go?" said Sgt. Michael Sandfort, who is investigating the case here for the Natrona County Sheriff's Department. "Cut fences are an irritation. But what if we get shot livestock, destroyed windmills, shot up water tanks? Then we are talking big bucks."
Across the West, many environmentalists oppose allowing ranchers to graze livestock on Federal lands, whether national forests or lands of the Bureau of Land Management.
"Cows munch the trees, they destabilize the stream banks by tromping up and down, they compact the soil with their hooves," said Peter Galvin, a conservation biologist for the Southwest Center for Biological Diversity, a Tucson group that seeks to curtail ranching on public lands through lawsuits. "Millions and millions of acres have been stripped bare, just like in logging and strip mining. Only grazing has done it in a slightly more subtle level."
Most opponents of livestock grazing on public lands, like the Southwest Center, use legal means in their effort to turn the region's ecological clock back to 1875, the year that barbed wire began to fence the West's wide open spaces.
But a radical fringe prefers to take direct action, ranging from snipping barbed wire, to burning down cattle auction barns, to, in one case in southern New Mexico, mowing down cattle with an AK-47.
About 30 incidents of cattle shootings have occurred in the last three years, said Barry R. Clausen, private investigator in Northern California who monitors environmental extremist activity. Talking by phone from Tucson, where he was lecturing to ranchers, Mr. Clausen said of Arizona: "There have been 20 cases of fence cutting in the last six months. Water tanks have been damaged. Windmills have been damaged."
In 1985, David Foreman, a founder of Earth First, published a technical manual to "monkey-wrenching," which is jargon for sabotage. The book, which has been through eight printings, dedicates 14 pages to vandalizing ranches -- stealing salt blocks, plugging water pipes, smashing water tanks, disabling windmills, and cutting fences.
"Some experts estimate that 100 people cutting fences on a regular basis around the West could put the public-land ranchers out of business," wrote Mr. Foreman, who is chairman of the Wildlands Project, an environmental group in Tucson.
In spring 1997, Earth First Journal published a step-by-step guide to cutting barbed-wire fences.
"The Journal does not take a position on monkey-wrenching," said Theresa Kintz, an editor for the Oregon publication. "But, personally, I think it's pretty cool."
"There should not be ranching on public lands -- it's like welfare," she added, stressing that these were her personal opinions. "If people are out there using monkey-wrenching to keep ranching off public lands, I'm all for it."
Many ranchers have kept a low profile in the face of violence.
"People are upset," said Jack Roddy, a central California rancher who has lectured stock grower groups about the sabotage campaign problem. "But I can't see a lot of them stepping forward to organize to get this stuff stopped."
"A lot of people fear retaliation. I am a perfect example. I had 14 head of cattle killed because I talked."
Out here in the rural areas of Natrona County, where 10,000 people are scattered over an area the size of Connecticut, people are angry, suspicious and frightened. Ranchers, some of them deputized by the county sheriff, have begun to stop unknown vehicles, asking drivers what their business is, and writing down license plate numbers.
"It's not only shocking and frustrating, it's a little frightening," Gaynell Park, a rancher whose fences were cut, said today as she sat in her living room. "These people are faceless. We don't know what else they might do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vandals cut the fences at the ranch of Robert L. Hendry, right, in 60 places in mid-June. He did maintenance work recently with his son, J. W., 14. Mr. Hendry recently chased down a fugitive steer at his 150,000-acre spread. The ranch, near Casper, Wyo., has been the target of vandals. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: CASPER, WY, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EARTH FIRST (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: EARTH FIRST (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (96%); WYOMING, USA (96%); UTAH, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); CASPER, WY, USA (92%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIVESTOCK; FENCES; VANDALISM; PUBLIC PROPERTY; RANCHES; LAND USE POLICIES ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); VANDALISM (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ECOTERRORISM (89%); MAMMALS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); BEEF (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SENTENCING (72%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (67%); TERRORISM (65%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES ROBERT L HENDRY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



552 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1668 words

HEADLINE: Plan for Tribal Casino Backfires On a Fading Jersey Shore Town

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: ANADARKO, Okla.

 BODY:
In 1995, the Mayor and business leaders of Wildwood, a struggling resort on the Jersey Shore, were certain that the path to prosperity ran through this parched corner of western Oklahoma. The idea seemed inspired: Take a bit of city land -- a two-acre parking lot, actually -- and give it back to Oklahoma's Delaware Indians, whose ancestors were pushed out of New Jersey in the 1830's. The Indians would open a casino, and Wildwood would finally tap into the river of dollars flowing to the mighty resort casinos of Atlantic City, 30 miles up the shore.
It has not worked out that way. 
 Far from gaining a small-scale gambling parlor to match its small-town hopes, Wildwood has seen its redevelopment plan pushed to the sidelines by battling lawyers who have literally made a Federal case out of it. The Delawares, once Wildwood's allies, have instead teamed up with a well-heeled national Indian gambling developer and filed a lawsuit claiming all of the city as their ancestral land. Wildwood tried to give the tribe the parking lot, but that only brought another lawsuit, from the State of New Jersey, seeking to block any deal that might undermine Atlantic City's casino monopoly.
And now, the Delawares are raising the stakes. Unless the state drops its opposition to an Indian casino in Wildwood, the Delawares' lawyer said, the tribe will sue for thousands of New Jersey acres outside of Wildwood that it says were taken in violation of a 1790 Federal law. A dozen or more tribes -- in California, Maine, Washington State and elsewhere -- have won thousands of acres and millions of dollars with such claims, and any land won could be developed into an Indian casino without state approval.
"So what started out as a 2.2 acre-case to revitalize Wildwood is turning into a suit involving potentially thousands of acres and millions of dollars," the tribe's lawyer, Glenn D. McGogney, said.
As Wildwood and its Mayor, Fred Wager, have learned, the world of casino development is not a penny-ante game.
"We've got 26 percent unemployment, we've got businesses boarded up right in the heart of downtown, we've got a high school that isn't properly funded, and we've got kids who have to leave town when they graduate," Mr. Wager said. "That's what we're facing in Wildwood, and all I can hope is that when this whole thing works itself out, the city will get back some of what we've lost."
When he talked about small-town problems, the Mayor could also have been speaking of Anadarko, a town of 6,600 in one of Oklahoma's poorest counties. From the Redskin Theater (closed) at the west end of town to the Indian City Lanes, Anadarko and surrounding Caddo County are propped up by their small farms and ranches; by some summer visitors to the Indian City USA theme park, and by the housing, education and health care that the Federal Government provides the area's seven tribes.
Of a dozen people interviewed here, no one was aware of the Delawares' New Jersey project, but the idea that a tribe would want to venture that far made sense to some.
"I guess they need to get some more business, the same as the people in New Jersey do," said Wayne Gomez, a reporter at The Anadarko Daily News.
The Delawares refused to meet with a reporter who visited their trust lands to discuss the Wildwood matter. The tribe's chief, Larry Snake, even denied in a brief phone conversation that Mr. McGogney was representing the tribe, an assertion that Mr. McGogney disputed. "We have a signed contract," said Mr. McGogney, who is listed in court papers as the tribe's lawyer.
Federal regulators say that Wildwood's experience, right down to its abject failure so far, has parallels all over the country. Governments or businesses seeking to revive depressed properties are cutting deals with Indians whose tribal lands are too remote to prosper. Bring Indian casinos to the customers, the thinking goes, and everyone will be happy.
This would be done by persuading the Federal Government to take a property into trust for a tribe -- creating a mini-reservation, in effect, that is under the tribe's sovereignty and removed from local and state control, including zoning regulations. But Federal Indian policy frowns on creating trust lands for gambling. So far only one such effort, in Wisconsin, has succeeded, and then only because the entire state leadership supported the idea.
New Jersey has no federally recognized tribes and no Indian trust lands, but it does have three state-recognized Indian tribes -- the Ramapough, the Nanticoke and the Powhatan -- that are demanding Federal recognition and their own lands. So far, the Bureau of Indian Affairs has rejected their pleas.
Indian gambling is a $7 billion-a-year industry, Federal officials say, with 185 tribes running 285 gambling operations in 28 states. A sliver of that action belongs to western Oklahoma's Delawares, a federally recognized tribe with 1,200 members on a few thousand acres of trust lands.
The tribe's Gold River casino and bingo parlor occupies a low steel building among the gnarled oaks and pines north of town. Every day until 1 A.M., local cowboys, a few tourists and transient retirees hunker down in the smoky air and the din of slot machines to feed dollar bills into the tribe's 50 or so "pull-tab" machines.
"They don't have to report their earnings, but I doubt they do very well up there," said Don Ashapanek, a land-use expert at the Anadarko Indian Agency. The agency works with the seven tribes -- the Apache, Caddo, Comanche, Delaware, Fort Sill Apache, Kiowa and Wichita -- that give Anadarko the nickname Indian City.
Because the Delawares' gambling parlor offers relatively low-stakes games, it is exempt from many of the Federal and state restrictions governing full-fledged casinos. Mayor Wager wants to open a similar operation -- a so-called Class Two casino -- in Wildwood as the only way to skirt the state's opposition. But he said he hoped the casino would someday grow to have roulette, blackjack, slots and the other games that Class Three Indian casinos offer.
An Indian casino was not even Mayor Wager's first choice. While he was still a City Councilman, in 1994, he opened talks with a race track operator who talked of bringing in riverboat gambling and even, the Mayor said, an airborne "Zeppelin casino." But the promoter dropped out and advised Mr. Wager and his supporters to see the Delawares. The tribe had a plausible tie to the Jersey Shore: it lived around the Delaware Bay before leaving for the West in the 1830's, and a splinter group of Delawares had already claimed -- though unsuccessfully -- a large part of ocean-front Asbury Park, N.J., as a "tribal homeland."
Wildwood's gambling advocates formed a committee to bring home a casino, and one of its leaders, John Nickels, the owner of Nickels' Midway Pier, called Mr. Snake.
"I said, 'I would like to invite you to Wildwood, New Jersey,' " Mr. Nickels recalled. " 'Take a look around; maybe we have some things to discuss.' "
In September 1995, Mayor Wager and Mr. Snake signed a two-year contract: For $1, Wildwood would transfer to the Delaware tribe an underused, seagull-spattered parking lot of 2.2 acres on Schellenger Street, behind the Red Owl All You Can Eat Buffet.
The Delawares, asserting ancestral ties to the Jersey Shore, would ask the Federal Government to take the land in trust for the tribe. Once that was done, the Delaware would build a Class Two casino, with or without New Jersey's blessing, and offer bingo, poker and pull-tab machines, but no lodging, liquor or food service that would compete with the surrounding town. The tribe would pay the city $8 million a year.
In Trenton and in Atlantic City, reaction to Wildwood's plan was swift and angry. Gov. Christine Todd Whitman said she had "serious concerns" about allowing gambling beyond Atlantic City, which pays millions into the state's treasury each year, and whose gambling franchise is protected by the state's Constitution. The State Assembly passed a resolution noting that the Delawares have had no connection with New Jersey for more than a century and urging Congress to give states more control over Indian gambling. The Bureau of Indian Affairs was also uncooperative. Without the Governor's support, its officials said, the Wildwood project was as good as dead. "This is not going to happen in Wildwood," said Rex Hacker, a Bureau of Indian Affairs spokesman.
When the city's two-year agreement with the tribe expired last fall, the Indians looked for a new partner among the casino developers who had followed the scent of business to Wildwood. A deal with Ameristar Casinos, a big Las Vegas operator, fell through, so the tribe turned to Mr. McGogney's Casino Financing Consultants, a private partnership in Allentown, Pa., that Mr. McGogney said had several other Indian casino projects in development. (He declined to say which ones.)
Mr. McGogney said his next weapon was the Federal Nonintercourse Act of 1790, which says that only the Federal Government can take Indian land. New Jersey bought out all Indian land claims in 1820, he said, but the deal was never approved in Washington. "So it is our position that the transfer was void from the beginning," Mr. McCogney said, "which means that it never ceased being tribal land, and so we are allowed to create a gaming facility without permission of the state."
On Aug. 7, Mr. McGogney, acting for the tribe, filed suit against Wildwood in a Federal court, claiming that all of the town was on ancestral land. In anticipation of the suit, the city transferred the parking lot to the tribe as an offer of settlement. But on Aug. 10, the state filed suit against Wildwood to block the parking lot giveaway, on the ground that the transfer would change city boundaries without state permission. No trial date has been set.
"I can tell you, when we started out, we did not expect so many twists and turns," Mayor Wager said. "But we shall overcome."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fred Wager, the Mayor of Wildwood, N.J., on the site that the city offered to Oklahoma's Delaware Indians to build a casino. But now the Delawares have filed a lawsuit claiming the entire city as their ancestral land. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 48)
 
Map of New Jersey showing the location of Wildwood: Wildwood, N.J., envies the casino revenue flowing to Atlantic City. (pg. 48)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JERSEY SHORE PETERBILT INC (92%); JERSEY SHORE STEEL INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WILDWOOD (NJ); NEW JERSEY; ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; DELAWARE INDIANS; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT CASINOS (95%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); GAMING (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); LITIGATION (88%); LAWYERS (87%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



553 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: A Humbled Yeltsin Is Fading Away

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 19

 BODY:
President Boris N. Yeltsin made a rare appearance in public last Wednesday evening at a gala concert at Moscow's Conservatory. At least, he was there for the start of a performance by the Russian cellist Mstislav Rostropovich and Seiji Ozawa, the Boston Symphony's conductor.
By intermission, he was gone. 
 As Russia's new Prime Minister, Yevgeny M. Primakov, struggled to patch together a coalition Cabinet this week, Mr. Yeltsin's involvement in the affairs of his crisis-ridden country has provided the background noise, audible enough but increasingly distant.
In an eerie sequence reminiscent of the stylized protocol of Soviet times, television news broadcasts show him in his office, ushering a visitor to a table where the cameras silently track opening remarks. The next news item shows an identical scene, with a different guest. The images only support the growing impression that Russia's once powerful President, weakened by crisis and poor health, has been sidelined to a largely ceremonial role.
News agencies report his telephone conversations with world leaders, and his decrees on ministerial appointments, including one that was spurned by the appointee two days after its announcement. But Mr. Primakov, the artful diplomat, is clearly making the choices that will define Russia's future course, as he sifts through opposing political factions in the difficult search for consensus.
How Mr. Yeltsin will figure into that consensus is no longer relevant: his views on Russia's economic policies have been washed over by events that have left him isolated, and humbled.
For the first time in a career that capitalized on conflicts, Mr. Yeltsin last week backed away from a certain showdown with the parliamentary opposition over the nomination of Viktor S. Chernomyrdin as Prime Minister. In Russia's play-for-keeps politics, a compromise -- in this case, the nomination of Mr. Primakov -- carries with it the faint aroma of defeat.
"Today, very little remains of President Yeltsin's clout," Natalya Konstantinova, a journalist for the Moscow daily The Independent Newspaper, wrote this week. Even Boris A. Berezovsky, the Russian tycoon and master intriguer said to have close ties to the President's family, told British television this week that Mr. Yeltsin's time had run out, and he has lent support to Aleksandr I. Lebed, the former general who now governs a Siberian region and is seen as a top presidential contender.
Instead of statements of policy, or words of reassurance, the Kremlin has been the source of tales of shadowy intrigue in the last week.
Soon after Mr. Primakov's nomination was confirmed, two top Kremlin aides -- Andrei Kokoshin, secretary of the National Security Council, and Sergei Yastrzhembsky, Mr. Yeltsin's top press spokesman -- were summarily dismissed.
Neither has been available to provide his version of events, but according to press reports, and people who know the details, their transgressions consisted of going directly to Mr. Yeltsin with unsolicited advice to drop Mr. Chernomyrdin and choose another man as Prime Minister.
By picking Mr. Primakov, Mr. Yeltsin would seem to have heeded their advice. "It is a paradox, but it is in the tradition of Russian paradoxes," said Pavel Voshchanov, a journalist who is also one of Mr. Yeltsin's former press secretaries. "When servants come to their master with unwelcome advice with which he is obliged to agree, he accepts it grudgingly, and resentfully."
Although the dismissal of the two highly respected advisers was undoubtedly ordered by Mr. Yeltsin, it was pushed by his chief of staff, Valentin B. Yumashev, a former journalist who became Mr. Yeltsin's top aide and chief gatekeeper after he helped write Mr. Yeltsin's book, "The Struggle for Russia."
According to press reports, Mr. Yumashev and his close ally, Mr. Yeltsin's daughter and adviser Tatyana Dyachenko, 38, had pressed the President to stand firm against the Parliament. In the end, they were overruled, but took their revenge.
The departure of Mr. Kokoshin and Mr. Yastrzhembsky has depleted Mr. Yeltsin's already dwindling circle of close advisers. His team of young free-market reformers -- figures like Anatoly B. Chubais, the architect of Russia's privatization, and former Prime Minister Sergei V. Kiriyenko -- has been dispersed, unlikely to return. His old allies from Russia's democratic movement now lack a leader, or even a credible heir. Even Mr. Chernomyrdin, the yo-yo of Russian politics for his ability to rebound in difficulty, has been left stranded.
Mr. Yumashev, 40, has neither the skills nor the authority to fill the gap left around Mr. Yeltsin, according to people who know him. "I saw him at a number of meetings during the 1996 campaign, and afterward, and I don't remember him ever saying a word," said Vyacheslav Nikonov, head of the Political Fund, a Moscow research organization.
The leftist opposition continues to press its advantage. An impeachment process is still wending its way to the floor of the Parliament, even though its chances of clearing the constitutional hurdles remain slight. A series of legal changes to the Constitution that would reduce the powers of the presidency are a more realistic line of attack against Mr. Yeltsin and are also due to come before the opposition-dominated Parliament.
In tracking the decline of Mr. Yeltsin's influence, many look to Mr. Berezovsky, seeing in him a political bellwether whose main loyalty is to power, no matter who holds it. He seems to be shifting support toward Mr. Lebed; another top presidential contender with business backing is Yuri Luzhkov, Moscow's Mayor.
Mr. Yeltsin's health is another handicap, although what ails him is unclear, other than aftereffects of bypass heart surgery in 1996 and a history of heavy drinking. He has good days when his step is firm and his gaze focused. But he also has bad days, when his attention drifts.
And yet, in these past hectic weeks, Mr. Yeltsin has surprised his harshest detractors by proving that he can still make decisions, and even impromptu appearances. On Thursday, he paid a 15-minute visit to a Moscow grocery store, although no reporters or television crews were present.
Several analysts still caution against ruling him out entirely, noting that as long as he still has power he will try to wield it.
Mr. Yeltsin's retirement before the end of his term in 2000, followed by early presidential elections, is a recurrent theme here. But few who know the President expect him to quit voluntarily.
"I would give anything for Boris Nikolayevich to quit -- I would promise him anything he wants," Pyotr Sumin, the Governor of the Chelyabinsk region, told the Russian magazine Profil. "We could live without him. But he will not quit."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Boris N. Yeltsin has become a less visible presence in Russia, and his clout seems to be ebbing. He attended a concert with his wife, Naina, last Wednesday, but by intermission, he was gone. (Pool photo by Alexander Natruskin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); NEWS REPORTING (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); WRITERS (61%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (PRIME MIN) BORIS BEREZOVSKY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



554 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: THE TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Magazine Has Ideas for Post-Clinton Democrats, and Gore Looms Large

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
As the debate intensifies over President Clinton's political future, a new magazine will be introduced next week that is devoted to the post-Clinton era in American politics -- and, apparently, to the election of Vice President Al Gore in 2000.
The magazine, a slickly printed quarterly, is named Blueprint: Ideas for a New Century and is being published by the Democratic Leadership Council, a centrist organization that Mr. Clinton once headed and turned to for help starting his Presidential campaign in 1992. 
 "One way or another, Clinton is not going to be President for that much longer," said Andrei Cherny, a former senior speechwriter for Mr. Gore who is editor of Blueprint. "And the Democratic Party needs to figure out where it goes after him and what it stands for."
Al From, the publisher and head of the leadership council, insisted that the magazine, with a circulation goal of 35,000, "is a project to put the best thinking forward of the 'New Democrat' movement -- it's not just a project to help one person get elected." The magazine dwells more on ideas than practicalities of a Presidential campaign. But Blueprint, which is financed with donations to the Democratic Leadership Council, clearly looks like a Gore vehicle. Most references are not to the Clinton Administration but to "the Clinton/Gore Administration." The staff is stocked with Gore loyalists.
Most of the articles in the premier issue were written by former Gore aides or current advisers. One article, about demographic changes in the electorate, was written by Elaine C. Kamarck of Harvard University, who ran Mr. Gore's reinventing Government initiative in the first term, and by William A. Galston, a former Clinton domestic policy aide who is close to Mr. Gore.
Mark Penn, the White House pollster who is expected to sign on with Mr. Gore for 2000, wrote an article analyzing the Democratic electorate of the future and is expected to have a standing analysis in each issue. Another article, which explores "the growing phenomenon of economic free agents," is by Daniel H. Pink, Mr. Gore's chief speechwriter from 1995 to 1997.
One well-established weekly magazine, The New Republic, has long been viewed in political circles as a booster of Mr. Gore. The editor in chief, Martin Peretz, is a longtime friend of the Vice President and was one of his instructors at Harvard University, where they met in 1965.
More recently, other magazines have cropped up to push one political position -- or candidate -- or another. Just this week, Salon, an online magazine that is widely viewed as friendly toward Mr. Clinton, stirred a partisan frenzy by disclosing that Representative Henry J. Hyde, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, had an affair three decades ago. And The Weekly Standard was established after the 1994 elections to press Republican positions -- and as something of a political antidote to The New Republic.
Blueprint, with an estimated budget of $1.5 million, is expected to cease publication after six or eight issues once the 2000 Presidential campaign gets fully under way. The concept for the magazine came from Donald A. Baer, a former Clinton communications director and former assistant managing editor at U.S. News & World Report who is close to Mr. Gore. He is the magazine's senior editorial consultant.
Despite the Gore loyalists on the staff, the magazine does not hew to all of his policy positions. Though Mr. Gore has been mounting aggressive appeals to labor and liberal constituencies to help him in the Democratic primaries, articles in the magazine suggest that people who regularly use computers on the job have become more important politically than union members. Another article said Democratic candidates no longer have to gear their appeals to the left in the primaries.
For all its focus on the post-Clinton era, Blueprint carefully avoids injecting itself into the scandal that has engulfed the White House and that has left Mr. Gore's advisers unsettled.
Seeking to frame the scandal in positive terms for centrist Democrats, Mr. From and Will Marshall, the top officials of the leadership council and its spinoff policy institute, wrote, "President Clinton's ability to sustain support throughout much of his Presidency -- despite the miasma of scandals and investigations that hangs over Washington -- shows that Americans are ready to reward pragmatic problem-solving over reflexive partisanship."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore greeted employees on Friday at Teradyne Inc. in Nashua, N.H. A new magazine about the future of politics, though not officially tied to Mr. Gore, looks like a vehicle for him. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BLUEPRINT: IDEAS FOR A NEW CENTURY (PUB)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); 

CITY: NASHUA, NH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW CENTURY MEDIA (57%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (91%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (91%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); NASHUA, NH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



555 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Texans Call Terror Suspect Apolitical

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Tex., Sept. 19

 BODY:
By the accounts of those who worked for him at a ramshackle Fort Worth tire shop and lived near him in a rundown apartment block on a dead-end street here in Arlington, about a mile from the stately mosque where he prayed every Friday, Wadih el Hage was even-tempered, devout and utterly apolitical.
"I was shocked when I heard that he was arrested for being part of these terrorists," said Mahmoud Mazouni, who worked for Mr. el Hage at Lone Star Wheels & Tires and now is trying to run the place until his boss' return. "He never said anything political. Never. You know, he had a wife and seven children, and he was worrying for them all the time. That is what he talked about." 
 Mr. el Hage, 38, was arrested in New York on Wednesday night by Federal officials who said he was a close associate of Osama bin Laden, once serving as the wealthy Saudi financier's private secretary, and of many other members of Al Quaeda, the alleged terrorist organization run by Mr. Bin Laden that Federal officials say is responsible for the bombing of two United States embassies in Africa last month.
Mr. el Hage is the first American citizen to be charged with being part of Mr. Bin Laden's terrorist network.
"I just can't believe that it's true," said Mary Silburn, the manager of the Campus South Apartments in Arlington, where Mr. el Hage lived with his wife, April Ray, and their four sons and three daughters, ages 12 years to 3 months. "They were very nice, ordinary people."
Mr. el Hage's three-bedroom apartment, for which he paid $510 a month, is halfway down a dark, first-floor corridor in a whitewashed, two-story building surrounded by old, rusted cars.
"I have no idea what's going on," his wife said Thursday night, shortly after she had been informed of her husband's arrest. "I'm pretty much shell-shocked. I just barely heard what's going on, and I'm having a hard time dealing with it."
Ms. Silburn said the apartment complex was overrun with reporters and television crews on Friday, though Mr. el Hage's family declined to talk to anyone. Today, no one was answering the door at the apartment, and Ms. Silburn asked reporters to leave the family alone and get off the property.
"She is a proper Muslim wife, so she does not want to say anything, you understand," Mr. Mazouni said. "Her feeling is, if you have a question for my husband, you must ask him."
Mr. el Hage is being held without bail in New York, charged with two counts of lying to Federal officials in their investigations of Mr. Bin Laden's organization. Officials said more charges against Mr. el Hage were likely to be filed in the coming week. Thus far, he has not been charged with any complicity in the Aug. 7 bombings of the American embassies in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam, which left 258 people dead, including 12 Americans.
Federal officials described Mr. el Hage as a Lebanese Christian who had converted to Islam.
The authorities said Mr. el Hage, who had lived in the Forth Worth area in the 1980's, was with Mr. Bin Laden in the Sudan in 1994, acting as his private secretary. That year, Mr. el Hage moved to Kenya, where he established a gem business and was in contact with other associates of Mr. Bin Laden. One of them, Haroun Fazil, who shared a house with Mr. el Hage in Nairobi, played a role in the Aug. 7 bombings, officials said.
Federal have offered a $2 million reward for information leading to the capture of Mr. Fazil.
Mr. el Hage returned to the United States in 1997 where he has lived, it is believed, in modest apartments in the same neighborhood near the University of Texas Arlington campus.
In the financial affidavit that Mr. el Hage completed at the time of his arrest, he said that his wife was unemployed, that his earnings at the tire store were $1,600 a month and that the only items of value that he owned were a 1981 Honda Prelude and a 1984 Chevy Caprice.
"He has one big car for the children and one little car for himself," Mr. Mazouni said.
Tarrant County officials said on Friday that in 1986, when he was living in a working-class neighborhood on the north side of Fort Worth, Mr. el Hage was charged with writing $2,400 worth of worthless checks to 22 businesses in a little more than a week.
Before a hearing, Mr. el Hage disappeared, but resurfaced in 1992 and posted a $500 bond before disappearing again, officials said. In 1993, the case was closed and the file stamped "the defendant has never been apprehended," the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported.
How Mr. el Hage found his way into Mr. Bin Laden's employ is unclear, but he was known to anti-terrorist officials by the time he was living in Nairobi in the mid-1990's.
Mr. el Hage was questioned by Federal agents in October 1997, after his return to Texas, and again on Aug. 20, two weeks after the embassy bombings. He is charged with lying to the authorities during those interrogations about his knowledge of some of the principals in the Quaeda organization and faces five years in prison on each of the two counts.
Mr. el Hage had managed his business in partnership with Braham Kheidar, the owner of another tire shop, A-Quality Tires and Wheels, in nearby Arlington, Mr. Mazouni said. A worker at the Arlington shop said today that Mr. Kheidar was out of town and could not be reached.
Today, Mr. Mazouni looked around the dark, musty tire ship on a commercial stretch of Fort Worth's industrial east side and said he did not know how long he would have to run the place by himself.
"I was here with my television on when the news of the bombings came on the air," Mr. Mazouni said. "When Mr. el Hage came into the shop, I asked him if he had heard about it, and he said yes, but he showed no emotion and said no more about it. He didn't act like a man who had been involved in it."
Mr. el Hage's business cards were still lying on a rack on the tire shop's counter, each one stamped "$2 off next visit," just a few yards from the spot where he knelt and prayed five times each day.
He had left the shop on Monday afternoon and told Mr. Mazounithat he was flying to New York for business but would return in two or three days. Mr. Mazouni did not know that his employer of six months was responding to a Federal subpoena, and did not know of his arrest until informed by reporters on Thursday.
"He was always very quiet, very calm," Mr. Mazouni said. "Who knows what is going on? Only God knows, as we say in Islam. Not the F.B.I., not the journalists. Only God."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (76%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); 

CITY: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AL-QAEDA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARLINGTON (TEX); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (76%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (87%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (89%); AL-QAEDA (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); BOMBINGS (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); BAIL (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (51%); 

PERSON: LYMAN, RICK; EL HAGE, WADIH; BIN LADEN, OSAMA OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



556 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: In Land of Home Rule, An Uncommon Merger

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: WEST NEW YORK, N.J., Sept. 18

 BODY:
In this densely populated town in northern Hudson County, where municipalities bunch up like boxcars in a train wreck, Dan McEldowney would often sit outside Engine Company No. 1, where he works, and watch the fire trucks from adjacent North Bergen barreling by toward fires on that town's eastern end.
That North Bergen's firefighters have to go through West New York to get to sections of their own town on the Hudson River has long been a fact of life here. But it has never made much sense to Mr. McEldowney and others. 
 "It was crazy, because we would be closer to some of those fires than they were," he said, shaking his head. "We would just wave at them as they went past."
Now, with the encouragement of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's administration, the Mayors of four tightly packed municipalities in the area have embraced a plan to consolidate fire services, to save money and to lower or at least stabilize property taxes.
The plan, formally introduced last Wednesday at the Town Council meetings of West New York, Union City, Weehawken and North Bergen, would cut nearly $5 million from the towns' fire service budgets, which now total $25 million. The job now being done by 347 firefighters would eventually be done by 302, and the area's 19 firehouses and 59 pieces of equipment would eventually decrease as well.
The proposal has made the area the poster child of Mrs. Whitman's campaign to encourage local governments to consolidate services, which she says could result in a savings of about $1.2 billion and lower local property taxes statewide.
In accepting the report by her Property Tax Commission, she rejected shifting local costs to the state, as many had urged, and instead offered a package of $35 million in incentives for local and regional consolidations. And at a news conference in Trenton, she singled out Mayor Albio Sires of West New York and his fellow Mayors for their willingness to take such steps.
In this, the most densely populated section of the nation's most densely populated state, consolidation would seem to fly in the face of New Jersey's history of home rule. Addition, and not subtraction, has been the predominant municipal math -- there are 566 municipalities, 611 school districts and more than 400 local authorities in the state's 21 counties. If this has succeeded in forging distinct local identities, it has also contributed to the state's having the nation's highest average local property taxes.
And that northern Hudson County, of all places, should be blazing a trail toward consolidation has prompted bemusement among many in the state for other reasons. The area's storied past has included such colorful characters as the political boss Frank Hague, whose machinations made area politics as byzantine as its boundary lines are serpentine. Patronage, turf wars and political corruption have been the hallmark here, not government efficiency.
"Everybody plays the game, but we get the name," said Union City's Mayor, Rudy Garcia, lamenting the area's reputation for corruption. "I wasn't even born when that stuff was going on, and the truth is that we in this area have been progressive for a long time because our relatively low incomes have challenged us to find savings without increasing taxes. The real question to me is, why isn't it happening in places other than northern Hudson?"
The desire to personalize services helps explain why fragmentation has been more common than consolidation, many local officials said. And once in office, those same officials have a vested interest in maintaining their ability to control, and get credit for services.
James E. McGreevey, the Democratic Mayor of Woodbridge Township in Middlesex County, said that while consolidation was "good public policy," few had been able to square the political risks with the fiscal benefits. The Governor's incentives had done little to alter that situation, he said, adding: "Municipalities are not going to rush to merge themselves out of existence."
Barbara Cannon, the Mayor of Old Bridge Township in Middlesex County and chairman of the Property Tax Commission, said one problem was that people tended to see consolidation as synonymous with disappearing. That need not be the case, and she predicted that economies from consolidation would wind up looking different all over the state. As an example, she pointed to her town, where the local school district and the various public works and fire departments had consolidated their vehicle fuel-purchase operations in a town-built fuel dump.
Many communities consolidate their recycling programs at the county level, but that is the outgrowth of another broader consolidation in the state that left a bad taste in the mouths of many localities. New Jersey's nearly 20-year-old program of waste flow control, which established county entities to control waste disposal of all of their towns, was found unconstitutional by Federal courts, but for years many local officials viewed this consolidation as both costly and inefficient.
John Rooney, the Mayor of Northvale in Bergen County and a critic of that system, said that unlike flow control, the consolidations encouraged under the Governor's proposals were voluntary and mirrored things that local governments have been asking the state to help promote.
Mayor Sires of West New York said that he and the other Mayors had few misgivings about consolidating their fire departments. The adjacent town of Guttenberg, however, chose not to. Weehawken, West New York, North Bergen and Union City are scheduled to vote Sept. 30 on the plan, which would establish a single department called the North Hudson Regional Fire Department.
More than 165,000 people live in the 80-by-30 block area of the four municipalities. The idea of consolidation had been studied and restudied since the 60's, but it was not until a new generation of Mayors, all in their 40's, began to replace longtime incumbents that the process took hold. The other two Mayors are Richard Turner of Weehawken and Nicholas J. Sacco of North Bergen.
It was the opposition of Mr. Sires's predecessor, Anthony M. DeFino, a 24-year incumbent, that was the last barrier to fall away when Mr. Sires succeeded him three years ago.
Still, the legacy of the past dies hard, and in proposing a five-member commission to run the fire services, the Mayors put in a requirement that there be a "super majority" of four-to-one to approve most actions. It was a recognition, Mayor Sires said, that politics can still be "hardball," and is often a "team sport" with coalitions arrayed against a single opponent.
Also, in pressing the plan, the Mayors were determined not to alienate the politically powerful firefighters' unions -- all eight of them among the four towns -- by promising to use attrition, retirements and buyouts in cutting personnel.
The result, said Joseph McLean, a 17-year veteran of the West New York Fire Department, is that the unions like the plan and younger members of the various departments see it as opening up chances for advancement that were few in the smaller units.
"Plus, it means greater safety because under the plan there will be twice as many firefighters responding to a fire than there are now," he said. "They aren't forcing something on anybody, because it makes sense."
Among the incentives announced by Governor Whitman was one to promote consolidations by giving localities state funds to assist in offering early retirement and buyout packages.
"We have been heading in that direction," Mayor Sires said, "but the Governor's plan for early retirement incentives is a real boost for what we are doing."

GRAPHIC: Map of North Bergen: A regional fire department would serve four adjacent towns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TAX COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAX COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; HUDSON COUNTY (NJ); WEST NEW YORK (NJ); UNION CITY (NJ); WEEHAWKEN (NJ); NORTH BERGEN (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); TRAINS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (78%); HISTORY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); BUDGETS (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (67%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (64%); POLITICS (61%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); SMOTHERS, RONALD ALBIO SIRES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



557 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Jet Crash Raises Question: Are Cockpit Crews Large Enough?

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Even before anyone knows what caused the fire that brought down Swissair Flight 111 off Nova Scotia on Sept. 2, aviation experts are debating whether the 229 people who died would have had a better chance in a plane with a cockpit crew of three, not two, and whether the airlines' continuing drive to economize with automation and smaller crews has taken a toll on safety.
Investigators in Halifax, Nova Scotia, hinted on Thursday that the investigation was still far from complete. But a suspicion persists among some experts that the computers that replaced the flight engineer on the Swissair jet, a McDonnell Douglas MD-11, left the captain and first officer without a colleague who could troubleshoot or innovate in a crisis. Others, though, say the difficulties faced by Flight 111 -- and its failure to descend immediately -- made the size of the crew irrelevant. 
Flight engineers, who keep track of a jet's fuel flow, engine performance and other details, are usually pilots-in-training. With an engineer, "you've got that pilot mind there, a second pair of eyes, and he's not that busy, he's not wrestling with the airplane," said Donald M. Tynan, a retired American Airlines pilot who once confronted a smoke emergency in flight. On Nov. 15, 1979, on a flight from Chicago to National Airport in Washington, a bomb exploded in the baggage hold of his Boeing 727, filling the plane with smoke.
Mr. Tynan said he was able to assign the other pilot to communications, fly the plane himself and dispatch the engineer to the passenger cabin to assess the situation. Experts say a captain is much less likely to send a crew member outside the cockpit if there are only two of them.
In that case, the engineer saw smoke filling the cabin and called for an immediate landing; Captain Tynan brought the plane down at the nearest airport, Dulles, so fast that, by his own account, he never got clearance from air traffic control, came too close to a plane already on the runway, and broke a Federal Aviation Administration speed limit on the way down. But 12 of his passengers suffered smoke inhalation; any delay, he said, and it would have been much worse.
Another oft-cited example of an extra crew member saving the day is the July 1989 crash of a United Airlines DC-10 near Sioux City, Iowa, after an engine disintegrated in flight and severed the hydraulic system. A training pilot who was traveling in the passenger cabin came forward to join the three-member flight crew, and figured out that some control could be obtained by varying the speed of the two remaining engines. Without that novel technique -- which required an extra person to manipulate separately the two throttles that are normally moved together -- experts believe that everyone aboard would have died; in the end, 112 died and 184 survived.
But three-person cockpits are a historical artifact now -- all the manufacturers have eliminated the flight engineer. The Boeing 747 was one of the last holdouts, but the current version, the 747-400, flies with a crew of two.
The flight engineer contributes to safety, said Dr. Earl L. Wiener, an expert on human factors in aviation and an emeritus professor at the department of management science at the University of Miami. "He may be the most mechanically sophisticated of the three people in the cockpit," Dr. Wiener said. And if there is any thought to pulling up the hatch cover behind the captain's chair and looking down into the electronics bay beneath the cockpit, where investigators think the Swissair fire may have occurred, a three-person crew is much more likely to do that, he said.
But Dr. Wiener added that captains never find it easy to supervise flight engineers, who sit over their right shoulders, and the dynamics of three people working together are more difficult than with two.
Robert van der Linden, the Smithsonian's curator for air transportation, said the flight engineer was doomed by the airlines' demands for lower operating costs and the arrival of computers that can do the work of engineers. "A third man wouldn't have made a whit of difference" in the Swissair accident, he said. "He'd have died, too."
Mr. van der Linden and others say that what killed the pilots and their passengers was not immediately recognizing the severity of their problem. Investigators in Halifax said on Thursday that the cockpit voice recorder showed the first mention of a smell of smoke about 3 minutes before the crew sent its first distress call, or 13 minutes before communications ceased, and 19 minutes before the crash, relatively short periods for a plane flying at an altitude of six miles, over water.
The smell of smoke in airplanes is not rare, pilots say, and they often hesitate to begin descent, for fear of crying wolf. Captain Tynan, who broke rules and saved his passengers and plane, had the advantage of hearing the bomb explode and knowing quickly that there was a problem; more often, smoke is slowly recognized and turns out to be minor.
"For me, the last time, it was a Pop-Tart," said another MD-11 pilot, who spoke on the condition his name not be used. Someone had left it in a galley oven too long, he said.
Another MD-11 pilot said that the computers that effectively replaced the flight engineer were very useful in an emergency landing. The fuel dump system, for example, automatically sets itself to get the plane down to maximum landing weight; the pilot has only to push one button, one time. And no matter what the weight, the computers tell the pilots what the minimum safe air speed is, automatically taking into account flap position and other factors.
At Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, in Prescott, Ariz., William D. Waldock, the associate director of the university's Center for Aerospace Safety Education, said that no matter how many people had been in the Swissair 111 cockpit, the problem was the confusing situation.
"I don't think either one of them thought they had that serious a problem," he said. "By the time it got upgraded to a point where the captain's beginning to think he's got a real emergency, probably it was past the point where a third person would have made a difference."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (90%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: SWISSAIR BOEING CO (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%); A BETTER CHANCE (84%); A BETTER CHANCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWISSAIR A BETTER CHANCE (84%); A BETTER CHANCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (90%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; AUTOMATION; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); FIRES (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); FLIGHT SCHOOLS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); SPEED LIMITS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); 

PERSON: WIENER, EARL L (DR); WALD, MATTHEW L BEN NELSON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



558 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Experts Question Roving Flow of Global Capital

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 19

 BODY:
They were the world's richest and shrewdest investors, and they rode a wave of globalization to buy bonds in a promising developing country. When the country defaulted, they were livid. 
 "There should be lunatic asylums for nations as well as individuals," one investor wrote in The Morning Post of London, denouncing the defaulting country as "a nation with whom no contracts can be made."
It all sounds a bit familiar, but the year was 1842 and the developing country was the United States. After defaults by Maryland, Pennsylvania, Mississippi and Louisiana, the entire United States was blacklisted and scorned on global markets, with Americans barred from the best London clubs and the Rothschilds warning bitterly that America would be unable to "borrow a dollar, not a dollar."
Globalization, in other words, may not be quite as fresh as it sometimes seems. Since at least the 13th century, when Florentine merchants lent money to the English to pay for King Edward I's wars, international capital has roamed the world in search of high returns. (The start was inauspicious: England defaulted, causing the collapse of two Florentine banks.)
What has changed, economists say, is the scale of the capital flows and their ability to capsize small nations -- or even large ones. Many experts say that one factor behind the economic crisis that has devastated Asia and Russia, wobbled South America, and now come knocking on America's own door is the fantastic increase in the pool of capital that sloshes from one country to the next in search of safety and profit.
The sums are so gargantuan -- far greater than the amounts that governments can wield -- that a growing number of economists are calling for new steps to control these capital flows or at least soften their impact. Some say that the Bretton Woods economic system, which has governed the global economy for half a century, has been eclipsed by these vast pools of capital, and there are calls to design a new "architecture" for the global economic order.
The topic is expected to be widely discussed at next month's special meeting of finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven industrialized countries, summoned by President Clinton to discuss the global crisis. Japan's Finance Minister, Kiichi Miyazawa, has already discussed measures to ease the volatility of capital flows with Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and with his British counterpart, Gordon Brown.
The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, weighed in this week with a denunciation of rigid capital controls but a call to confront the problem by tightening supervision over banks that engage in international finance. All of a sudden, a vigorous debate is under way, and it may shape the global economy for decades to come.
"We'll have to rethink the system in a big way," said Jagdish Bhagwati, a prominent scholar of international economics at Columbia University. "The President has called this conference, and it should be the start of that process."
Professor Bhagwati urged that the new architecture should "give up the notion that the optimal world is one characterized by free capital flows, by capital account convertability, where you just press a button and take out a billion."
The Clinton Administration has led a global push to free the flow of capital around the world, and any new impediments to capital flows would be an abrupt step back for its campaign. As recently as last March, the International Monetary Fund newsletter carried a front-page headline cheerily declaring capital liberalization to be "an irreversible trend."
These days, it looks more reversible. Some economists believe that despite a wealth of scholarly research showing the need for caution, the United States pushed too hard for capital liberalization. The result, they say, was that tides of investment flooded into ill-prepared developing countries and created speculative bubbles, and then surged out, leaving behind shattered nations and a global financial crisis.
"I actually think the I.M.F. was too pushy in going around the accepted wisdom and encouraging countries to liberalize their capital accounts too soon," said Ronald I. McKinnon, an economist at Stanford University and author of a book on capital liberalization. "And not the least of the reasons behind this was arm-twisting by the United States Treasury, which always wants American banks and Wall Street people to be in there, competing freely."
Still, there is no question that freer capital flows have brought tremendous benefits to the global economy, as well as perils. Some places, like Hong Kong, have opened themselves to capital flows without restriction and are examples of the prosperity that free movements of capital can reap. Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary, likens the flows to jet planes, observing that jets bring enormous efficiencies and benefits to the world -- but that the crashes are more spectacular than ever.
What are these capital flows?
They are not some sinister force, but simply the result of ordinary people's cash roaming in search of a good return. When an American deposits money at the corner bank, some of that may end up being lent to a Brazilian company, and the same person's pension fund may dabble in the Hong Kong stock market.
In the United States, trading in foreign securities amounted to 2 percent of gross national product in 1975 and 213 percent last year, according to data from the Bank for International Settlements.
Paradoxically, historians sometimes attribute the modern boom in international capital, beyond the easy reach of any regulator, to the Communists. In the 1950's, China and Russia kept their dollars out of the United States, for fear Washington would freeze their accounts, and instead deposited the dollars in Europe.
One result was the "Eurodollar" market and a growing investment pool that flitted from country to country and currency to currency in pursuit of higher interest rates. The amount of foreign currency bank deposits around the world reached $1 billion only in 1961 and now is almost $1.5 trillion.
One problem, though, is that a lot of this is "hot money," or short-term flows that are particularly volatile.
Even in the 19th century, sailing ships used to carry gold to distant countries in pursuit of higher interest rates. In 1849, England raised its interest rate by 2 percentage points, prompting an early demonstration of the volatility of capital flows: ships that were already at sea, headed for America with their gold, turned around and sailed to England to get the higher rate.
Most governments imposed capital controls early in this century and then lifted them in the 1970's and 80's, and limitations on changing money came to be seen as quaint. Paradoxically, it is the holdouts with capital controls, like China and India, that have weathered the financial crisis much better than others, because they were not vulnerable to a sudden exodus of capital.
"I've been told, 'China seems to be coming out of the crisis well because it has capital controls, so what's wrong with reimposing controls?' " said Linda Tsao Yang, the American envoy to the Asian Development Bank.
Ms. Yang and other American officials are wary of capital controls, however, particularly the rigid kind imposed by Malaysia that ban most investments from being taken out of the country within the first year. Scholars say that such capital controls offer short-term benefits but tend to discourage investment in the long run and often get mired in corruption and inefficiency.
"There is a significant risk that over the next three or four quarters short-term results from Malaysia will be seen as beneficial," said William R. Cline, the chief economist of the Institute of International Finance in Washington. "An illusory temporary success could tempt other countries to follow suit."
The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development this week backed the right of countries to adopt emergency capital controls like Malaysia's. Even the Far Eastern Economic Review, a conservative Hong Kong-based magazine owned by Dow Jones & Company, declared its sympathy for capital controls in a recent editorial.
"As we look to Malaysia's unorthodoxy," it said, "we hold our nose and cross our fingers."
While Western economists are mostly unimpressed by Malaysia's controls, many speak highly of a quasi tax that Chile has imposed on short-term borrowings from abroad. With that measure, which the country is in the process of dismantling, Chile has been able to attract foreign capital, but has been less vulnerable to a sudden exodus.
The specific proposals that G-7 finance ministers might discuss to deal with capital flows are unclear. But there is vague talk of increasing supervision over borrowing banks and of establishing funds that could be used to insure depositors or counteract speculative attacks.
"Outright controls on the flow of funds are virtually impossible in this modern, integrated world," said Yuji Tsushima, a finance expert in Japan's Parliament. "But we should have some device through which if the volatility of the market gets too disturbing, it could be mitigated."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS GLOBALIZATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRENDS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); GORDON BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



559 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: THE TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE LOYAL SUPPORTERS;
Clinton Expresses Thanks to Black Americans

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Speaking "from the heart" to some of his most loyal supporters, President Clinton thanked black Americans today for backing him in a time of trouble.
The President opened his remarks at the annual dinner of the Congressional Black Caucus, saying "I want to thank you for standing up for me and understanding the true meaning of repentance and atonement." 
 Mr. Clinton credited black legislators for supporting his policies and helping to promote "this treasured moment of prosperity and progress." But he laid out a long list of challenges yet to be conquered, from containing the global financial crisis to expanding access to health care and eliminating racism.
Over and over, he declared: "We cannot rest. We have work to do."
He listed a number of areas in which minorities are affected disproportionately, including certain health problems and fair housing. And he stressed the importance of making sure the next census does not leave out many minorities.
"This has enormous consequences for how we distribute the bounty of America," he said.
Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, chairwoman of the black caucus, got a standing ovation as she told her organization that while blacks do not always agree with the President, "We support Bill Clinton at this critical moment in his career." She added: "It is because African-Americans are uniquely qualified to know unfairness when we see it."
The President was joined at the black caucus dinner by Vice President Al Gore, who earlier in the evening addressed the Human Rights Campaign dinner of about 2,000 gay and lesbian activists, another group that has remained loyal to Mr. Clinton.
Elizabeth Birch, executive director of the Human Rights Campaign, alluded to the investigation of the President in saying, "Let us not become a nation of hunters and the hunted, a condition that our community knows all too well." She spoke of supporting Clinton "as the President and his family work through this difficult time."
Mr. Gore used his speech to the Human Rights Campaign to urge the Senate to schedule a vote on James Hormel as ambassador to Luxembourg. Senate Republican leaders have blocked a vote to protest what some have called Mr. Hormel's promotion of a "gay life style."
Mr. Gore challenged the Senate to give Mr. Hormel "the up-or-down vote he deserves." He also urged the Congress to approve employment non-discrimination legislation and tougher laws against hate crimes.
At both dinners, Mr. Gore said the Clinton administration had been "one of the most successful administrations in history" for its diversity in Federal appointments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT AFRICAN AMERICANS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ETHICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (73%); LEGISLATION (70%); LGBT RIGHTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%); CENSUS (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (79%); MAXINE WATERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



560 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Political Briefing;
Wilson's Love-Him, Love-Him-Not Polls

BYLINE: By B. Drummond Ayres Jr. 

 BODY:
Pete Wilson has fought a lot of tough battles in almost eight years as Governor of California. But his toughest fight has always been with the polls.
Despite his respectable successes in pushing through legislative programs, despite his mostly middle-of-the-road brand of Republicanism and despite his impressive come-from-behind re-election victory in 1994, he has never gotten very high job performance ratings from his constituents. 
 With rare exception, they have always viewed him more negatively than positively when approached by poll-takers, with many saying the problem is not so much what he does in office as the dry, hard-edged way he tends to do it.
Polls taken over the last eight years -- and there have been dozens -- have typically found that roughly 35 percent of the respondents give the Governor a poor to very poor job performance rating, compared with only about 27 percent rating him very good to good. Thirty-five percent or so have rated him fair and the remaining 3 percent have been undecided.
But as the Governor prepares to leave office in early 1999, his poll numbers are starting to change, according to the latest survey conducted by the Field Poll, perhaps California's best-known public opinion organization.
Mr. Wilson's negatives versus positives have essentially flip-flopped, with about 35 percent of the respondents now rating his job performance very good to good, compared with less than 30 percent rating it poor to very poor. The fair and the undecided ratings remain about the same.
Why the flip-flop?
The Governor may have mellowed a bit recently. But the real reason for his improved poll numbers, the poll-takers say, is a perception among Californians that with the economy up, crime down, roads better, the environment cleaner and taxes holding steady, life is better in the Golden State -- and Mr. Wilson should get some of the credit.
Still, the pollsters caution the Governor about reading his current numbers as an all-clear for him to run again for President, something he has been considering.
Californians didn't want him to run in 1996 and, according to the new Field Poll, close to two of every three don't want him to try it again in 2000.
Without biggest-of-all California, a second Wilson candidacy almost certainly would be doomed, too.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Pete Wilson of California (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (53%); GOLDEN STATE IRRIGATION SERVICES (53%); FIELD POLL (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIELD POLL (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; GOVERNORS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FIELD POLL POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); CRIME RATES (71%); 

PERSON: WILSON, PETE (GOV); AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



561 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 103; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1681 words

HEADLINE: Inyourface the Nation

BYLINE: By James Traub; James Traub, a contributing writer for the magazine, most recently wrote about Nathan Glazer.

 BODY:
It's 3 P.M., Monday, Aug. 17. President Clinton is in the White House Map Room, testifying, and Chris Matthews, the flaxen-haired, pink-faced, know-it-all and occasionally unhinged host of "Hardball With Chris Matthews," is sitting in his office in the Washington quarters of CNBC, scarfing a basket of Wendy's fried chicken. For Matthews, this is the Day of Days -- to be equaled later, of course, by Sept. 11, the day of the Starr report's release -- and in his excitement he's spraying bits of biscuit on his tie. "Hardball" is one of a half-dozen shows, mostly on cable, that for the past seven months have been Monicamonicamonica. There's "Rivera Live," also on CNBC; "The Big Show" and "The News With Brian Williams" on MSNBC, and "Hannity & Colmes" and "The Crier Report" on Fox News.
It's a Darwinian world out there, and in this jungle of passion and diatribe, Chris Matthews is not about to end up as anybody's lunch. He calls Bill Clinton a liar about a hundred times a night, and he mows down the defenders of the President foolish or desperate or brave enough to appear on the show. There's an almost Rabelaisian zest about Matthews: he lays about him with such indiscriminate excitement that he flattens friend and foe alike. "Hardball" is the most fervent of a fervent lot; it's also probably the most entertaining. 
 Matthews, 52, is a political junkie of classic lineage. A streetwise Catholic kid who grew up in Philadelphia, he was trained by the Jesuit fathers at Holy Cross, served in the Peace Corps (rather than Vietnam) and worked as a speech writer for Jimmy Carter and as an aide and quotemeister for House Speaker Tip O'Neill. He now writes a newspaper column for The San Francisco Examiner and has written a book about Capitol Hill (also called "Hardball") and a perfectly creditable book about the relationship between Nixon and the Kennedys. He is a pol, a moralist and a philosopher. He has more theories than a Yale English professor; he has a theory about why he talks fast, a theory about why he yells and, of course, a theory about our obsessional interest in the President's sex life.
Matthews tends to keep talking until he's interrupted (and beyond), so his theory is rather involved. It goes, in part, as follows:
"The great defining circus of our time was the cold war, which was the great gladiatorial spectacle, Us against Them, Us at home against Us. Every great gladiatorial contest was part of this wonderful, unbelievably stark, Manichaean struggle. And that went away. The bad guys are gone. Now you have bread; you have bread like you've never had it. Bill Clinton thought it was just about bread, he was convinced it was bread -- give these people their market, give them their Dow, give them their unemployment rate down to 4, 3. Bread! But there's something missing, something we need to have in our life, something gladiatorial, something Kulturkampf, the big question, who we are, who's in, who's out, who's right, who's wrong. Hey, O.J. came along. And Lady Di came along for working women. That stunned me. That story was a Roman candle: it only lasted a week and a half or two, but it was really hot. Why do we have these things? We want to be tested. Think about the Roman Empire, about the circuses of Nero. Think about a circus as establishing a society's tests -- who's in, who's out, who's part of us, who's not part of us, what kind of country do we want to live in? I haven't figured this out yet, obviously. It's a great metaphor."
Or, possibly, it's an appalling metaphor that makes for great TV. I asked Matthews if maybe the reason most Americans say they want to hear less, not more, about Monica is that they don't want their politics to be a circus. "Yeah," he conceded, with the air of a man accepting a premise to rebut an inference. "That's the way some people look at it." Several journalists who have appeared on the show told me that they believe Matthews's assault on the President is dictated strictly by ratings, not belief. Matthews angrily denies this. Though he remains at least a semi-chastened liberal, he also describes himself as something of a William Bennett conservative who considers nonchalance toward the President's sexual behavior to be a sign of loose cultural moorings.
And yet, one of the great oddities of the Lewinsky affair is that elites in the media and politics -- the very class that people like Matthews accuse of waging a war against traditional American values -- have been far more exercised about it than the citizens whose views they claim to represent. So if ordinary Americans are not clamoring for more Monica, who is the "we" who need a Kulturkampf? Perhaps it's the media -- that is, perhaps "Hardball" creates Monica, rather than the other way around. The cold war didn't need "Meet the Press" to grab the nation's attention; but O.J. needed Geraldo, and Geraldo, obviously, needed O.J. The nexus between mega-event and talk show has grown ever tighter since the hostage crisis created "Nightline." Now it seems naive to speak of such events as existing independently of their coverage. The shows live from event to event, circus to circus. When Matthews's program was first shown in 1994, on the short-lived America's Talking channel, it was called "In-Depth," a name that already sounds quaint. In this feverish new world, Monica was a godsend; no matter what Matthews says about ratings, it was the scandal that persuaded CNBC to expand "Hardball" from half an hour to an hour in March.
And after Monica? We'll have to have something else -- a new cliffhanger, a new personal drama inflated to apocalyptic proportions.
Talk about "wonderful" -- on the day of Days, CNBC decided to air "Hardball" live rather than taped, in two segments, before and after the President's 10 P.M. speech. Waiting to go on before the speech, Matthews sat in his office, furiously scribbling questions on blue cards. A TV set in the corner showed a fixed image of the White House entrance through which prosecutors were expected to exit -- tedium laced with tension. Matthews felt history floating in the atmosphere; he wanted to be equal to the moment. "My goal for tonight," he told his staff, "is three different levels. We treat the moral, the legal and the political, and we ask ourselves the right questions, as Roger Mudd did back in '74," during Mudd's post-mortem analysis of Richard Nixon's resignation speech.
At 20 minutes till 8, Matthews took the elevator down to the studio and seated himself at a crescent-shaped table. His guests for the first hour included Stuart Taylor, the respected legal journalist and a harsh critic of the President; Ron Nessen, the former White House spokesman (for Gerald Ford); Marcia Clark, the former O.J. prosecutor, and Elizabeth Holtzman and Dennis DeConcini, former members of Congress. The Monica shows have been a tremendous boon to former everythings. The cable programs have so much air time to fill -- Matthews alone runs through 50 guests a week -- that they often have to rely on people with only the kind of hypothetical expertise conferred by resumes.
Matthews opened solemnly. The ultimate question, he said, was, "Can the chief law-enforcement agent of the nation play with the truth and still lead the nation?" Then, with the magic words, "Let's play hardball!" the circus began. Stuart Taylor said reports indicated that the President would admit in his speech to "some sort of sexual relationship" with Lewinsky, and that he had not been "completely candid about it." Matthews jumped on him. "Why do you use terms like 'some sort of' and 'completely?"' Taylor was on Matthews's side, but he had made the mistake of stating the case in neutral terms. On "Hardball" there is no middle. If you have trouble with that, you don't get invited back. "He lied," Taylor said, dropping the legalistic phrase. "We all know he lied."
The gladiatorial combat that gives "Hardball" its faintly sadistic appeal is not, interestingly, between the guests but between the host and his guests. Matthews is a gleeful warrior, by turns mocking, witty, high-minded and bullying. Even if he doesn't know more than his guests, he can generally out-argue them; and when he can't do that, he can just talk them into the ground. Now he turned to Marcia Clark, in Los Angeles, and said, "He's now saying that the kind of sex he had with Monica Lewinsky did not constitute sexual relations, and it seems to me by that definition, Hugh Grant should be exonerated for what happened to him on the Sunset Strip several months back, and every hooker that's picked up on Broadway tonight for selling sex should be exonerated." Clark had battled wits with Johnnie Cochran, but Matthews reduced her to an equivocal stammer.
By now, Matthews didn't need his guests at all. He turned to the camera and shouted: "I'd like to suggest that in every household and every car pool and every barroom in America, and every party you've been to in the past seven months, there's been somebody who's spoken up for the President and said, 'I believe he didn't have this relationship.' All of those people are part of the recruited, commissioned and put-in-the-field army of Clinton liars. He has made them all into liars. . .and tonight he better come on and apologize to those people." It was a majestic outburst, at least if you hate President Clinton. If you didn't, it was just plain menacing. Then he cut to Elizabeth Holtzman in New York, a staunch Presidential defender, and reduced her to waving her hands and saying, "Chris . . . Chris . . . Chris" as he buried her beneath a torrent of words.
Afterwards, back in his office, Matthews looked out the window and said: "I got too emotional. What happened out there?" What happened to restraint -- the whole rising-to-the-moment thing? Matthews genuinely would like to give off light as well as heat, but some combination of intellectual vanity, lack of table manners and sheer passion does him in every time. Of course, that's why he's on the air. If you want depth, you can read a book.

GRAPHIC: Photo: (Jill Greenberg for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (69%); SAN FRANCISCO EXAMINER (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (68%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); WRITERS (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



562 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 25; Column 3; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Books in Brief: Nonfiction

BYLINE: By Christina Cho 

 BODY:

Something to Declare
By Julia Alvarez.
Algonquin, $20.95. 
 The experience of enduring the disorientations of learning a new culture informs "Something to Declare," a collection of personal essays by the poet and novelist Julia Alvarez, who emigrated at the age of 10 from the Dominican Republic to the United States. With admirable candor and gentle touches of humor, she describes her struggles with cultural hybridism, historical and personal memory, the English language and the effects of all these on her literary career, which became for her an endless language lesson, an endless exploration of "how words can contain and hold and pinpoint experience." But while these essays offer a highly accessible introduction to Alvarez's work, much of their substance has been better expressed in her other work. She defines "Something to Declare" as a response to queries from her readers, since "I could not really say to any of them, 'Read my novels or my poems or my stories.' These folks wanted what my boarding-school housemother used to call a straight answer." What gets lost in translation, so to speak, is the graceful fusion of lush imagery and poetic economy that emerges in her fiction and poems. These essays merely retread the familiar terrain of Alvarez's finer work, which has rendered superfluous hundreds of pages of straight answers. Christina Cho

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: SOMETHING TO DECLARE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POETRY (91%); WRITERS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); 

PERSON: CHO, CHRISTINA; ALVAREZ, JULIA JULIA ALVAREZ (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1998



563 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: The Work Must Go On

BYLINE: By Leonard Garment; Leonard Garment was counsel to President Richard Nixon and is the author of "Crazy Rhythm," a memoir about Watergate.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Ihad lunch with President Clinton last week. Well, not quite. I was at the counter of a pizza parlor next door to my office, wolfing down a slice to the accompaniment of the restaurant's television set, which was tuned to cable news. Mr. Clinton was on the screen, but his voice was inaudible in the bedlam of the restaurant. He was addressing the National Farmers' Union and saying something about providing emergency financing to farmers.
I was more interested in the television image: the President's handsome head bobbing and weaving from side to side, the picture of a cheerful, vigorous, buoyantly confident man. It seemed surreal. This man is in trouble? You can't be serious. 
 President Clinton is of course in the deepest trouble, sliding steadily toward impeachment proceedings. It is impossible to know whether he will dig himself out, how long the drama will drag on, and what effect the distractions and anxieties of the gathering storm may have on the nation's business. I have seen the process before -- as counsel to Richard Nixon in 1973 and 1974 during the decline and fall of his Presidency.
The course of the Nixon Administration's dissolution after the Watergate break-in was nasty, brutish and very long. During Nixon's last two years in office, he suffered the forced resignations of his principal aides, Bob Haldeman and John Ehrlichman; the conviction of John Mitchell, his friend, law partner, Attorney General and campaign chief; the discovery and release of the humiliating and incriminating White House tapes, and the forced resignation of his Vice President.
These blows left Nixon desperately wounded, yet he considered the prospect of leaving the Presidency before finishing his term an unacceptable shame. Even after impeachment was inevitable, Nixon struggled to survive in the only life he considered worth living. For the last year of his Presidency he was imprisoned, psychologically and politically, in Watergate.
Yet the world did not stand still. This was a time of international change and crisis. There was detente to be implemented, China to be opened, a Vietnam peace to be maintained. In 1973 the Middle East erupted in war and there was an Arab oil boycott, which rocked the world economy.
Watergate severely diminished Nixon's ability to deal with these crises. It virtually destroyed the prestige and power of his Presidency. By 1974 his standing among foreign leaders, once pre-eminent, was reduced to a pantomime of ceremonial courtesies. The historic foreign policy structure that Nixon and his national security adviser, Henry Kissinger, had painstakingly assembled during their first term became a hollow shell. The fragile peace in Vietnam soon collapsed.
Watergate also depleted Nixon's energy and distorted his judgment. Monica Crowley, whose biography, "Nixon in Winter," chronicles the former President's last years, says he repeatedly told her that his judgment was "off" as a consequence of his bitter and exhausting effort to survive.
The night Nixon called me to the White House after midnight simply to hear a long, furious denunciation of a leak of one of his tapes epitomized his distraction from his Presidential duties. Watergate was the order of the day every day until the end.
President Clinton and his senior political advisers are alert students of Presidential history, and their response to his present crisis is no exception. Even as the nation awaits release today of videotapes of Mr. Clinton's testimony under oath, he seems determined to ignore the scandals and hammer away at national issues, raise campaign money and rally his political supporters.
The subtext in each event is clear. The President met with Vaclav Havel last week to confer about Europe. Peace is fragile, Mr. Clinton was saying; the President's resignation would increase the peril. Another emerging theme is that the global economy is in great danger, and that impeachment would add grievously to the threat of economic instability.
A newcomer to national attention, Chaka Fattah, a black Democratic Representative from Pennsylvania, is arguing on many cable news shows that the impeachment of President Clinton could cause the loss of two to four million American jobs, a burden that would be visited disproportionately on African-Americans and the poor. In a show of forensic chutzpah, Mr. Fattah supported this thesis by asserting that Nixon's resignation caused a similar rise in unemployment.
Will Mr. Clinton's strategy work? This President has the advantage of job approval ratings higher than Nixon enjoyed and an economy that is more robust. Mr. Clinton has the added asset of a temperament far different from Nixon's. Nixon could not lie without betraying acute embarrassment; Clinton is -- well, different. Nixon brought to the Presidential office a collection of angers and resentments that seriously distorted his political calculations. Mr. Clinton bears fewer of these deforming wounds.
Still, over time, it is certain that the pressures will take their toll, even on a President as sturdy as Mr. Clinton. For this reason, the country has to begin an orderly process for resolution of the charges against him. We cannot achieve closure overnight. Some Congressmen, pundits and editorial writers have begun to call for the President's resignation -- but that, in Nixon's immortal words, would be wrong. The country is not yet ready for such a trauma.
The constitutional process should go forward, and though this formula may seem like a conventional piety, it is not. The impeachment process -- the consideration, the hearings, the drafting of impeachment articles, the debate and vote -- take time, and that time is needed for the country to consider its options.
This purgatory will impose painful human costs, but they can be borne. The other night I ran into a member of a major regulatory commission, a supporter of the President and the First Lady since their first national campaign. He was dismayed by the current mess. "What would you do?" he asked me.
"No anguished press conferences," I said without hesitation. "No resignations on principle. Just keep working."
I was surprised at my swift certainty. But, then, I've been there. As Watergate's clouds gathered and swelled over the Nixon Administration, people on the inside had to decide each day whether to keep working or to detach themselves from their jobs and from the President. His problems increased the nation's problems, which was all the more reason that those of us who chose to stay and cope never regretted it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

COMPANY: NIXON ADMINISTRATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WATERGATE AFFAIR; ETHICS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); POLITICS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); ETHICS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GARMENT, LEONARD; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W; NIXON, RICHARD MILHOUS (1913-94) BILL CLINTON (90%); RICHARD NIXON (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



564 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
TrueNorth's new unit aims to reach ethnic households, which have money to spend.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
A GIANT agency company is stepping up its efforts in multicultural marketing, forming a unit devoted to encouraging advertisers to keep pace with the changing face of consumers by increasing sales pitches aimed at ethnic groups.
The unit, New America Strategies Group, is being introduced by True North Communications in Chicago, the world's sixth-largest agency company, with estimated billings of $10.8 billion handled by units like Bozell Worldwide and Foote, Cone & Belding. The start-up is timed to coincide with a three-day conference, beginning tomorrow in Chicago, that describes ethnic marketing as a "gateway to America's trillion-dollar growth markets," which include black, Hispanic and Asian-American consumers. 
 As part of the conference, sponsored by True North and the Strategic Research Institute in New York, New America Strategies Group will share results of a study analyzing household shopping and spending propensities of multicultural and white families.
The most intriguing initial finding of the study is that household spending of multicultural families, on purchases deemed essential and discretionary, is growing faster than for white families in 10 of 13 categories in a New America Market Basket Index, which include vehicle purchases, clothing and utilities.
"Multicultural Americans are in many ways the growth engine of the economy," said Alfred L. Schreiber, who becomes managing partner of New America Strategies Group, based in New York.
"C.E.O.'s who can manage change will be the winners," he added. "And one of the biggest coming changes is the rise of what we call the New America, which probably offers the best opportunity for companies for organic growth."
True North is joining a lengthening list of mainstream agency companies that are devoting additional resources to multiethnic marketing. For instance, Young & Rubicam Inc. in New York, which already owns shops specializing in advertising aimed at Hispanic and Asian-American consumers, is acquiring operations of One World Communications, a unit of Leap Group in Chicago dedicated to multicultural marketing.
Those intensifying activities have stirred irritation and anxiety among the smaller, independent agencies -- many of which are owned by members of minorities -- that have long focused on the ethnic market.
"There are a number of outstanding ethnic agencies and I applaud them," said Charles D. Peebler Jr., president of True North and chairman and chief executive of True North Diversified Companies, the division under which New America Strategies Group will operate.
"But we are looking at the broader, total multicultural picture," he added, "which marketers have yet to give the substantial time and attention they should be."
The new unit is offering clients a planning tool called the Multicultural Marketing Opportunity Model, intended to analyze the return on investment of initiatives aimed at ethnic consumers.
New America Strategies Group will comprise three agencies and a marketing consulting company. These are the agencies:
*Siboney USA in New York, which specializes in advertising, direct marketing, promotion and public relations directed at Spanish-speaking consumers. Siboney, which also has offices in Dallas, Los Angeles and Miami, has billings estimated at $50 million from clients like the Colgate-Palmolive Company and Mastercard International.
*Stedman Graham & Partners in Chicago and New York, which specializes in marketing communications campaigns aimed primarily at African-Americans. The agency, founded in 1996 as Graham Gregory Bozell, works for such advertisers as Johnson & Johnson and Merrill Lynch & Company.
*Admerasia in New York, an affiliate of True North that creates campaigns in languages including Chinese, Indian, Japanese, Korean, Russian and Vietnamese for marketers like the American Express Company and the Citibank unit of Citicorp.
The consulting-company component of the new unit is Skunkworks Marketing Lab in New York, whose clients include the AT&T Corporation and the Coca-Cola Company.
New America Strategies Group will be overseen by a partners board. The members are: Mr. Peebler, 62; Mr. Schreiber, 52, who is also executive vice president and general manager at Graham; Stedman Graham, 47, chairman and chief executive at Graham; Jose M. Cubas, 68, chairman at Siboney; Richard Mascolo, 43, president at Skunkworks, and Val Zammit, 51, president and chief operating officer at True North Diversified Companies.
The market basket study, developed in alliance with the Demograph Corporation, a management consulting company in Miami, concluded that spending by multicultural households has grown 17.8 percent from 1995 to 1998, compared with an increase of 13.1 percent for white households in the same period.
The categories in which the growth rate in spending in multicultural households most exceeded the growth rate in spending in white households were entertainment, vehicle purchases and health care. As a sign of upward mobility among ethnic consumers, the study showed, spending has been shifting from public transportation to purchasing vehicles and from rental housing to homeowning. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: TRUE NORTH COMMUNICATIONS INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (92%); TRUE NORTH DIVERSIFIED COS (84%); YOUNG & RUBICAM INC (65%); DRAFTFCB INC (57%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (57%); BOZELL INC (57%); STRATEGIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE KK (56%); LEAPNET INC (52%); NEW AMERICA STRATEGIES GROUP (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUE NORTH COMMUNICATIONS NEW AMERICA STRATEGIES GROUP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (91%); ETHNICITY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



565 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW;
Double Bind in Nebraska: Farming and a Marriage

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:
It's a delicate matter. Juanita and Darrel Buschkoetter are not made-for-television characters whom a reviewer can kick around without getting personal. They are a young Nebraska farm couple, parents of three, whose ordeal of dry weather with its crop of economic and emotional troubles is the subject of "The Farmer's Wife."
David Sutherland, the conscientious filmmaker who culled six and a half hours of television from 200 hours of shooting over three years, trains an intimate yet generally unsentimental lens on the Buschkoetters and their children, parents, creditors and others involved in their battle for a way of life and for a marriage. 
 None of them are noticeably put off by the prying cameras or sound equipment, but their collaboration, which invites comparison with the 1973 television portrait of the Loud family, seems to go on forever. Mr. Sutherland demonstrates that given enough time, a likable, hard-working couple on the edge of disaster can make pretty wearing company.
As the title suggests, Juanita Buschkoetter is at the heart of this chronicle of tough going on the Nebraska range. It begins in the spring of 1995, when the couple are battling to hold onto their small farm. "Am I going to be farming this fall or am I going to be forced to sell out?" Darrel asks and keeps asking. "How can it get any worse?"
Wait and see. If you had any doubt about how hard farm families still work, it should be laid to rest as Darrel takes a job in a factory and Juanita hires out as a housekeeper. Darrel says, "Trying to farm at night and work all day for somebody else, it's worse than a living hell." The pressures, which threaten to reduce the pair from independent farmers to a beaten-down peasantry, buffet their marriage. "The Darrel that's on the surface right now," Juanita says, "it's really hard to deal with him." Fortunately, self-esteem counseling is available even in rural Nebraska.
You have to sympathize with the couple's grit and perseverance, but six and a half hours of worries about getting a Government loan (Senator Bob Kerrey helps) and accepting handouts and enduring family nagging is demanding on the audience, too.
The dialogue can be relentlessly real.
Juanita: Do something. You're sitting here in my way.
Darrel: Like what?
Juanita: Take a bath or. . . .
Darrel: How can I take a bath? Can't take a bath yet.
Juanita: Why?
Darrel: Well, the kids running all over the place.
There is plenty of sensitivity on show during these three long nights -- Mr. Sutherland catches all the nuances of pillow talk -- and no resort to the sensationalism that gave the Louds of Santa Barbara their soap-opera appeal. Missing, however, is a compelling narrative.
"The Farmer's Wife," with its unsparing theme, just doesn't produce enough drama to repay watching unless you have a soft spot for in-law spats and domestic bickerings. By the end, when the weather finally improves, the series slips into a feminist fable, with Juanita going to school and finding a fulfilling job and a newly respectful Darrel taking over the housework.
None of this is a criticism of the Buschkoetters. Few lives are made for television, and their troubles deserve attention. Mr. Sutherland has delivered a respectable sociological document. But for six and a half hours, it would be helpful to have a more eventful story to tell or more variety in the telling.
 
FRONTLINE
The Farmer's Wife
PBS, tonight, Tuesday and Wednesday at 9
(Channel 13 in New York)
 
Written, produced, directed and edited by David Sutherland; Nancy Sutherland, co-producer; Lisa Olivieri, associate producer; original music written and performed by Reeves Gabrels. For ITVS: James Yee, executive producer. For Frontline: Michael Sullivan, executive producer; David Fanning, senior executive producer. A co-production of David Sutherland Productions Inc. and Frontline in association with the Independent Television Service (ITVS).

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Buschkoetter family in Nebraska: Abby, Darrel, Audrey and Juanita holding Whitney in "The Farmer's Wife." (Joel Sartore/"Frontline")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FRONTLINE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEBRASKA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); MARRIAGE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); FAMILY FARMS (77%); FAMILY (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (71%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



566 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Is the Global Capitalist System Collapsing?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Last week, the world's best-known money manager, George Soros, warned that the global capitalist system "is coming apart at the seams."
His view reflected the fear -- felt more strongly by investment professionals than by the individual Americans who entrust their money to the pros -- that the global financial system is under the greatest strain it has faced in decades. 
 Mahathir Mohamad, the Malaysian Prime Minister, imposed capital controls to make it harder for investors to take money out of his country, saying he acted because the "free market has failed disastrously." Mr. Soros, a hedge fund manager previously blamed by Mr. Mahathir for causing Asia's problems, did not sound all that different when he testified to Congress. "Instead of acting like a pendulum," he said, "financial markets have recently acted more like a wrecking ball, knocking over one country after another."
That may be overstating it, but there is no question that international investors have grown very worried. The Dow Jones industrial average is down only 15 percent from the peak it reached in July, but virtually every other market in the world has done much worse. There is a flight of capital from emerging markets, and from less solid companies in established markets.
As that has happened, losses have piled up. It should surprise no one that hedge funds such as those managed by Mr. Soros have done poorly. They make money by using leverage -- that is, by borrowing money -- and placing big bets. If the bets go wrong, they can lose big.
But there have also been large losses in established, and one had thought, more conservatively run, financial institutions. Hardly a day goes by that some bank or brokerage firm does not announce it has lost another $100 million or more. The result has been a fast-fall in the prices of financial stocks.
Those losses reflect the fact that derivative securities are far more prevalent than they ever were before. There is nothing inherently bad in such securities. They simply make it possible to buy or sell risks -- of currency moves, or interest rate rises, or lots of other things -- in ways not possible before.
When Russia's Government and its banks essentially defaulted on their debts, some Western banks found that they faced big losses that they thought they had laid off. They had, for example, entered into trades that would compensate their customers if the ruble plunged in value. Then they covered that bet by entering into the opposite trade with a big Russian bank. When the ruble plunged, they lost money in honoring the first guarantee, and could not make up the loss through the second transaction.
Those losses have stunned investors and reminded them that the current accounting system does not allow them to gauge accurately the risks being taken on with derivatives. Managements of financial institutions have responded by being much more careful in taking those risks. There are signs of a global credit crunch, in which only the safest borrowers can get cash at reasonable rates.
At the same time, the confidence in the ability of the International Monetary Fund and the major Western governments to keep things on an even keel has been shaken. The belief that they would somehow protect imprudent investors grew after the Mexican bailout in 1995, and contributed to the flood of money that went into emerging markets in 1996 and 1997. Now that money is coming out, the I.M.F. is nearly broke, and Western governments have done little.
In that atmosphere, it is easy to talk of the disintegration of the world financial system. But it may also be overdone. In a few months, investors may become less risk averse if they see the world has not collapsed.
As for countries, those that most alarmed investors may be having second thoughts. Russia, which had all but repudiated its foreign debt, last week said it was looking for ways to treat foreign investors better. As for Malaysia, after it was done denouncing the global capitalist system, it hired Salomon Smith Barney to try to float an international loan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TRENDS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD GEORGE SOROS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



567 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Maui's Mayor to Challenge Cayetano in Governor's Race

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Linda Lingle, the two-time Mayor of Maui, won the Republican nomination for governor by a wide margin on Saturday and will face Gov. Benjamin J. Cayetano, a Democrat, in the general election on Nov. 3.
With 99 percent of the precincts reporting, Ms. Lingle had 105,626 votes, or 69 percent. Her opponent, the five-time Mayor of Honolulu, Frank Fasi, received 46,946 votes, or 31 percent. 
 Mr. Cayetano got 93,012 votes, or 86 percent. His closest competitor, Jim Brewer, got 5,963, for 6 percent.
Ms. Lingle attributed her victory in this overwhelmingly Democratic state to crossover votes and said she would need to hold that support if she hoped to defeat Mr. Cayetano.
"I know many of you in this room are not Republicans," Ms. Lingle said at a victory celebration, "and I know that many of you have never voted for a Republican before, or worked on a campaign for a Republican. This election is not about Republicans and Democrats. It's about the future of our state."
But Mr. Cayetano warned Democrats not to be fooled by Ms. Lingle's statement. "That is exactly what this election is all about," he said. "We Democrats have built this state."
Republicans have not occupied the governor's mansion here since William Quinn left office in 1962. But an economic slide over the last eight years or so has stifled business growth, caused a significant drop in tourism and led to a record number of bankruptcy filings, fueling widespread discontent that Republicans are trying to exploit.
That discontent was demonstrated by the crossover votes. Typically, Democrats get twice as many votes as all other parties combined in Hawaii. But this time more votes were cast for Republican candidates, according to early totals of precinct returns and absentee ballots. Turnout was estimated at 45 percent of registered voters.
Both candidates expect a close race, although recent polls give Ms. Lingle a double-digit edge over Mr. Cayetano. A poll conducted a week ago found Ms. Lingle ahead by 48 percent to 34 percent, with 18 percent undecided. The telephone survey of 800 registered voters was conducted for The Honolulu Advertiser and KHON-TV by Ward Research Inc. on Sept. 9-13. The margin of error was 3.5 percentage points.
Elsewhere on the Democratic side, Senator Daniel K. Inouye, who is in his sixth term, got 89 percent of the vote, easily defeating Richard Thompson, an English teacher.
In the Republican race for Mr. Inouye's Senate seat, Crystal Young, a legislative aide, defeated five opponents with 28 percent of the vote.
Two incumbent Democratic Representatives, Patsy T. Mink and Neil Abercrombie, both earned victories in their primaries.
Mr. Abercrombie will face State Representative Gene Ward. Ms. Mink will face Carol Douglass.
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INC RESEARCH INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII; UNITED STATES (93%); HAWAII, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (93%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GOVERNORS (US) CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); BALLOTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); 

PERSON: LINGLE, LINDA (MAYOR); CAYETANO, BENJAMIN (GOV) LINDA LINGLE (79%); DANIEL INOUYE (58%); NEIL ABERCROMBIE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



568 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Needs 8 Seats To Take Texas House

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: BIG SPRING, Tex., Sept. 18

 BODY:
It is a warm, cricket-loud Friday night in West Texas, which means the parking lot is jammed next to the high school football field, big enough to hold much of the town, which it does.
Just a few feet away from the man selling chances on a football autographed by the whole team and the woman handing out discount coupons for chicken fried steak ("50 percent from every purchase goes to the boys," she says) is Scott McLaughlin, wholesale plumber and Republican candidate for the Texas House. 
 "People out here are so conservative," Mr. McLaughlin said as he handed out campaign pamphlets to people carrying their seat cushions through the stadium gates. "Either side, either party. The Republicans, of course, are shocked about what's come out about the President and the Democrats have been somewhat taken aback by it."
There are more than a dozen states, including Texas, where the turnover of a relative handful of seats this November would change control of the Legislature, at a time when an increasing share of the nation's business is being conducted at the state level.
And candidates and political strategists all across the country are wondering how, if at all, President Clinton's troubles might affect state races.
"I still think there's a gap between what happens at the national level, even at the Congressional level, and what happens lower down," said Janice May, a professor of government at the University of Texas in Austin. "In the South there has been a tremendous increase in Republican support, but it takes time to get down to the legislative level. Still, we could very well have a sweep for Republicans in Texas this year."
If eight seats change hands in the Texas House in November, the Republicans, who have controlled the state Senate since 1996, will have sway over the entire Legislature for the first time since Reconstruction in the 1870's. The party is giving extra money and support to candidates, like Mr. McLaughlin, who are in key races.
But some experts caution that a Republican turnaround is not guaranteed.
"I did a study back in June based on primary turnout and other things in which I was absolutely sure there would be a downturn in turnout and that would benefit the Republicans, especially in states like Texas," said Curtis Gans, director of the Committee for the Study of the American Electorate. "But we've got a couple of wild cards now that make me want to hedge my bets a bit."
Among the wild cards are the state of the economy. For instance, Mr. Gans said, if the stock market dips even more, which is entirely possible, or unemployment rises significantly, which seems much less likely, it could burst public optimism about the economy which has buoyed the campaigns of incumbents.
Even more vexing, he said, is whether the President's troubles will dampen Democratic turnout, or whether perceived Republican missteps in handling the crisis will rankle the Democratic rank-and-file sufficiently to get them out to the polls.
Mr. McLaughlin, whose great-grandfather began by selling windmills to farmers and who now sells well equipment, plumbing fixtures and high-end kitchen appliances from a two-story building off Interstate 20, says that he intends to include a pitch about character and integrity in the new television spots he will shoot next week for the fall campaign. He knows it is a way of talking about Mr. Clinton.
The trick, he said, is to choose just the right words to raise the character issue without making it look like the Republicans are taking advantage of the President's situation. He is still working on it.
"I can definitely tell you that the issue of virtue and character will be a part of my message this fall," he said.
Republicans in Texas, sensing an opportunity, are redoubling their efforts in the wake of the release of Kenneth W. Starr's report on the President.
Besides the state party's financing efforts, a separate "Eight in '98" political action committee was formed earlier this year to feed money into targeted races, like Mr. McLaughlin's, that could shift the balance in the House, which currently has 68 Republicans and 82 Democrats. In the state senate, the Republicans hold 17 seats to the Democrats' 13.
"I would say the President's problems are a factor, but not the only factor," said Robert Black, a spokesman for the state Republican Party. "We've also got an extremely popular governor in George W. Bush at the top of our ticket in November, and a strong slate for all the statewide offices. We definitely feel we have a good shot at it."
No consensus has formed on what the Democratic Party's national problems might mean in statewide races in battleground states like Texas. Guesses are all across the map; from no impact to full impact.
And at least one veteran Texas prognosticator, Robert Stein, a professor of political science at Rice University, believes that Republicans eager for a November rout here may well be in for a surprise.
"My money now is on the House staying Democrat and the Senate possibly going back into Democratic hands," he said. "Although the whole thing is very much up for grabs. A lot depends on how good these campaigns are in the coming weeks and how much ticket-splitting there is going to be. Mostly what you hear from candidates is that no one wants to listen. Voters are disinterested."
The 70th Legislative District sprawls across 12 rural counties in West Texas, coming up to the edge of, without entering, three of the region's biggest cities: Lubbock, Midland and Abilene. The district encompasses mile after mile of cotton farms, ranches and small towns.
The district has been represented for a decade by David Counts, a Democrat from Knox County, on the far side of the district from Mr. McLaughlin's home in Big Spring. Mr. McLaughlin first ran against him two years ago, losing by a slim margin.
In 1996, Mr. McLaughlin focused his campaign on neighborhood walks, knocking on more than 10,000 doors. This year, he said, he will knock on about the same number.
His message is drawn directly from the Ronald Reagan playbook, by way of Newt Gingrich; smaller government, fewer regulations, strong family values.
Mr. McLaughlin spent about $140,000 on the 1996 campaign, he said, and plans to spend roughly the same amount this year in his rematch against Mr. Counts. Some of that money comes from local donors, but some comes from "Eight in '98," which offers logistical and strategic advice, as well as money.
Mr. Counts was at a Democratic event earlier this month in a church picnic grounds north of Abilene. "The Republicans came after me two years ago and they're doing it again," he said. "They keep trying to tie me to President Clinton, but it won't work. I personally think this Clinton thing is going to go away real quick. The last straw was the lurid detail that Ken Starr put in that report. Now the people know his heart was black and his cause was not pure."
Mr. McLaughlin does not really know how much national political crises will affect his race, nor how much he will benefit from Governor Bush's coattails in November.
"We like to tie ourselves to Bush as much as we can," Mr. McLaughlin said. "After all, we're both singing from the same sheet of music."
The Governor has been in the district a couple of times to campaign for himself and for local Republicans, and each visit has meant a boost for Mr. McLaughlin.
What would happen, Mr. McLaughlin is asked, if President Clinton came to the 70th District to campaign for his opponent?
A smile spread across his face.
"The election," he said, "would be over."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott McLaughlin, a wholesale plumber and Republican candidate for the Texas House. (Gerald Ewing for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (96%); TEXAS, USA (96%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: LYMAN, RICK; MCLAUGHLIN, SCOTT BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



569 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Clinton's Strange Power

 BODY:
The Lewinsky scandal has weakened Bill Clinton's grasp on his office, but it may have given him a peculiar new weapon in the budget wars. Only a few weeks from adjournment, Congress is engaged in the annual autumn ritual of confronting the White House over taxes and spending, just when Mr. Clinton is braving the impeachment firestorm on an island of his own contradictions. But in that weakness lies a paradoxical kind of strength. The more feeble the President seems, the more seriously Congress takes his demands. The last thing Congressional Republicans want is to distract the public from Mr. Clinton's troubles and provoke a searching look at the G.O.P. budget priorities.
Republicans in the House are threatening to find money for emergency spending on Bosnia, farm assistance and embassy security by cutting summer jobs and home heating assistance for poor people. Mr. Clinton says he will veto if they do. In the Senate, Republicans want to attach 24 anti-environmental riders to the Interior Department appropriations bill, while cutting funds to combat water pollution and to restore the Everglades. The President says he will veto the bill if it reaches his desk in its present form. Republicans have provoked another veto warning by threatening to attach a school voucher program to a District of Columbia spending bill. Proposed amendments to other bills would undermine family planning programs at home and abroad. 
 To all these threats, the White House is saying, "Make my day." It is itching for a fight on anything that will portray Mr. Clinton as a man of principle, thereby throwing the Republicans on the defensive. The fire breathers in the House, like David McIntosh of Indiana, want to press an ambitious agenda on spending, tax cuts and social issues. But calmer heads like House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Bob Livingston, the Appropriations Committee chairman, believe that it would be folly to allow President Clinton to campaign on the issues and thus deflect attention from a scandal that they believe has lifted their chances in November.
Hoping to carve out something for the voters, Republicans in both houses are scrambling to bridge their differences on a tax cut of as much as $80 billion, paid for by this year's budget surplus. Last week, the President vowed again to veto it, arguing that the money should be set aside to rescue Social Security. The White House worries that some Democrats will defect, which is possible because they fear that Mr. Clinton will simply make a deal that undercuts them and makes them look foolish. The Lewinsky scandal is not the only reason that some Democrats doubt Mr. Clinton's constancy.
In all this strategizing is the sad spectacle of what might have been. No wonder the Democrats are despondent and mutinous. Earlier this year, they had polls showing that the public was placing its confidence in Democrats on health care, education and the economy for the first time in years. There would be a competitive race to control the House, and Richard Gephardt allowed himself to dream the dreams of becoming Speaker.
Now it is all gone. The public can only look with wonder on these developments. Mr. Clinton's leverage, a zen mutation of weakness into strength, may work this year to advance his budget goals, and victory on these items would be good for the country. But it will mean little if he cannot pump other kinds of authority into his hollowed-out Presidency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ETHICS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); VETO (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); ETHICS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (65%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (63%); FAMILY PLANNING (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); ROBERT A LIVINGSTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



570 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: Darkest Hour at U.N. For Richest Deadbeat

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 18

 BODY:
In the annals of American relations with the United Nations, supporters and critics of the organization broadly agree, there has never been a more dismal moment than this.
When President Clinton, personally tarnished by the Monica Lewinsky scandal, speaks here on Monday, he will face an organization that is likely to strip the United States of its General Assembly vote by the end of this year for nonpayment of dues. Washington owes the organization more than $1.5 billion. 
 Mr. Clinton, the political heir to Presidents Roosevelt and Truman -- who fought to create a strong United Nations and give it Washington's firm bipartisan support -- is now viewed by many diplomats and officials here as too weak or unwilling to battle a hostile Congress to preserve that pivotal American role.
And the United States is now without a chief representative to the organization since the departure of Bill Richardson and Republican blocking of Richard C. Holbrooke's appointment as his successor.
The organization's largest contributor is now Japan, which kept its dues payments up to date despite a recession. What is helping keep the United Nations afloat -- barely -- is that the Japanese, Europeans and some developing countries have not been reimbursed for providing peacekeeping troops, allowing the money to be applied instead to the operating budget.
"People are furious -- our allies are furious," said Alvin P. Adams, a former ambassador who is president of the United Nations Association of the United States, an advocacy and research organization with chapters around the country.
Mr. Adams' organization, known as UNA-USA, recently announced poll results showing that a growing percentage of Americans approve of the United Nations and want the United States to pay its overdue assessments, without conditions. Eighty percent of those polled opposed linking the payments to anti-abortion restrictions on international family planning groups, as Congress has done.
In the UNA-USA survey, conducted Aug. 21 to 25 by Wirthlin Worldwide, 72 percent of 1,005 adults said it was "very important" that the United States remain an active member of the United Nations, which they ranked higher than NATO, the World Bank and the World Health Organization. Seventy-three percent said Washington should pay its dues.
Sixty percent of those surveyed also said the United Nations was doing a good job, the highest rating UNA-USA has seen in a variety of polls since 1959. Contrary to what some members of Congress and the Clinton Administration believe, the poll found that many Americans say that they would take attitudes toward the United Nations into account when voting for members of Congress, although this would not be a major factor.
"These polls have taken a jump in public opinion since we took our last poll two years ago," said John C. Whitehead, a former Deputy Secretary of State and chairman of UNA-USA. Speaking at a news conference here on Thursday, Mr. Whitehead said there has long been a "some kind of disconnect between public opinion on the United Nations and the voting record of Congress, at least in recent years."
The new poll also found a much higher approval rating for Secretary General Kofi Annan -- although 25 percent of those polled had never heard of him -- than a similar poll in late 1995 found for his predecessor, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, whose name had become the butt of Republican ridicule. Mr. Annan's performance was given a 53 percent approval rating compared with Mr. Boutros-Ghali's 30 percent.
Mr. Adams said Mr. Annan's political skills and personable approach to Americans is probably helping improve the image of the United Nations in the United States.
"He's has a sense of the politics of the public that it's hard to think of any other Secretary General who's had that," Mr. Adams said in an interview. "Some of the good movement in public opinion about the U.N. is due to the fact that there is a face now, a face that is warm and approachable, and people identify with him."
But even Mr. Annan has become disillusioned with Washington, as protestations of support for the United Nations in the Administration and Congress fail repeatedly to turn into tangible support.
In order to avoid losing its General Assembly vote, the United States will have to pay about $200 million by Dec. 31. But even if Congress, which is locked in a confrontation with President Clinton over an anti-abortion amendment to legislation, is able to authorize the money in the current session, dozens of conditions, some requiring Administration certification, are expected to block payment to the United Nations.
Congress has demanded that the United Nations write off some back dues; some members insist that the organization owes money to Washington and not the other way around. Congress is also demanding further budget and staff cuts at the United Nations and a pledge that the organization not create a standby peacekeeping force that some Americans see as a potentially inimical international army.
Senior officials here say that with every day that passes, it is more likely that the United States will fall automatically under Article 19 of the United Nations Charter, which strips a country of its General Assembly vote when its debt equals or exceeds the assessments due for the preceding two years.
Eighteen nations now fall into this category: Bosnia, Burundi, Cambodia, Comoros, Congo, Dominica, Equatorial Guinea, Georgia, Guinea-Bissau, Iraq, Liberia, Moldova, Sao Tome, Somalia, Tajikistan, Togo, Vanuatu and Yugoslavia.
The United States seat on the Security Council would not be affected.
However, diplomats, including Americans, say that anger toward the United States is beginning to erode support on issues vital to Washington, and that General Assembly votes do decide elections for rotating Security Council seats as well as major initiatives and appointments within the organization at large.
Still, John Bolton, who was Assistant Secretary of State for international organization affairs in the Bush Administration and is now at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington, said in an interview that the loss of a General Assembly vote would not jolt critics.
"If the vote is lost in the General Assembly, that's not going to make people in Washington jump up and say, Gosh!," Mr. Bolton said. "It's going to have exactly the opposite effect."
"This is not a bean-counting argument," he added. "This represents a fundamental divergence of opinion on the right course for the organization."
In Washington, a General Accounting Office report in June said the United Nations' financial problems "have been primarily caused by the accumulation of of unpaid assessments and late payments of assessments by a large number of members." But the G.A.O. report adds that no nation has run up such a large debt to the organization, which amounts to more than half of the organization's annual operating budget of $2.4 billion.
The United States is assessed 25 percent of the regular budget, based on its share in the world economy, though Congress had wanted this reduced to 20 percent by the year 2000. A 31 percent share of peacekeeping has already been unilaterally reduced by Congress to 25 percent, putting the United States in perennial arrears because such changes are recognized only if made according to the Charter by a committee of member nations.
Even when the United States pays on time, its payments have been received late in the year because of a decision in 1983 to tie disbursements to the Federal budget cycle. While the United Nations bills members in January, the United States never pays the bulk of its debts before Oct. 1.
"The U.N.'s cash flow problems stem largely from this U.S. delay in payments," the G.A.O. report said. "The United States is the only major country that regularly schedules payment with this delay factor."
Supporters of the United Nations say that Americans, who take part in increasing numbers in many international activities organized here, from grassroots groups up to national professional organizations, are spreading the word around the country that the United Nations is in trouble, and that the United States is the major cause.
"Perhaps the American public is beginning to become aware of the gravity of the crisis that is facing the organization," said Jeffrey Laurenti, director of policy studies at UNA-USA. "Three out of four said in the poll that the American forfeiture of the vote under Article 19 would be at the very least an embarrassment," he said. "Possibly for many -- almost 40 percent say -- it would actually severely impact on America's ability to do business with other countries."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FINANCES; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RANKINGS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PEACEKEEPING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); FAMILY PLANNING (65%); ARMED FORCES (51%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RICHARDSON, BILL; HOLBROOKE, RICHARD C; CROSSETTE, BARBARA BILL CLINTON (90%); BILL RICHARDSON (88%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



571 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Indian Reservations Bank on Authenticity to Draw Tourists

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: UMATILLA RESERVATION, Ore.

 BODY:
The mercury had pushed over the 100-degree mark again here in the high desert, but the tourists from Germany were undeterred, looking for clues to life in the American West before every small town had an espresso bar. 
 "As children we used to play cowboys and Native Americans," Klaus Pumple, a 37-year-old construction manager from Stuttgart, Germany, said recently. "Now when you pass through the Native American zones in this country, it's kind of depressing, not like you expected. But also, it is so very interesting to see how these people live today."
On the Blackfoot Indian Reservation in Montana, at the high drama nexus of the Great Plains and the Rocky Mountains, Vicky Kilian of the Netherlands had just spent another night sleeping on a dirt floor inside a tent and was wondering whether she could ever return to her life as a business consultant in a very flat country.
"When I sleep in the teepee, I feel a lot of connection to the earth," said Ms. Kilian, 29, who is on her first visit to America. "I have had a fire every night and I have been able to walk over the prairie. It has a very special energy."
American Indian reservations, long considered economic deserts in a landscape of general prosperity, are finding that they have a lot more to offer the world than casinos and art galleries -- they have their homes, their backyards, their stories.
Visitors, especially a growing number of Europeans, are traveling to some of the country's most remote places, like this Indian reservation in central Oregon, in search of life many Americans overlook on their vacations. No theme parks built around fantasies for these travelers. In fact, some of the biggest new attractions are rooted in today's world and in authenticity -- even if it leaves visitors feeling more guilt than vacation relief. Tourists to Indian country spend their holidays hearing tales of heart-numbing atrocities or listening to songs in languages that never show up in Frommer's guides. They come away thrilled.
And for Indians who have figured just how to market this niche of native society, business is booming.
"Europeans have been visiting Indian country since the time of Columbus, but what's really new is Indians getting control of it," said Gordon Bronitsky, a Denver tourism marketer who has just produced a catalogue of Indian travel packages that is going out to 5,000 travel agents in Italy.
A cruise ship full of Germans will tie up next spring near the western Oneida Reservation, next to Green Bay, Wis., after the tour operator reported that visitors requested a stop at an Indian reservation as part of their itinerary.
"We're not going to sit there and say, 'How,' and paint our faces," said Jeff House, a spokesman for the Oneida. "We will try to give an impression of how people live today. We're business people. We go to Packer games."
Other tribes are trying to blend the old with the new. Will Tsosie runs what might be called an Indian bed and breakfast on the Navajo Reservation not far from Canyon de Chelly National Monument in Arizona. He charges $85 a night to stay in a traditional earthen-floored hogan, a cylindrical house with no running water, and a structure in which few Indians live. But he also takes people to visit the local community college.
"Our European guests are very well-prepared and very well-read -- unlike most Americans," Mr. Tsosie said. "If they show up with too much of the wrong attitude, we turn them away." Recently, he said, some people came to the Hopi Reservation looking for a sun dance, and asked whether they could be "pierced" in the chest.
"We told them they had the wrong Indians," Mr. Tsosi said. "Try a thousand miles to the north, with the Lakota."
Roberta Conner, director of the new $18 million Tamastslikt Cultural Center, on the Umatilla Reservation, said, "We get a lot of people who expect they are going to find the Hollywood stereotypes, the beads and feather Indians."
The center, whose Indian name means interpreter, opened this summer after nearly 10 years of planning and is drawing visitors from around the world.
Tamastslikt is the only Indian-run, Indian-owned interpretive center along the entire length of the old Oregon Trail, Ms. Conner said. The trail, from St. Louis to Western Oregon, has long been a magnet for fans of heritage tourism. With the opening of Tamastslikt, she said, there is now another side of the story of Westward expansion, as well as a history of the Indians who have long lived in this region.
The Umatilla and the two other tribes that live on the reservation, the Cayuse and the Walla Walla, sent a delegation to Berlin this year, to the world's biggest tourism trade show. They handed out posters of a Cayuse Indian leader in a buffalo headdress with the slogan "Nicht Ihr Durchschnittlicher Reisefuhrer" or Not Your Average Tour Guide.
Germany is often the focus of the marketing because the country has more than 300 Indian clubs, where people adopt a tribe or a chief and study the history. Plus, millions of Germans have grown up on the books of Karl May, a German author who wrote a series of stories about an Apache and his white sidekick.
"There is this sort of noble savage image, unfettered by civilization, which they like," Mr. Bronitsky said. "God forbid that anyone should ever discuss that Indians have VCR's and microwaves."
But a thrust of the new interpretative center, which is part of a resort that includes a casino, an 18-hole golf course, a hotel and recreational vehicle park, is to show how Indians of the Columbia Plateau live today.
"We would like to be perceived as dynamic, evolving, healthy people," Ms. Conner said. "That's not exactly what people expect to see when they visit a reservation."
Still, the fact that these Columbia Plateau Indians have lived in roughly the same places for thousands of years is a tourist draw in a country where so many of the human attachments to the land are ephemeral, tribal officials say.
"We pretty much live where we've always lived, and people are fascinated by that," Ms. Conner said. The center tells a story of independent people whose lives were forever changed by the schooners that came over the Oregon Trail. It shows the effect of disease, of boarding schools that disrupted families, and of poverty. And it ends on a hopeful note, with visions of a tribe flourishing.
"People are very moved by it," Ms. Conner said. "We get these notes in the suggestion box: 'I'm sorry for everything we've done to you people.' It awakens a lot of trauma, a lot of fear."
Despite the guilt-swollen effect of some heritage tour sites, tour operators outside the reservation say there is great interest in all things Indian. A record number of people, about 600,000, visited the National Museum of the American Indian in lower Manhattan last year, double the attendance of the year before. And out near the reservations, museums report a similar trend.
At the Museum of the Plains Indian, on the Blackfoot Reservation, near Browning, Mont., nearly half the visitors this year have been from Europe.
A huge majority of the guests at Darrell Norman's village and horse ranch on the Blackfoot Reservation are from Europe. They take pictures of the bison herds that wander around the reservation, ride horses that are descendants of the mustangs brought to the Americas by the Spanish and learn about the culture of Northern Plains tribes.
"They want to know what the Blackfoot are all about," Mr. Norman said. "They want to taste our food. They want to sleep on the ground -- the whole package. They may show up with stereotypical image, but they leave with the sense that we have a very alive culture. We do not have dead arts, dead language."
Ms. Kilian, the Dutch visitor to the Blackfoot, said she had considered going to China on her vacation, but chose the Blackfoot Reservation instead. "Before I came here I heard that they had a dislike for whites," she said. "That is not true. I have felt very welcome."
One problem that concerns the tribes is trying to hold the line between sharing culture and exploitation. The Umatilla, for example, found that many Germans want to stay with Indian families -- but the Indians themselves do not feel like opening their homes. The Blackfoot, who are enjoying a banner year for tourism, are grappling with the same problem.
"There's always been this question," said Ray Montoya, the Blackfoot tribal planning director, "of how far we develop this industry while maintaining a pristine environment and our culture."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some tourists opt to stay in teepees while on vacation at Darrell Norman's ranch near Browning, Mont., on the Blackfoot Indian Reservation. (Liz Hahn for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Marjorie Deen, left, talked with a youth guide, Randall Melton, at the Tamastslikt Cultural Center on the Umatilla Reservations in Oregon. The center is drawing visitors from around the world. (Jeff Green for The New York Times); Darrell Norman, center, a Blackfoot Indian and artist, explained the importance of a buffalo jump site to visitors from Washington, D.C. (Liz Hahn for The New York Times)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); 

STATE: WEST USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (76%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: GREAT PLAINS NATIONAL (56%); TAMASTSLIKT CULTURAL CENTER (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAMASTSLIKT CULTURAL CENTER (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIGFOOT INDIAN RESERVATION (ORE); WESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); WEST USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (76%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: INDIANS, AMERICAN; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS NATIVE AMERICANS (92%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); TOURISM (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); DESERTS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); CRUISES (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); MOUNTAINS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



572 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Report Calls for Higher Education Reform

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
A new report by the State Comptroller criticizes higher education policy making as haphazard and often politically influenced, and calls on the state to establish a higher education coordinating board to replace or supplement the Board of Regents, the panel that is responsible for education planning in the state.
The report by the Comptroller, H. Carl McCall, is particularly critical of the roles that both Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani have played in higher education. It attacks the often political nature of appointments to the boards of New York's public universities and calls for a new system of appointing trustees for the State University of New York and the City University of New York. 
 Representatives of both the Governor and the Mayor, who are Republicans, dismissed the report itself as political in nature. Mr. McCall, a Democrat, is up for re-election in November.
The 44-page report is scheduled for release today and is to be posted on the Internet tomorrow (www.osc. state.ny.us). Although the report does not cite Mayor Giuliani by name, it is both directly and indirectly critical of his involvement in CUNY.
It recommends, for example, that university trustees not be employed by the politicians who appoint them -- a clear slap at the Mayor. Of the five trustees Mr. Giuliani has named to CUNY's board, two are city employees and one is his appointee as president of the United Nations Development Corporation, a quasi-governmental organization. Their independence has become a subject of debate within the board and elsewhere.
The report also discusses the importance of keeping education free from direct political control of the sort the Mayor displayed last spring in shaping a new policy that would bar students who need remedial classes from entering CUNY's senior colleges. "It was very clear," the report says, "that the actions of some trustees were being driven by the explicit direction of outside politicians," including the Mayor.
Finally, the report calls for "broad access to post-secondary education," and refers to concerns that CUNY's new remedial policy could significantly cut new enrollments at the university's senior colleges.
Cristyne F. Lategano, a spokeswoman for the Mayor, said she had not seen the report, but said, "Charges of politics from Carl McCall are pretty ironic," adding that the Mayor typically does not respond to the Comptroller's reports because he considers them political.
The report is generally less critical of Mr. Pataki. But it cites his veto in April of additional aid for community colleges -- and his later reversal of that position -- as an example of the "piecemeal decision making" that Mr. McCall would like to change.
The Governor's office also dismissed the study. "It is clearly a politically partisan report that is designed for political purposes just a few weeks ahead of the election," said Charles H. Deister, a spokesman for the Governor.
Mr. McCall said in an interview on Friday that he recognized that some might view the report as political, but he said he expected that people would focus on its content "rather than on who put it out or when."
"We have a policy vacuum for higher education in this state, with choices made almost exclusively through our dysfunctional budget process," Mr. McCall said, adding that he hoped to "create a dialogue" about the role of the state in planning higher education.
"We are facing a period when the demands of the workplace will require people with a very high degree of skills, and I want to make sure we are preparing our students," he said.
Over all, the report offers a critical snapshot of higher education in a state that spends only $157 per capita on higher education -- 15 percent less than the national average and 41st among all states -- and one where students must pay "significantly more" to attend a public university than students in the rest of the nation.
It charges that although New York spends $3.7 billion a year on higher education, it has cut support for public and private universities "without adequate consideration" of the impact on the state and its economy.
Mr. McCall released a copy of the report to The New York Times last week, as well as to a handful of education experts he consulted in developing it and a few top education officials.
Richard P. Mills, the State Education Commissioner, who was not consulted in advance but received a copy of the report, cheered the Comptroller's effort to focus attention on higher education, even though he disagreed with some of the report's conclusions.
"Is there room for a thoughtful, critical report?" Mr. Mills said. "Certainly. I don't have a quarrel with a paper like this. There are problems in higher education. For me, that is a given."
The report is also critical of the Board of Regents. It says that although the board was intended as an "ambitious higher education governance and planning structure, the system has not worked for some time."
"They are, of necessity, too preoccupied with elementary and secondary education," the report says, adding that none of the board's recent four-year master plans have been acted upon.
Mr. Mills challenged those conclusions, saying the Regents have aggressively carried out a clear plan for improving the state's colleges and universities. Among the actions they have taken, he said, was the removal of trustees at Adelphi University for mismanagement; the setting of stiff new standards for teacher education and certification, and the closing of hundreds of substandard commercially owned trade schools, known as proprietary schools.
At the same time, Mr. Mills said, the Regents see room for improvement in their own approach. "We have a master plan system," he said, "and the Regents do not think it works as effectively as it should and plan to change that."
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK; CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK; BOARD OF REGENTS (NYS) UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK; CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK; BOARD OF REGENTS (NYS) UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (98%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (92%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); VETO (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



573 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: THE SENATOR;
In Upstate Swing, D'Amato Attacks Schumer on His Voting Record

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Sept. 20

 BODY:
In his first major swing of the general election campaign, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato barnstormed across the Republican-friendly reaches of northern New York State today, repeatedly accusing his Democratic opponent, Representative Charles E. Schumer from Brooklyn, of being blithely indifferent to the needs of upstate residents.
The whirlwind six-hour trip brought Mr. D'Amato, a Republican seeking his fourth term, to the state's largest upstate cities -- Albany, Syracuse, Rochester and Buffalo -- and provided a television backdrop for his unusually blunt appeal to the regional resentments that have defined state politics for decades. 
 Echoing the television advertisements that he and the state Republican Party have saturated the airwaves with in recent days, Mr. D'Amato derisively referred to Mr. Schumer as a "Brooklyn liberal" and lambasted him for having once quipped that "the West starts on the other side of the Hudson River." Mr. Schumer's aides said the remark was a joking reference to his friend and former roommate, Senator Richard J. Durbin, a Democrat from Illinois.
"Maybe he thinks that's funny," Mr. D'Amato said at a news conference at Buffalo International Airport this afternoon. "But take a look at his votes. In his votes, he has demonstrated a pattern of not only indifference, not only of negligence, but indeed of outright damage to upstate New York."
Those damaging votes, according to Mr. D'Amato, included Mr. Schumer's support in Congress for reducing price supports for dairy farmers and for increasing Federal gasoline taxes, and in the State Assembly two decades ago for establishing a state property tax. Mr. D'Amato contended that since many Brooklyn residents do not own homes or cars, the taxes Mr. Schumer voted for would have fallen disproportionately on upstate residents.
While Mr. D'Amato was touring upstate, Mr. Schumer took to the steps of City Hall in New York City to criticize Mr. D'Amato's opposition to gun control. Asked about the Senator's criticisms, Mr. Schumer returned to a core theme of his campaign: that Mr. D'Amato has been in office for too long, an attack the Republicans used effectively upstate against Gov. Mario M. Cuomo four years ago.
"I would ask what kinds of concrete things Al D'Amato has done for upstate," Mr. Schumer said. "He's supposed to be the pothole Senator. But upstate New York is one of the three regions in the entire country that has lost jobs. Al D'Amato has been there 18 years. He's utterly failed in helping upstate New York. And people in upstate New York, wherever I go, are looking for a change."
Mr. Schumer's campaign also faxed to reporters information on Mr. D'Amato's record indicating that he had allowed property taxes to rise in the town of Hempstead, on Long Island, during the 1970's, when he was Town Supervisor there, and had voted repeatedly in the Senate to raise Federal taxes.
Though Mr. D'Amato's news conferences were filled mainly with attacks on Mr. Schumer, he did refer to Federal aid that he claimed to have directed to upstate communities, including for airport renovations in Buffalo, a bridge over the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway in Schenectady and improvements at the Albany rail station.
The harsh tone of both candidates' remarks today was in keeping with the negative tenor that has dominated this still-young race and provided new evidence that it is likely to be a bare-knuckles affair down to the wire, much like the 1992 race in which Mr. D'Amato defeated Robert Abrams, then the State Attorney General, by a single percentage point.
Democratic politicians said Mr. D'Amato's upstate strategy indicated that he was concerned about the region's lagging economy and perceived a softening of his support there. "This is what he does when he's in trouble: he tries to divide," said Josh Isay, Mr. Schumer's campaign manager.
But Republicans said Mr. D'Amato was simply playing a classic Republican card, one that might work especially well this year because of President Clinton's problems. Many strategists in both parties say Democratic turnout in places like New York City may be particularly low this year because party stalwarts are demoralized by the continuing inquiry into the President's relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky.
"The intangibles are looking good for D'Amato," said Anthony H. Gioia, a Buffalo businessman and fund-raiser for the Senator. "He's got a popular Governor at the top of the ticket to bring out Republicans and the President's troubles keeping Democrats at home."
Political analysts said Mr. D'Amato's efforts to stoke regional frictions so early was extraordinary. But they said his strategy was not surprising since Mr. D'Amato's chances of re-election depend heavily on overcoming New York City's strongly Democratic vote with heavy Republican support in the north.
They also noted that Mr. D'Amato's fellow Republican, Gov. George E. Pataki, used a similar tactic to great success in the final days of the gubernatorial campaign of 1994, when he played on upstate resentments against the city to undermine Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's stunning endorsement of the Democratic incumbent, Mr. Cuomo.
"This is the culture of New York politics," said John Zogby, a pollster from Utica. "Upstate New York is D'Amato's base. It's important that he mops up there because he'll lose the city, and probably fairly badly."
In 1992, Mr. D'Amato lost by 451,000 votes to Mr. Abrams in New York City. But he was able to squeak out an 80,000-vote victory by soundly defeating Mr. Abrams in the suburbs and routing him in all but three upstate counties.
Mr. D'Amato's campaign swing today also underscored the degree to which this campaign will be played out almost entirely on television. In his few hours upstate, Mr. D'Amato did not venture out to meet voters but instead conducted news conferences attended mainly by local television reporters in airport conference rooms and at departure gates.
Mr. D'Amato is scheduled to continue his upstate campaigning on Monday, visiting Elmira, Binghamton, Niagara Falls and Utica.
Much as he had sought to depict Mr. Abrams as a big-city elitist who was out of touch with the feelings of average small-town residents, Mr. D'Amato tried to portray Mr. Schumer, whose father ran an exterminating business, as an effete, Ivy League-trained snob.
"He should know better," Mr. D'Amato said in Albany, referring to Mr. Schumer's attacks on him. "This is the great Harvard intellect."
Later, the Senator said of Mr. Schumer, "He simply doesn't understand what hard-working families in upstate New York have to go through."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); FIREARMS (66%); GUN CONTROL (66%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); GASOLINE (64%); FUEL TAX (64%); DAIRY FARMING (64%); AGRICULTURE (64%); AIRPORTS (51%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR) CHARLES SCHUMER (92%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



574 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: THE 1998 CAMPAIGN: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Focusing on a Rival's Votes on Taxes

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

 BODY:

This is a 30-second advertisement that Gov. George E. Pataki's campaign began broadcasting Friday. 

PRODUCER -- Chris Mottola
 
ON THE SCREEN -- The ad opens with a picture of the Democratic nominee, Peter F. Vallone, against a background of dollar bills, his name displayed in white letters. When the narrator accuses Mr. Vallone of voting for higher taxes 78 times, the ring of a cash register is heard, and a tab with the legend "Voted 78 Times for Higher Taxes" pops up. This pattern -- cash register ringing, tab popping up -- continues four more times, as the narrator says that Mr. Vallone voted for higher property, commuter and sales taxes. At the end, Mr. Vallone's name and image remain, but the tabs are replaced by the words "Very Taxing."
 
THE SCRIPT -- "Peter Vallone is very liberal with taxpayers' money. He voted 78 times for higher taxes. He voted 20 times for higher income taxes. Vallone voted 18 times to raise property taxes. Peter Vallone voted 14 times to extend the suburban commuter tax and Peter Vallone even voted 20 times for higher sales taxes. Peter Vallone, very taxing."
 
ACCURACY -- Most of the 78 votes cited, some dating to the 1970's, were not tax increases, but extensions of existing taxes. The largest of those, a personal income tax surcharge to pay for more police officers, was enacted in 1991 and extended last year, each time with Mr. Pataki's support, and it was eliminated this year by Mr. Vallone. Some of the taxes cited have since been eliminated. The reference to property taxes is also misleading, referring, in many instances, to the city's annual adjustment of tax rates. In this decade, those adjustments have kept the overall tax burden roughly unchanged, though it has raised the tax assessment on properties whose values have risen sharply. In the eight years since the Council gained some power over the city budget, the city's tax collections have risen more slowly than inflation, and more slowly than the state's.
 
SCORECARD -- Mr. Pataki is relying on the most tried-and-true Republican formula, calling Democrats "liberal" taxers and spenders, which surely has worked in the past. And while the ad does not mention New York City directly, it plays into the belief of many upstate and suburban voters that politicians from the city, like Mr. Vallone, want nothing more than to bleed them dry through taxes. But it is unusual for an incumbent with an enormous lead in the polls to go on the attack first, and so early in the general election campaign. And while Mr. Pataki may simply be trying not to take anything for granted, negative advertising always runs the risk, however slight, of backfiring on the attacker. --
 RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

GRAPHIC: Photo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICAL ADVERTISING; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES TAXES & TAXATION (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); SALES TAX (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LIBERALISM (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); BUDGETS (76%); SUBURBS (76%); INCOME TAX (73%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



575 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Japan Sees Itself as a Scapegoat Of Washington in the Asia Crisis

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Japan is often seen these days as an insouciant bumbler, fiddling while much of the world's economy burns. But Government officials here, grimly plodding the corridors of power, see things rather differently.
As Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi prepares for a summit meeting with President Clinton on Tuesday in Tarrytown, N. Y., some officials here are irritated at what they perceive as American arrogance and scapegoating of Japan. They say that Japan tried several times to grapple with the Asian economic crisis in the early stages, but each time the United States slapped Japan down. 
 When the crisis was in its infancy a year ago, for example, Japan proposed setting up a $100 billion fund to help Southeast Asian countries pull through. The United States swiftly killed the idea, sending a humiliated Japan slinking back to its corner.
Now many economists think that Japan's idea should have been tried, and even the United States sounds humble on that point. "I think we've all learned a lot of lessons over the last year or so," said Stuart E. Eizenstat, Under Secretary of State for economic affairs. "Perhaps with 20-20 hindsight, this was an idea that might have gotten more attention."
Japan was the first major country to pay attention to the crisis unfolding in Thailand in the summer of 1997, and then-Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto tried to get world leaders to discuss the economic instability in Asia at the Denver summit meeting, two weeks before the crisis exploded into the public eye. But no other leader wanted to discuss what then seemed like an obscure topic.
Then just this month, Mr. Obuchi proposed that leaders of the industrialized countries meet to consult on the Russian crisis and global economic risks. Washington killed that idea, too. But a few days ago, as the crisis became more serious, President Clinton summoned finance ministers and central bankers from the same countries to discuss the problems.
Japanese officials are not exactly gnashing their teeth, nor do they want to be hailed as visionaries who saw the crisis coming and tried to galvanize international action.
But they do bridle at the suggestion that they are part of the problem rather than the solution, and that Japan is the culprit in the Asian crisis.
"That is a wrong perception," complained Kaoru Yosano, the Minister for International Trade and Industry. "Sure, Japan has lots of political problems. But Japan has contributed more than any country in the world to the Asian countries hit by the crisis since Thailand, and we intend to continue those contributions."
Mr. Yosano noted that Japan has contributed $43 billion to rescue packages in Asia, compared to $12 billion from the United States and $7 billion from Europe.
"Japan is not paralyzed," he added. "It would be an interesting yarn if it were true, but it's not."
When asked if he was annoyed at repeated American statements urging Japan to do more to address the crisis, Mr. Yosano allowed a smile to flit across his face.
"We're used to it, so we're not frustrated by it," he said. "It's like a church bell ringing at the same time every day, so that after a while you don't notice it. But of course if you say things too many times, then nobody will listen to you any more. So I think it would be more effective to speak less often."
Not everybody in the Japanese Cabinet is quite so patient. Seiichi Ota, the director of the Management and Coordination Agency, complained at a press conference the other day about the impact of international banking standards stipulating the appropriate levels of capital that banks should maintain.
"I wonder if everyone is just accepting this because it is decided by Anglo-Saxons," Mr. Ota fretted. "Everyone, including Japan, bows to these rules, because Anglo-Saxons are powerful in the financial world. But being powerful is not the same as being right."
For all their frustration, Japanese officials still go out of their way to try to pacify American demands. Late last week, for example, leaders of the ruling and opposition parties stayed up all night and worked frantically to cobble together a frail agreement on stabilizing the banking system, all so that Mr. Obuchi would have the deal in place by the time he met Mr. Clinton.
The simmering resentments in Tokyo may grow with the summit meeting, since one of its purposes seems to be to give Mr. Clinton a chance to drum into Mr. Obuchi the importance of rapid action to revive Japan's economy. Mr. Clinton said a few days ago that in terms of resolving the global financial crisis, "the key here is Japan," and he added: "It is difficult to see how any actions of the world community can be successful in restoring growth in Asia in the absence of the restoration of growth in Japan."
Yuji Tsushima, a prominent member of Parliament for the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, warned that if Americans continue to complain about Japan, then there could be a serious backlash. "If American policy-makers continue to criticize us or push too hard, a sentiment might develop here similar to that in Malaysia," Mr. Tsushima said, referring to the strong strain of anti-Western opinion in Malaysia. "That's what we have to avoid."
American officials respond that while they would prefer not to give offense, the world is at an extremely delicate juncture and requires dramatic action from Japan to stimulate its economy.
"The United States feels quite acutely that Japan must bear its share of responsibility for mitigating as much as possible the Asian crisis," said Charlene Barshefsky, the United States Trade Representative, who was in Japan last week. Ms. Barshefsky said that Mr. Clinton and Mr. Obuchi would speak "in an unusually forthright manner for a first-time meeting."
"We can express perhaps exasperation, but it's up to Japan to take the measures," she added. "The President will certainly make clear that Japan must act."
There has been some disagreement in the Administration about how harsh to be with Japan, and the result is an inconsistency in tone. Ms. Barshefsky and Treasury Department officials have been unrelentingly tough, while State Department officials have soothingly offered advice rather than making demands.
Some American officials say that one reason why Washington has often made tough statements is the feeling that pressure to the point of rudeness is the only mechanism that has ever worked in Japan. "I think it's demonstrably the case that external pressure tends to help more than it hurts," Ms. Barshefsky said.
Early last year, for example, the United States politely urged Japan not to raise its national consumption tax. Japan raised it anyway, and fell into its worst recession in half a century -- threatening the global economy.
Likewise, even after falling into recession, Japan felt much less urgency than other countries. Tokyo delayed action on measures to stimulate the economy and tackle its bad debt, and the frustration in Washington grew so acute that some Treasury officials dubbed Japan's Finance Minister the "minister for the destruction of the world economy."
Such sarcasm is particularly painful for Japanese officials, who try hard to build good relationships with their American counterparts.
"Japanese officials are really interested, almost obsessed, with the reaction of Americans, and so these days they are very resentful because the reaction is bad," said Yasuaki Onuma, a law professor at Tokyo University. But he added that fundamentally the blame should lie with the Japanese officials because, he said, they are invariably disastrous at public relations and thus never get credit even when they manage to do things right.
One reason why Japanese proposals for summit meetings or other global measures have not been taken seriously is that the Japanese Government has almost no credibility abroad. It has insisted for so long that its economic problems are under control that the assumption whenever a Japanese Prime Minister speaks out on global issues is that he is simply trying to divert attention from problems at home.
The distress of Japanese officials at being blamed for the global crisis comes on top of the distress at seeing the once-great Japanese economy steadily lose strength. The Japanese stock market is at a 12-year low, and Japan's banks are now not just the world's biggest but also among the world's shakiest.
A headline this week on a column in the Asahi Shimbun, perhaps Japan's most respected newspaper, grimly described the despair at Japan's economic morass: "The Feeling of Losing a Second War."
In the Japanese public at large, the measure of resentment at perceived American arrogance has been no greater lately than usual. One reason may be that the public is focusing its indignation on its own leaders.
Indeed, Mr. Obuchi can make Mr. Clinton look comparatively strong politically. A poll this week for the Asahi Shimbun found only 21 percent of the public supported Mr. Obuchi's Government, and even members of his own party are jockeying to succeed him.
"Right now, most of the public frustration isn't with foreigners," said Charles Y. Horioka, an economist at Osaka University, "but with the Japanese Government and its difficulties in getting things done."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (98%); ASIA (96%); THAILAND (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; THAILAND; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (98%); ASIA (96%); THAILAND (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); TRENDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); CENTRAL BANKS (50%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); OBUCHI, KEIZO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (88%); KAORU YOSANO (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



576 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: As Russia Teeters, the Rest of Us Should Worry

 BODY:

To the Editor:
President Boris N. Yeltsin of Russia should disavow the new Prime Minister, Yevgeny M. Primakov, and the new cabinet being imposed on him by the Communist-dominated opposition (news article, Sept. 18). The plan to print rubles to pay for accrued wages and pensions can only result in hyperinflation, which will lead to greater social distress and protests. The election of a new Parliament is scheduled for December 1999. By that time, the devastating effects of skyrocketing prices and unpredictable shortages will be evident. 
 If President Yeltsin publicly opposes deficit financing, the lines may be drawn clearly enough in December 1999 for voters to support a Parliament composed of deputies who will support the agrarian reforms, tax restructuring and parliamentary approval of long-term mineral production agreements (production-sharing) that the Communist opposition has blocked for the last five years.
 
JONATHAN RUSSIN
Washington, Sept. 18, 1998
 
The writer is an international lawyer based in Moscow.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); BUDGETS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MINERAL LEASES (51%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (51%); 

PERSON: RUSSIN, JONATHAN; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BORIS N YELTSIN (85%); YEVGENY M PRIMAKOV (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



577 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: As Russia Teeters, the Rest of Us Should Worry

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Joseph Stiglitz (Op-Ed, Sept. 16) would have us believe that Brazil and other South American countries have been tainted undeservedly by economic turmoil in Russia -- victims of an "irrational panic." This is not completely true. 
 While the region's afflictions are indeed different from those on the other side of the world, they are ills nonetheless: a current account deficit of 5 percent of gross domestic product, overvalued exchange rates, excessive interest rates, profligate fiscal spending, low tax collection and weak banking institutions.
Latin America has made great progress, as Mr. Stiglitz notes, in undertaking neoliberal economic reform. However, the job is half-done; the region must complete the task to speed recovery and insure sustainable growth.
 
JERRY HAAR
Miami, Sept. 17, 1998
 
The writer is senior research associate, North-South Center, University of Miami.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI (55%); NORTH-SOUTH CENTER (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI (55%); NORTH-SOUTH CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; LATIN AMERICA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); EXCHANGE RATES (68%); TRENDS (65%); 

PERSON: HAAR, JERRY; STIGLITZ, JOSEPH JOSEPH STIGLITZ (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



578 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Compressed Data;
What's in a Web Name? Sometimes, Mistaken Identity

BYLINE: By PETER WAYNER 

 BODY:
Jeff Woods, the owner of an Internet service provider to Raleigh and Durham, N.C., has discovered that using an address, or domain name, that people associate with a well-known company may not be worth the free publicity that comes with mistaken identity. He owns delta.com, a domain name he chose in 1993 for his company, Deltacomm Internet Services.
Trouble is, nearly everyone who comes to his Web site (www.delta.com) is really looking for the site of Delta Air Lines -- sometimes as many as 10,000 people a day. Over the years, as traffic on the World Wide Web has meant more and more mistakes, Mr. Woods has tried to sell the address to Delta Air Lines. But the airline, which does business on the Web as www.delta-air.com, has repeatedly rejected his asking price as too high. 
 Mr. Woods said he had lowered the price, to a "five-figure amount," which he contends will barely cover the cost of reprinting brochures and manuals and changing his customers' E-mail addresses to a new domain. Because he pays another Internet company to carry his Web site's traffic, Mr. Woods says, he is incurring extra costs to redirect Delta's traffic. And he says he gets no extra advertising value from most of the people who visit in search of the airline because his business serves only customers in the Raleigh-Durham area.
Delta Air Lines disputes Mr. Woods's economics. "His asking price is much higher than his cost to migrate his customers," a spokesman, Kip Smith, said. "We don't feel that Delta should subsidize his business interests." And besides, Mr. Smith said, Delta Air Lines has a recognized Web address that has been in place since December 1995. "We're really not interested in pursuing it, although we are always open to discussion," he said.
Evidently. The airline recently acquired another Web site name, www.deltaairlines.com from Dennis Toeppen, a speculator in Internet names, who had originally registered it along with 100 or so other corporate names. Delta would not comment on the terms of that deal.
After one conversation with Delta that did not go to his liking, Mr. Woods removed all links to Delta Air Lines' official site. But he soon received so many complaints that he restored the link.
To goad Delta, he also stuck in a link to its main rival, American Airlines, with a free testimonial that reads, "If you're looking for an airline, try American Airlines, the frequent-flier airline the owners and staff of Deltacomm Internet Services flew 100,000 miles on in 1997." PETER WAYNER

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Internet access service, not an airline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); 

CITY: DURHAM, NC, USA (88%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC; DELTA AIR LINES INC DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES INC; DELTA AIR LINES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); DURHAM, NC, USA (88%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL INTERNET & WWW (92%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (91%); DOMAIN NAMES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); 

PERSON: WOODS, JEFF; WAYNER, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



579 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Family Feud Touches Down in Newburgh

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN 

DATELINE: NEW WINDSOR, N.Y., Sept. 20

 BODY:
One after another, the cars pulled up to the chain-link fence at Stewart International Airport. One after another, curiosity seekers squinted through the fence at the turf-green-and-white Airbus A300 wide-body jet sitting on the tarmac, silent and still except for the fabric covers on its engines flapping in the breeze.
"The Feds were checking it out last week, and customs," said a man in a red car who would not give his name because he works at the airport. "We thought they were going to fly it out of here, but then they came and wrapped it all up." 
 The object of all this intrigue is an $80 million aircraft apparently frozen in a growing financial feud between Prince Jefri Bolkiah of Brunei and his older brother, the Sultan, the second-richest man in the world after Bill Gates.
The ownership of the plane itself is in dispute. What is agreed is that the plane landed at this airport near Newburgh, 70 miles north of New York City, in Prince Jefri's care on Aug. 7. Sometime after that, Federal officials say, the prince's big brother essentially took away the keys.
"The State Department told us that the plane had been taken out of Brunei without permission," said Andrew Zarutskie, the press secretary to Representative Benjamin A. Gilman, Republican of Greenville, whose district includes part of the airport and who is chairman of the House International Relations Committee. "They said the Government of Brunei had asked the Government of the United States as a courtesy not to let the plane take off."
Representatives of the State Department, the Federal Aviation Administration and the United States Customs Service did not return calls today seeking comment.
An associate of the prince's in London, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that the jet belonged to the prince, who he said was in self-imposed exile in New York City, and that he could move it any time he wanted to. But an operations supervisor at the airport -- who also spoke on the condition of anonymity -- confirmed that the plane had been grounded. And today it was being watched by a man who said he had been hired by Alliance Private Investigations, a company in nearby Goshen, and who was taking notes on anyone who looked at the plane.
"My job is to notify the boss if anybody starts taking the plane, if anybody tries moving it," said the man, who would give neither his name nor the name of his client.
The operations supervisor said that dignitaries visiting New York frequently parked their planes at Stewart, both because its storage fees are relatively low -- $600 a day for an A300 cannot seem like much to a man whose family is worth at least $35 billion -- and because it provides a low profile.
For several months, as plummeting world oil prices have strained Brunei's oil-based economy, tensions have grown between Prince Jefri, who is accused of squandering huge sums on luxury hotels and a lavish life style, and the rest of his family.
The Sultan, Hassanal Bolkiah, recently removed his 44-year-old brother as head of the state investment agency and a private company, Amedeo, amid reports of losses that some analysts said could amount to billions of dollars. Prince Jefri is fighting efforts to strip him of those and other assets.
The royal family has also been stung by charges by a former Miss U.S.A., Shannon Marketic, that the prince and the Sultan flew her to Brunei with the promise of a diplomatic job but tried instead to turn her into a sex slave.
All of which helps explain why Dominick DiGioia, a retired Army chief warrant officer, brought his family out from Newburgh to look at the plane after reading an article about it in The Times Herald Record of Middletown. "It's beautiful," Mr. DiGioia said. "I think it could seat quite a few women. And all those windows" -- there were 41 on each side of the 177-foot-long plane -- "have got curtains on them."
His daughter, Cindy DiGioia, a manager at a Caldor department store, was less impressed. "It's no different than Air Force One," she said. "It's just a green plane."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An ownership dispute has left an Airbus A300 jet from Brunei parked at Stewart International Airport near Newburgh, N.Y., since Aug. 7. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); 

COUNTRY: BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (58%); STATE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUNEI; BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; STEWART INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (NEWBURGH, NY) AIRPORTS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FAMILY (84%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRLINES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, ANDY; BOLKIAH, JEFRI (PRINCE); BOLKIAH, HASSANAL (SULTAN OF BRUNEI) BILL GATES (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



580 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 5; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: Television in Review

BYLINE: By RON WERTHEIMER 

 BODY:

'The King of Queens'
CBS, tonight at 8:30
(Channel 2 in New York)
 Jerry Stiller could be funny bellowing excerpts from the telephone book. Too bad he doesn't get material that clever on "The King of Queens." He is saddled with lines like "I got two words for you: I'm stayin' right here." 
 Mr. Stiller, in full Frank Costanza mode, is Arthur, the dotty father-in-law who moves in with not-too-bright Doug Heffernan (Kevin James) and Doug's a-little-too-bright wife, Carrie (Leah Remini). Carrie's kooky sister, Sara (Lisa Rieffel), an unemployed actress, moves in, too, and now Doug and Carrie's comfy little home has become crowded.
The performers are pleasant enough, and Ms. Remini almost gives Carrie some zing. But they can't overcome the stale setup. As for the title, there is no obvious connection to Queens, for which residents of the borough can be thankful. RON WERTHEIMER

GRAPHIC: Photo: Leah Remini and Kevin James, in a new comedy, "The King of Queens," play a couple who have in-laws moving in with them. (Byron J. Cohen/CBS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: KING OF QUEENS, THE (TV PROGRAM)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (72%); 

PERSON: WERTHEIMER, RON JERRY STILLER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



581 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: THE TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: FOREIGN POLICY;
Troubled Nations May Look at Clinton at the U.N. and See... Trouble

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
If President Clinton wants a sense of how dangerous a place the world has become in the midst of a scandal over his personal conduct, he could study the grim faces in the audience when he rises on Monday at the green marble podium of the United Nations General Assembly in New York.
There will be the leaders of Asian nations that are being convulsed by the most severe economic crisis since World War II, and delegates from Russia, which is facing its own economic and political meltdown. 
 There will be diplomats from the nations surrounding Kosovo, where a war is raging in the heart of Europe and where tens of thousands of refugees are in danger of freezing to death; from India and Pakistan, which now face off across their common border with nuclear-tipped missiles, and from Israel and the Palestinian Authority, which are still far from the peace agreement that the United States had hoped to broker.
And to the dismay of many in the United Nations, one face will not be in the crowd of diplomats at the General Assembly, that of an American ambassador. The nomination of Mr. Clinton's choice for the post, Richard C. Holbrooke, has been sidetracked until at least early next year by a Justice Department inquiry.
Many on Capitol Hill say that because of the scandal resulting from his relationship with a White House intern, Mr. Clinton lacks the political capital to move Mr. Holbrooke's nomination any faster -- or for that matter, to champion any significant initiative on foreign policy that requires Congressional approval.
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. of Delaware, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said that American foreign policy was being "sidetracked" as a result of the President's problems.
"Foreign leaders who know about the President's difficulties, who know about the attitude and partisanship of the Congress, are wondering whether this is a President who can deliver," he said in an interview. "I think in a sense, foreign policy has been paralyzed."
It is a view stated even more forcefully by Republicans. Senator Chuck Hagel, a Nebraska Republican who is a fellow member of the Foreign Relations Committee, returned last month from a trip to the Middle East, where he met with government leaders in Israel, Egypt, Syria, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon.
"And every one of those leaders told me that as a result of the President's problems, his motives when he acts in foreign policy will be called into question," Mr. Hagel said.
"The coin of the realm in foreign policy is trust, and when you are not trusted, you cannot lead," he said. "If foreign leaders don't believe that the American people and the Congress trust our President, the next question for them is: Why should we?"
No one in Congress has been heard to blame the sex-and-lies scandal for last week's vote in the House to rebuff the Administration and provide only $3.4 billion in new credits to the International Monetary Fund, a fraction of what the Administration has said is necessary for the fund to deal with a global financial crisis. But it certainly did not help.
"It is almost impossible now for President Clinton to pick up the phone and ask a favor from a member of Congress on a tricky matter of foreign policy," said a senior American diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity. "If there is any lingering good will in Congress, he'll want to cash that in to prevent his impeachment."
Senior Clinton Administration officials say that the President remains fully engaged in the conduct of foreign policy. They say that he may even be more interested in the details of foreign policy since it provides him with a welcome diversion from his troubles in Washington.
Last week, the President directed White House meetings on the crisis in the Serbian province of Kosovo, where the United States is threatening to use air strikes to end a Serb onslaught against the ethnic Albanians who make up a majority of the population there, and over the standoff with Iraq for its refusal to let United Nations weapons inspectors there to do their work.
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and Defense Secretary William S. Cohen have expressed confidence in the President.
Ms. Albright's spokesman, James P. Rubin, said: "Secretary Albright has made clear that she has never had a problem in recent months or years in getting the President on the phone when she needs him and doing the work that she needs to do when it needs to be done. She has expressed her strong confidence in the President's leadership and his ability to make sound judgments."
Mr. Cohen, the sole Republican in the Cabinet, said at the Pentagon last week that Mr. Clinton "continues to be effective in dealing with national security and foreign policy issues, and as long as he's able to do that, then he will have the support, I think, of the American people."
But while the evidence suggests that the President remains fully engaged in debates within the Administration over foreign policy, his aides say they are dismayed that almost any decisive action taken by Mr. Clinton is now being viewed in Washington and around the world through the prism of the scandal.
That became alarmingly clear, they said, when the President decided to bomb Afghanistan and the Sudan on Aug. 20 in retaliation for terrorist attacks on American embassies in East Africa.
Within hours, members of Congress were publicly questioning whether the air strikes were simply an attempt to divert public attention from the furor over his acknowledgment to a Federal grand jury of his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky.
In an age of satellite television and the Internet, the news of the President's sexual misadventures -- and the cynicism over his motives in conducting foreign policy in light of the scandal -- spread to virtually every corner of the globe in a matter of seconds.
In the Sudanese capital of Khartoum, anti-American demonstrators took to the streets the day after the bombings carrying signs that bore cartoons depicting Ms. Lewinsky. Other protesters carried signs with the words "Wag the Dog," a reference to the recent Hollywood comedy about a President who launches a war in Albania to divert attention from allegations that he molested a girl scout.
Mr. Biden said he feared that every critical foreign policy action taken by the Administration would now be viewed with the same skepticism, and that it could hinder decision-making as the White House pondered whether to launch military strikes in Kosovo and against the Iraqis.
"When it comes time to pull the trigger, the White House will have to think and expect that every serious observer in the country, as well as every wacko, is going ask: O.K., is this 'Wag the Dog'?" he said.
Senator Hagel said he did not see how President Clinton could ever again reassure foreign leaders that his decisions were not being influenced by the scandal. "The fact is that when you've lost that confidence, you've lost it forever," he said.
American diplomats abroad say the scandal has begun to color the way the United States and its leaders are being perceived abroad, particularly among nations considered adversaries of the United States.
Muslim clerics in Iran, where the name of Ms. Lewinsky is becoming nearly as well known as that of the President, have cited the scandal as proof of the decadence of the United States.
A senior American diplomat, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that intelligence reports showed that leaders of unfriendly nations as far-flung as Libya, Cuba and Myanmar had obtained copies of the full report to Congress by the Whitewater independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, from the Internet.
"I suspect that it is being translated into 100 different languages for 100 different governments, and every foreign leader will be reading it with the same idea in mind," he said. "They see the President as tarnished, probably irretrievably, and they're wondering how they can capitalize on it."
 
 
 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 1998, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the United States' relationship with the United Nations referred incorrectly to the nomination of Richard C. Holbrooke as the United States' chief representative. The Clinton Administration has not submitted nomination papers to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; the process is being delayed while the State Department and the Justice Department investigate Mr. Holbrooke's financial disclosure forms and his contacts with State Department employees after he left the department two years ago. The nomination is not being blocked by Republicans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (92%); ASIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); KOSOVO (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (92%); ASIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); KOSOVO (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); SYRIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ETHICS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (87%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ETHICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); REFUGEES (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); APPROVALS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SHENON, PHILIP; LEWINSKY, MONICA S; STARR, KENNETH W BILL CLINTON (92%); CHUCK HAGEL (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



582 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: Schroder the Invulnerable? Look at His Record

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: HANOVER, Germany, Sept. 18

 BODY:
He went to the opera in Vienna with the chairman of Volkswagen. He took a spin on the Boeing yacht in Seattle last year. He has visited with Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft.
If Gerhard Schroder has tried to communicate anything during his long quest to unseat Chancellor Helmut Kohl, it is that he is worldly and modern. A Social Democrat who started out as a Marxist student leader, he now talks easily about working with both business and labor to tackle Germany's high unemployment and prepare for the future. 
 But with elections just one week away, Mr. Schroder's past is coming back to haunt him. As the Premier of Lower Saxony since 1990, he presides over a state with nearly 11 percent unemployment -- one of the highest rates in western Germany. The state's budget is a shambles, groaning under a mountain of debt. Job-training, school budgets and community programs have been cut back, and bigger cuts are likely next year.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Kohl and his Christian Democratic Union, steadily gaining in national polls, have begun to hammer at Mr. Schroder's problems at home. The issue was a major theme in the Sept. 12 state elections in Bavaria, where the Social Democrats suffered a major setback by receiving only 28.7 percent of the vote. Mr. Schroder continues to lead Mr. Kohl in national polls by two or three percentage points, but many voters are still undecided.
Opponents charge that Mr. Schroder is all show and no substance, a person who thrives on dramatic gestures but whose state nevertheless lags behind in key respects.
"He loves to be the trouble-shooter, to jump into situations where he can rescue a factory from being shut down," said Fritz Muller, a senior economic adviser to Christian Democrats in the state parliament. "The problem is, he doesn't have any fundamental economic policy."
Mr. Schroder has shown a knack for bailing out troubled local factories. Brushing aside objections from environmentalists, his government has spent hundreds of millions of marks to deepen a small river so that a family-owned shipbuilder could build luxury liners and deliver them to the Baltic Sea.
When Preussag AG wanted to sell its steel mill in March to an Austrian company, Mr. Schroder's government bought the factory for about $600 million and then quickly listed it on the stock exchange. It has also propped up the Continental Tire company based in Lower Saxony and taken over an airplane maintenance center that Daimler-Benz wanted to shut down.
Mr. Schroder and his supporters say such actions show their resourcefulness as the state's old manufacturing industries struggle with global competition.
"The question is not how we compare with other states today, but whether things look better now than they did when we came into power," said Alfred Tacke, Mr. Schroder's state secretary for economics. "We think there has been progress."
But government statistics show that Lower Saxony has grown more slowly than most other western German states for the last several years -- and more slowly than several eastern German ones. While industrial growth has roared ahead in states like Bavaria, Germany's wealthiest, it barely limps along here. And while Mr. Schroder talks about creating 100,000 more job-training positions and investing in technology, his own state has invested much less than many others.
Mr. Schroder's record here provides a vivid insight into his personality and his style of governing. The picture that emerges is of a relentlessly pragmatic leader who thrives on protecting jobs but is bored by economics.
"I have a lot of sympathy for him," said Gernod Preuss, president of Lower Saxony's association of employers, who has known Mr. Schroder for two decades. "He has learned a lot about business, and he has consistently said that the state can only be successful if the economy is successful."
He relishes his role as a member of Volkswagen's supervisory board, a position he holds because the government of Lower Saxony owns 20 percent of the company. When Volkswagen was in danger of bankruptcy in 1993, he strongly supported brutal cost-reduction measures that raised howls of protest from suppliers.
But Mr. Schroder gets much poorer grades as a thinker. Executives and many local government officials complain that he was sloppy about finances when the state was booming in the early 1990's and then caught by surprise when the economy slowed to a crawl. And they were infuriated this year when Mr. Schroder unilaterally vetoed Preussag's decision to sell its steel mill and had the state take it over instead.
Today, Mr. Schroder's budget problems are among the most acute of any state in western Germany, and his lieutenants have been scrambling to keep them from damaging his campaign for Chancellor. The state's total debt has ballooned from 37 billion marks in 1989 (then about $23 billion) to more than 62 billion marks (about $34 billion) last year. The debt here has grown faster than in any other state in western Germany.
Last November, the state supreme court ruled for the second time that Lower Saxony's budget deficit violates legal limits. Local governments, meanwhile, have sued the state, maintaining that it shortchanged them by about $300 million a year.
Opposition leaders now contend that Mr. Schroder faces a shortfall of nearly $3 billion in the two-year state budget for 1999 and 2000, and they are asking a court to force him to disclose his budget before the elections. Mr. Schroder's lieutenants have said they will not even show their draft to the parliament until just before Christmas.
The financial straits have cut seriously into social programs. Local school districts have all but stopped hiring new teachers, and one town on the northern coast went so far as to use its own money to do so. The University of Hanover has been forced to increase the size of classes, delay renovations and lay off clerical workers. At a community counseling program in Hanover for battered women, workers have gone without pay since the government cut off money several months ago.
Lower Saxony's level of joblessness, at 10.7 percent, is markedly higher than the western German average of 9.1 percent. Its level of youth unemployment, at 13.9 percent, is the highest of any western state.
Yet because the state's budget has been so cramped, Mr. Schroder's government has spent far less than other states on training programs and investment in new industries.
Lower Saxony has privatize about $1 billion worth of state-owned companies, but it has used almost all that money either to make interest payments on its debt or support entitlement programs. Defenders of Mr. Schroder say he has had to wrestle with long-term problems that were evident before he came to power. Lower Saxony's industry was dominated by old-line manufacturing companies that have been battered by global competition since the 1980's. Volkswagen, the state's biggest company and the anchor for an extensive industry of parts suppliers, came perilously close to bankruptcy in 1993 before it put itself through brutal cost reductions.
"You can't blame Schroder for everything," said Wilfried Prewo, president of Hanover's chamber of commerce and industry. "Unemployment was high before he came to power. He started out with a pile of debt."
But Mr. Prewo did say that Mr. Schroder had made mistakes. When Mr. Schroder was elected Premier in 1990, Lower Saxony was in the midst of a boom resulting from the re-unification of Germany. Because the state lies right on the old eastern border, its companies sold vast amounts of equipment and services when the Bonn Government pumped hundreds of billions of dollars into rebuilding the east.
But instead of using the good years to shore up the state's finances or invest in new industries, it embarked on new entitlement programs such as giving free school materials to every child in the state. When the economy in eastern Germany went into a deep slump around 1995, Mr. Schroder was left with billions of dollars in additional debt.
"His miscalculation was that the growth would go on forever," said Mr. Prewo. "He didn't invest his surpluses, but rather consumed them on long-term commitments."
But even his critics acknowledge that Mr. Schroder has an unorthodox cleverness, which he showed after acquiring Preussag's steel mill in February.
The move outraged free-market purists and many business leaders. But then Mr. Schroder took advantage of what was still a booming stock market and listed the company on the stock exchange in June. The government sold most of its stake for a cash profit of about $25 million, and still owns shares worth several hundred million dollars.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 1998, Tuesday
PUB-DATE: September 24, 1998

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about Gerhard Schroder, the challenger to Chancellor Helmut Kohl in the German national election, misstated the date of the recent state election in Bavaria. It was Sept. 13, not Sept. 12.
An article on Monday about Gerhard Schroder, the challenger to Chancellor Helmut Kohl in Germany's national election, misidentified the sea to which a shipbuilder in Mr. Schroder's state delivers luxury liners. It is the North Sea, not the Baltic.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gerhard Schroder, fist in air, and his shadow economics minister, Jost Stollmann, in Hanover yesterday. (Reuters)
 
Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Running on a Mixed Record"
Gerhard Schroder's record as the Premier of Lower Saxony is haunting him in his bid for Chancellor of Germany. Unemployment remained well above the average in western Germany during his tenure, which began in 1990, and state debt continued to mount. Graph tracks unemployment rate in Lower Saxony and in Western Germany, from 1990 through August 1998. It also tracls the Lower Saxony Government debt, from 1990 through 1996. (Sources: Federal Labor Office; Lower Saxony Finance Ministry)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (63%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (63%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (52%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TUI AG (63%); PREUSSAG AG (63%); BOEING CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (55%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (55%); CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; ; GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); LOWER SAXONY, GERMANY (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (52%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); POLITICS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (60%); TIRES (60%); STOCK EXCHANGES (60%); SHIPBUILDING (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; SCHROEDER, GERHARD; KOHL, HELMUT (CHANCELLOR) GERHARD SCHRODER (94%); BILL GATES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1998



583 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 2345 words

HEADLINE: HIGH NOTES AND LOW: A special report.;
A Jazz Success Story With a Tinge of the Blues: At Lincoln Center, Defining the Canon Draws Fire

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME 

 BODY:
The scene at the Supper Club on West 47th Street seemed to evoke the glory days of jazz -- an ebullient swing band playing classic Ellington tunes as dancers in period costumes rocketed around the dance floor.
But rather than a throwback to the past, the filming for a PBS special was a snapshot of the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra as one of the great cultural success stories in New York. In just a decade Jazz at Lincoln Center has become the flagship jazz organization in the United States. Led by Wynton Marsalis, the most celebrated jazz musician of his time, it is scheduled to move to the kind of coveted location that comes along only once every few decades. 
 Nothing has highlighted the growth of Jazz at Lincoln Center, a constituent of the center for only two years, as much as the announcement in July that the redevelopment plans for Columbus Circle will include an 1,100-seat concert hall and complex of offices and rehearsal rooms for the program. The concert hall is billed as the first to be acoustically designed for jazz.
But the growth of Jazz at Lincoln Center, whose new season is in full swing, is also a reminder of the program's ambitious agenda and its contentious place in the jazz world.
Jazz at Lincoln Center is not just about making music. It is also, very consciously, about making choices, about defining the canon of an art form that is less than a century old. That goal has almost inevitably brought controversy and with it a question at the heart of the program's mission: Does it exist mostly to celebrate jazz's past or should it be helping to shape its future as well?
By almost any conventional measure, Jazz at Lincoln Center has been an astounding success. The program's budget has grown in three years from $3 million to $9 million, and this year it will present nearly 400 concerts, lectures, classes and workshops in New York and around the world. Most concerts play to sold-out houses. Last year Mr. Marsalis became the first jazz artist to win a Pulitzer Prize for music. On Friday he played and spoke in a program at the White House. Officials are confident they will be able to raise the $65 million it will take to build their new home.
"They've done a marvelous job, and incorporating jazz on an equal basis at Lincoln Center is very important," said Dan Morgenstern, director of the Institute of Jazz Studies at Rutgers University. "Jazz has never had a space like the one at Columbus Circle. It's quite wonderful what they're doing."
But in the jazz world, which often is as factionalized as a lost Trotskyist tribe, the reviews are more mixed.
At the heart of many criticisms is the sense that Jazz at Lincoln Center is using its bully pulpit to foster a cautious, unadventurous view of what jazz is. Given Mr. Marsalis' celebrity and commercial success, its programming is having an effect beyond Lincoln Center to help determine what kind of jazz and jazz musicians are recorded and promoted.
Some critics and musicians say that the program's commissions have too often gone to Mr. Marsalis, that he has used his influence to polarize the jazz world and that the program has slighted white artists at the expense of a pointedly Afrocentric view of jazz's history and traditions.
Most pervasive is the criticism that Lincoln Center is purveying a cautious, static and dated approach to jazz.
"They've done a lot to take the essence of jazz and distort it; they've put a damper on the main ingredient of jazz, which is innovation," said George Russell, a much-admired jazz composer and pianist who has been an important figure in jazz since working with Dizzy Gillespie in the 1940's. "I think whatever happens at Lincoln Center, history will have to correct it, because it does need correcting terribly."
Rather than just a window onto Jazz at Lincoln Center, the disputes are highlighting two vexing issues in jazz overall.
The first is the generational flip-flop in which most of the innovators are in their 40's, 50's and 60's, while the most conspicuous younger musicians, modeled after Mr. Marsalis, are viewed as polished, cautious traditionalists.
The second is the ill-defined cultural status of jazz, with some skeptics questioning whether it belongs at Lincoln Center and others questioning whether it will inevitably be watered down because it is there.
Mr. Marsalis said the criticisms, which have played out in the jazz press almost since the program began, are old issues recycled too many times.
"Ellington faced this; Coltrane had to defend himself in writing," he said. "There's always some side story that becomes the issue instead of the music. And my whole thing is, What about the music?"
The writer Stanley Crouch -- who along with Mr. Marsalis, Rob Gibson, who is Jazz at Lincoln Center's executive producer and director, and the author Albert Murray has helped define the program's approach -- says the criticisms reflect envy more than substance.
"If you've got a classic Rolls driving by on a hot day and a guy standing in the sun waiting for a bus, that guy is going to have one of two reactions," Mr. Crouch said. "Either the Rolls is no good or he should be driving it. Most of the criticisms come down to either 'I'm not being hired there,' or 'My ideas are not being adopted.' "
 
After Just 11 Years, An Equal Partner
Beginning with a three-concert jazz program in 1987, Jazz at Lincoln Center became a department, dependent on Lincoln Center for money in 1991, and in 1996 became the 12th independent constituent on an equal footing -- if not with equal resources -- with powers like the New York Philharmonic.
"We've had astounding growth, and it's the result of the incredible power of this music," said Gordon Davis, the program's chairman, a former city parks commissioner and now a powerful real estate attorney. "We're all riding a mission here because we're involved in something we believe is profoundly important, which is this music, in this country at this time."
The mission translates to acclaimed education programs, particularly those taught by Mr. Marsalis. And the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra has the most extensive touring schedule at Lincoln Center, with 90 cities on five continents this year.
The program's mission also consciously extends to trying to define what jazz is. Mr. Marsalis and Mr. Gibson argue that just as European music has an established canon of essential music, jazz too needs to establish its own canon, with Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Charlie Parker and others as its version of Bach, Mozart and Beethoven.
Many jazz fans, particularly those in the large group more likely to hear jazz at a concert hall than a downtown club, find it hard to fathom what could be wrong with a vibrant jazz presence at the leading American performing arts complex.
"Anyone doing as much as they're doing to promote the appreciation and respect and love of the music is doing the right thing," said Richard Cohen, a creative director at a Manhattan advertising agency.
But in the jazz world the picture is far more mixed.
"What they do there sounds so old," said Sonny Fortune, a saxophonist who has played with Miles Davis and many others. "I want to get excited by music, but a lot of what they do there, you can go to sleep on it. I don't know if I'd say absolutely that what they do is bad for jazz, but surely, absolutely I wouldn't see it as good."
Similarly, many musicians scoff at the notion that it is the role of Lincoln Center to establish a canon for jazz, saying such a canon evolves naturally and that Lincoln Center's version is pallid and limited.
Others say Lincoln Center's institutional heft and commercial muscle has distorted the economics of the jazz business.
 
Other Musicians Find Less Work
Marty Khan, whose company, Outward Visions, has represented jazz artists and promoted jazz concerts and events for more then two decades, said that when he started out, colleges and arts groups used to program 4 to 12 jazz events a year, paying $4,500 to $7,500. Now many just do a few dates, usually including one by Mr. Marsalis or the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra at several times that cost. This results in less work for other artists and audiences weaned on classical, mainstream jazz rather than more adventurous fare.
Greg Osby, a saxophonist who has moved between mainstream jazz and more progressive jazz, said the passions about Lincoln Center's direction have cooled since they were the talk of jazz a few years back, partly because not many musicians outside what he described as "a select few people who pander to a certain taste and ideology" now expect to play there.
"There's plenty of resentment, but everyone has come to the conclusion that no matter who gripes, it's not going to change anything," he said.
He added that most artists realized that Lincoln Center did not represent all of jazz, just one facet of it, and that venues more partial to experimentation could flourish at the same time. Still, he said, given its visibility and resources, many musicians wish Jazz at Lincoln Center had a broader vision.
"Jazz is a living art form that feeds on contemporary trends, steps across fences, borrows from alien sources and brings them back in a new way," he said. "You have people doing incredible things today, but they never get a chance to play at Lincoln Center because they seem to think jazz stopped in 1967."
 
In a Black Forte, Race Is an Issue
And, in a field where racial issues, including questions about whether whites can play jazz, have been tossed around for decades, it's not surprising that some white musicians and critics say Lincoln Center in its programming, tributes and commissions has regularly slighted the contributions of white musicians. Of 16 musicians commissioned to create original music cited by Mr. Gibson, 4 four were white, 1 was Latino and the rest were black. The commissions range from $2,500 to $15,000. Mr. Marsalis, whose composing gets more mixed notices than his playing, has been commissioned to do a work every year but one since they began as part of his contract. Mr. Gibson declined to say how much Mr. Marsalis is paid.
Mr. Marsalis and Mr. Gibson dismiss any notion of a racial slant, and others say that almost any fair reading of the giants of jazz would have a preponderance of blacks. And Mr. Gibson said many criticisms reflected the misimpression that Mr. Marsalis's work is synonymous with Jazz at Lincoln Center.
"I think lots of the people who criticize us have never looked at what we do," Mr. Gibson said. "You can't look at the musicians we've featured and say this is a predictable, narrow approach."
Mr. Gibson cited musicians as diverse as Benny Carter, Ray Santos, the Japanese conductor and arranger Katsuhiko Tanaka and Joe Lovano as evidence of the range of works presented at Lincoln Center.
In addition to a broad range of concerts, programming this year includes a yearlong celebration of the centennial of Duke Ellington's birth and collaborations with the New York Philharmonic and New York City Ballet.
Mr. Marsalis said he makes no apologies for making esthetic judgments of what musicians to feature, decisions that have largely tuned out both avant-gardists on one side and purveyors of pop jazz or electric funk on the other.
He said the focus on a jazz canon is not a static approach to jazz but a way of establishing a bedrock of excellence that all great players need to master before they can develop fully on their own.
"If you're a writer, it's assumed that you should know Shakespeare or Melville or Dickens," Mr. Marsalis said. "But in our field, for some reason, you had people saying to be great in jazz you're not supposed to know anything. That's the view that was prevalent when I was coming up, and that's what's helped to deplete our field of musicians."
Some musicians say the real problem is not what Lincoln Center does or doesn't do, but that so few others are trying to do the same thing. There are plenty of jazz orchestras, including Jon Faddis's Carnegie Hall Jazz Band, but no major arts institution has made the commitment that Lincoln Center has to a continuing presence.
"Wynton has to be himself; if Ornette Coleman was heading Jazz at Lincoln Center, it would be very different," said Joe Lovano, a white saxophonist, who received a Lincoln Center commission for a work. "What Wynton is doing is great. The trouble is you can't expect them to do everything. What you'd like to see is for this to springboard across the country, so that every city that has a major symphony orchestra has a jazz orchestra as well."
Even some of the critics say Lincoln Center's role in many ways mirrors the commercial currents of jazz in general and the constraints of trying to run a nonprofit organization at high-cost venues like Alice Tully Hall. Thus Lester Bowie, a trumpeter and vocal critic of Mr. Marsalis, said he did not expect to play at Lincoln Center because his work is more popular in Europe than in the United States.
Mr. Gibson said much of the backbiting had reflected the inevitable growing pains of a program starting with the most essential music and slowly making its way through the rich panoply of the jazz world.
 
New Solutions In a New Home
He said the new hall would allow Jazz at Lincoln Center to present 5 to 10 times as much jazz in New York as the organization has been able to do in the past, some of it in smaller or less expensive spaces that will be more conducive to commercially marginal fare.
"There are a lot more musicians and a lot more of the jazz community we want to put on our stage," he said. "I mean we're just getting to Hank Jones. This is one of the most important jazz musicians of our time. He's 80 years old, and we've never had him on our stage. We're not trying to be politically correct. It just takes time to get to everyone we'd like to have. People forget that we're a very young organization in a very young art form. We're at the mezzanine level of a 20-story building."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wynton Marsalis, left, artistic director of Jazz at Lincoln Center, and its orchestra performing with dancers, above, for a PBS special. (Associated Press (left)/Ruby Washington/The New York Times(above))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JAZZ AT LINCOLN CENTER LINCOLN CENTER (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAZZ AT LINCOLN CENTER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; SURVEYS AND SERIES JAZZ & BLUES (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); DANCERS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); BUDGETS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; MARSALIS, WYNTON MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



584 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 3; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: In Peru, Evidence of an Early Human Maritime Culture

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD 

 BODY:
ABOUT 12,000 years ago, people living in what is now southern Peru camped on the Pacific shore and feasted on fish, seabirds and shellfish. The remains of stone tools, hearths and butchered bird bones found at two Peruvian sites are the earliest known evidence of maritime-based cultures in the New World, scientists reported last week.
The findings, described in the current issue of the journal Science, also provide further proof that people were in America earlier than once thought. Of possibly even more importance, they support an emerging view of how the first Americans lived and how they migrated through the length of North and South America. This rethinking of the peopling of the New World is becoming one of the liveliest areas of research and controversy in American archeology. 
 In the new view, it appears that the earliest Americans were not all hunters spearing big game like mammoths and bison, as they have long been portrayed in prehistoric studies. The Peruvian discoveries, along with other recent research, show that many of the people who first inhabited the Americas relied on diverse resources for survival: big game and small, plants and fruits, marine life and just about anything at hand.
Dr. Daniel H. Sandweiss of the University of Maine at Orono, who directed research at one of the sites, said in a telephone interview: "This finally makes it abundantly clear that these people had a very diverse subsistence system and were prepared to exploit all different kinds of food sources almost as soon as they arrived in America. We had thought this before, but we can prove it now."
Research by Dr. Anna C. Roosevelt, an archeologist at the Field Museum and the University of Illinois in Chicago, had already found that people living 11,000 years ago in the Amazon basin had opportunistic subsistence economies that seldom included big game. Likewise, the oldest confirmed settlement site in the Americas, at Monte Verde in southern Chile, was occupied 12,500 years ago by people who ate mastodon meat when available but more usually dined on potatoes, mushrooms, grasses, nuts, berries and freshwater shellfish.
"Now there's recognition that early Americans did not live by mammoth alone," said Dr. David J. Meltzer, an archeologist at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, commenting on the Peruvian findings.
Until last year, when archeologists finally accepted the antiquity of the Monte Verde site, the earliest confirmed traces of human activity in the Americas had been 11,200-year-old stone spear points discovered in the 1930's near Clovis, N.M. The distinctive points were later found scattered throughout much of the two continents, creating the impression of the first Americans as almost exclusively big-game hunters. This led to the prevailing hypothesis that the New World was first populated in the last ice age when sea levels were low. Hunters walked across a land bridge at the Bering Strait in pursuit of game, then moved south through an ice-free corridor between glaciers in the continental interior and eventually made it by foot all the way to the tip of South America.
Dr. David K. Keefer of the United States Geological Survey in Menlo Park, Calif., a geologist and leader of the team that explored the second Peruvian site, said the new evidence of such early maritime-oriented cultures bolstered the case for an alternative migration theory.
"Our site," he said in a telephone interview, "is about the best kind of evidence you're going to find for the idea of coastal migration -- not conclusively probably, but very strong evidence."
Dr. Knut Fladmark, an archeologist at Simon Fraser University in Vancouver, British Columbia, proposed the coastal migration hypothesis in the 1970's, but the idea gained few adherents until recently. Geologic and paleoenvironmental studies have begun showing that there probably was not a clear passage between the glaciers early enough to enable people to migrate through the North American interior in time to reach places as far south as Peru, Brazil and Chile when new archeological evidence establishes that they were there.
New estimates, Dr. Fladmark said last week, indicate that the corridor between the glaciers, on the eastern flank of the Rocky Mountains, did not open until 11,500 years ago. If the newcomers to America could not move south through the interior, they might have migrated along the western coast, on foot along the shore and by skin-covered boats for stretches.
Dr. Sandweiss is reserving judgment as to whether the Peruvian sites support the coastal-migration hypothesis. At the site he studied, the people appeared to have occupied it seasonally and spent the rest of the year in the nearby highlands, possibly engaged mostly in hunting.
"The coastal migration is possible, but neither site provides clear evidence for it at this time," Dr. Sandweiss said. "We need a good number more sites up and down the coast to establish anything about migrations."
An advocate of the coastal-migration hypothesis, Dr. Carole A. S. Mandryk of Harvard University, said the Peruvian findings "make me really happy" because they show a culture oriented to the sea and its resources that was living as far south as Peru early enough that their ancestors presumably could not have found a way through the interior glaciers of the ice age. Instead, she said, they would probably have taken the coastal route.
Finding evidence of early coastal settlements and migrations was once thought to be hopeless. At the end of the ice age, melting glaciers raised sea levels and inundated what had been the ancient shorelines. But off Peru, the sea floor drops off so steeply that when the sea levels rose, not much land was submerged. Buried remains of settlements close to the ice-age coast might still be recoverable.
Both discovery sites are in the arid south of Peru, near Arequipa. The site Dr. Keefer's group excavated, called Quebrada Tacahuay, was about a half-mile from the present shore. As a geologist, Dr. Keefer was originally looking for buried evidence of the effects of ancient El Ninos on early cultures. Layers of sediments revealed deposits of mud and rock from floods brought about by El Nino, a Pacific Ocean warm-water current that every few years generates storms and heavy rain along the western coasts of the Americas and droughts in Australia and Asia.
Deep among the flood deposits, the geologists and archeologists found the charcoal and stones of a cooking hearth, radiocarbon dated at 10,700 years, or about 12,700 calendar years old. Further exploration turned up an abundance of seabird bones, particularly cormorants and boobies. Butcher marks suggest that the people were removing the meaty breast parts. The second most abundant remains were anchovy bones. Only a few bones of terrestrial animals were found.
"The remains of such small, schooling fish at the site suggest the use of specialized fish-netting technology," the scientists reported in the Science article.
The second site, called Quebrada Jaguay and worked by Dr. Sandweiss's group, was a few miles inland by the bed of seasonal stream flowing out of the highlands to the coastal desert. People occupied the site for a time 13,000 to 11,000 years ago, gathering clams and small fish of the drum family. Archeologists found some stone tools, petrified wood and small pieces of obsidian as cutting tools.
In their Science report, Dr. Sandweiss and his colleagues said the bones and stones at Quebrada Jaguay suggest that the people there were foragers who spent part of their time in the highlands and part on the coast exploiting marine resources. While at the shore, they relied almost exclusively on the sea for food.
"This conclusion supports other recent studies showing early diversification of subsistence beyond an economy based on the hunting of large game," the scientists wrote.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A stone-cutting tool about two inches long and some 12,500 years old surrounded by seabird bones as found at Quebrada Tacahuay, Peru. (David K. Keefer)
 
Map/Chart: "Go South Early Man"
The discovery of ancient camps in Peru and Chile bolsters the theory that early Americans may have migrated south via a coastal route as well as the more commonly accepted land route. Researchers think that moving along the sea would have been easier than following the more mountainous path to the East.
(Source: David G. Anderson, Southeast Archaeology Center, Tallahassee, Fla.)
 
Map of North and South America shows location of proposed path of migration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); PERU (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (71%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); 

STATE: BERING SEA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (70%); 

CITY: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: SCIENCE (JOURNAL) UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCIENCE (JOURNAL) UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MAINE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU; NORTH AMERICA; LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (95%); PERU (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (71%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); BERING SEA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (70%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); OCEANS (73%); SPORT HUNTING (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE DAVID G ANDERSON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



585 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
YEN WEAKENS. The dollar rose against Japan's currency, helped by a late rebound in United States stocks and by cracks in Japan's banking overhaul plan. In New York, the dollar settled at 134.49 yen, up from 132.60 on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since April 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



586 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
A Fourth Day ofPrice Gains Lowers 30-Year Yield to 5.12%

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury yields declined yesterday for the fourth consecutive session, with no significant economic reports to move the market.
In addition to the scarcity of economic data, many investors were observing Rosh ha-Shanah, the Jewish New Year, and trading volume was down about 11 percent from normal, according to Govpx, a bond pricing service. 
 By late in the day the 30-year bond was up 12/32 to a price of 105 27/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, slipped to 5.12 percent, from 5.14 percent on Friday.
Widening concern among investors that Japan's recession will worsen and cut into corporate profits, and questions as to whether Japan will be able to overhaul its battered banking system anytime soon, once again increased the attractiveness of Treasuries as an alternative investment to stocks, lowering long bond yields to levels not seen for 30 years.
The telecast of President Clinton's grand jury testimony in the Monica Lewinsky matter appeared to have little impact on the market.
Bill Gamba, vice president and manager of taxable fixed-income securities for the S. G. Cowen Private Client Group, said the market had been anticipating the videotape since last week and had already priced in all the negatives, so when the tapes were released, "There was a relief rally in stocks, and that helped take some of the flight to safety out of bonds."
"We have the second-quarter G.D.P. report this week, which is considered important, and a two-year-note auction on Wednesday," Mr. Gamba said. "Given the current condition of the global economies and financial markets elsewhere in the world, I think the two-year will have no problem getting done."
In when-issued trading, dealers were offering the new two-year issue at a price to yield 4.61 percent.
The following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of new three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.828	97.667	Discounted Rate	4.63%	4.61%	Coupon Yield	4.75%	4.79%	High Price	98.835	97.682	Discounted Rate	4.61%	4.58%	Coupon Yield	4.72%	4.75%	Low Price	98.825	97.662	Discounted Rate	4.65%	4.62%	Coupon Yield	4.76%	4.80%	Accepted at low price	15%	66%	Total applied for	$26,114,088	$25,907,987	Accepted	$11,134,088	$11,280,987	Noncompetitive	$1,170,497	$1,205,627	

Both issues are dated Sept. 24, 1998. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 24, 1998, and the six-month bills mature on Mar. 25, 1999.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rated at weekly auction, since June. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IAP (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT ICAP PLC (58%); SG COWEN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ROSH HASHANAH (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INTEREST RATES (60%); GRAND JURY (53%); TESTIMONY (53%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



587 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: Executive Changes

 BODY:
EMC CORP., Hopkinton, Mass., the maker of corporate computer-storage systems, said John Egan, its executive vice president for products and offerings, would leave the company after 15 years to pursue other interests. Paul Noble Jr. was named to succeed Mr. Egan, who is the son of the company co-founder Richard Egan.
T. ROWE PRICE ASSOCIATES INC., Baltimore, said it had hired Alan D. Levenson as chief economist, replacing Paul Boltz, who retired in April after 15 years with the company.
TRUMP HOTELS AND CASINO RESORTS INC., Atlantic City, which has seen its stock price fall 67 percent over the last year, said its chief financial officer, Bruce McKee, had resigned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EMC (NYSE) (94%); TROW (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (71%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: EMC CORP (94%); T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (72%); TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); CASINOS (85%); RESORTS (83%); 

PERSON: RICHARD EGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



588 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Grupo Televisa to Cut 20% of Its Staff

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Grupo Televisa S.A., Mexico's largest television network, plans to cut about 4,000 jobs, or nearly 20 percent of its work force, by the end of this month as part of a yearlong effort to trim costs.
The cuts, which will leave Televisa with about 17,000 employees, are aimed at achieving $60 million in annual cost reductions, executives said last week. That would add to $25 million in annual savings from layoffs made in the first six months of the year. 
 The latest cuts will come from all departments and all seniority levels. Many of the affected employees will have to leave the company this week.
Shortly after its longtime chairman, Emilio Azcarraga Milmo, died last year, Televisa vowed to cut $100 million in annual fixed costs. It sold corporate jets, cut executive pay and closed offices in New York and Los Angeles.
The cost-cutting drive is being led by Gilberto Perezalonso, who was hired by Televisa as chief financial officer earlier this year from Cifra S.A., one of Latin America's best-performing retailers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TV (NYSE) (97%); TLEVISA (BMV) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (97%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (97%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (97%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (97%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (97%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: GRUPO TELEVISA SA GRUPO TELEVISA SA (97%); CIFRA SA (69%); NEW YORK JETS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRUPO TELEVISA SA NEW YORK JETS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (78%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES LAYOFFS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); RETAILERS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



589 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Selloff Abroad Is Deflected By Wall St.

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Stocks weathered a sharp selloff on European markets yesterday and finished modestly higher, led by strong gains among bellwether technology issues.
The Dow Jones industrial average overcame an early 185-point deficit to close up 37.59 points, or five-tenths of 1 percent, at 7,933.25. The advance leaves the Dow with a small gain for the year. 
 Earlier, however, traders reacted with alarm to developments in foreign markets, particularly in Europe, where prices on most major exchanges tumbled on renewed worries about Russia and Japan, as well as concerns over President Clinton's videotaped grand jury testimony in the Monica Lewinsky matter.
"A sense of foreboding about Clinton didn't help the European markets," said one block trader, who insisted on not being identified. "And in our market the testimony was a big distraction."
Every major stock market in Europe fell yesterday, with drops of more than 5 percent on the Swiss, Italian and Dutch exchanges. The CAC-40 index in France was off more than 3.5 percent, the DAX index in Germany fell 3.98 percent, and the FTSE 100 index in London lost 1.29 percent.
There were also sharp drops in Asia and in Brazil. In Japan, the Nikkei index fell 2.76 percent, and the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong dropped 3.70 percent. The Bovespa index in Brazil lost 3.87 percent.
The selling continued when trading shifted to New York. But the early losses were reversed as the session progressed, and by late in the session the Dow moved into positive territory.
Some broader market indexes also had modest advances. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 3.80, or four-tenths of 1 percent, to 1,023.89. And the Nasdaq composite index was up 16.66, or 1 percent, to 1,680.43. But the Big Board's composite index fell 0.11, to 507.43, and the Russell 2000 index dipped 0.62, to 362.64.
Declining issues outnumbered those that gained by a margin of about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume fell to 609.9 million shares, from 795.7 million shares on Friday.
Traders said the observance of Rosh ha-Shanah, the Jewish New Year, and the broadcast of Mr. Clinton's Aug. 17 testimony helped depress the level of activity.
Some traders did say, however, that they were encouraged by what has happened recently. "We are climbing the infamous wall of worry," one said. "And with interest rates where they are, there is no way stocks can go down. They can trade off for a while, but then they will bounce back."
Technology stocks, which played a critical role in the climb of the market averages and have had a leading part in the recent selloff, were impressive performers yesterday.
Motorola gained 2, to 48 1/2. International Business Machines was up 3 1/2, to 128 3/16. Microsoft closed at 107 7/8, up 2 1/2. And shares of the 3Com Corporation, the second-largest computer-networking company, rose 1 5/8, or 5.3 percent, to 32 1/16, on optimism that it will meet Wall Street's expectations when it releases quarterly results today. Although many companies have already braced investors about coming earnings reports, traders remain nervous about the numbers that will be announced in the next few weeks. And they are quite willing to punish companies that have unexpected bad news.
An example yesterday was Praxair Inc. The company, the third-largest supplier of industrial gases, said that earnings for its 1998 fiscal year would be less than expected because of slower domestic sales.
Traders responded by pounding Praxair's stock, pushing it down by 2 13/16, or nearly 8 percent, to 32 13/16.
And Praxair was not alone.
The American depository receipts of Royal Philips Electronics fell 5, or 9.8 percent, to 46, after the Dutch company warned that its third-quarter results would be lower than expected. And shares of Xerox lost 4, to 79 9/16, after analysts at Lehman Brothers cut 1998 earnings estimates, citing the company's exposure in Latin America.
"The market is in a recovery that began at the start of the month," said Phil Roth, chief technical analyst at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. "But it has not really demonstrated sustained strength. We have had shake-outs, and it has held. But we are not seeing genuine investment demand. I don't think the selloff is over."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The graphs were grim yesterday in Zurich, where stocks lost 5 percent. (Reuters)(pg. C10)
 
Graphs: "Out of Step"
Stock markets in Asia, Europe and Latin America tumbled yesterday, but the U.S. managed to buck the trend.
 
United States
Dow Jones industrials -- +0.48
 
Britain
FTSE 100 -- -1.29
 
Japan
Nikkei 225 -- -2.76
 
Hong Kong
Hang Seng -- -3.70
 
Brazil
Bovespa -- -3.87
 
Germany
DAX -- -3.98
 
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)
 
Another graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since October 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (50%); IBMC (BRU) (50%); IBM (NYSE) (50%); IBM (LSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); BRAZIL (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (90%); GERMANY (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (56%); 

CITY: ZURICH (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (50%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (95%); BRAZIL (93%); JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (90%); GERMANY (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (56%); ZURICH (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX STOCK INDEXES (97%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (78%); TESTIMONY (75%); WITNESSES (70%); GRAND JURY (70%); ROSH HASHANAH (65%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N BILL CLINTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



590 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Going Begging, Companies in Florida Adapt

BYLINE: By DENNIS BLANK 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Sept. 21

 BODY:
BellSouth Telecommunications of Miami, a unit of the BellSouth Corporation, says it has taken more than six months to fill 500 newly created jobs in Florida. Even more surpisingly, it went through 10,000 applicants before getting the people it wanted.
The story is the same for other big corporate employers throughout the South but particularly here in Florida, where a lot of companies have largely abandoned normal recruiting procedures such as classified advertising to rely on signing bonuses, putting notices on the Internet and offering prizes to employees who bring in new workers. 
 Joe Lacher, president of the BellSouth unit, is frustrated that high schools and colleges are not turning out more qualified people. "We have made 10,000 contacts, and we cannot find a sufficient number of people," he said. "That certainly raises questions about our education system."
It also says something about the tightness of the labor market at a time when unemployment nationwide is just 4.5 percent and even lower in many economic hot spots such as Florida and California.
BellSouth Telecommunications now has a work force of 12,000 in Florida, and customer demand for more phones forced the company to create the new jobs last December. Starting pay for phone service representatives is $19,200 a year and for installers, $21,000.
"There has been a virtual explosion in people adding second lines," said Spero Canton, a company spokesman. "Growth has gone beyond people's expectations. The demand for second lines for modems, fax machines and a kid's line is standard now."
The company has a very "demanding" test, which results in a high number of failures, Mr. Canton said. Among other problems, most applicants do not have enough technical education and some do not pass the company drug test, he said.
"In many cases, it has taken longer than we expected," Mr. Canton said, "but we are still making progress."
The pool of qualified applicants for both skilled and unskilled jobs continues to shrink as the state's unemployment rate rides at a low 4.3 percent, with Orlando the lowest at 3 percent, according to the latest figures. It is common for major employers like the Walt Disney Company, the Harris Corporation and Stein Mart to have thousands of vacancies posted all the time.
More employers are extending their searches to other states and scouring the Internet job boards.
"Florida is tight up and down the skill levels," said Kevin Brickey, an economist with the Florida Department of Labor. "We're seeing quite a lot of employers expand their efforts to a larger radius than they once did."
Even in some less skilled jobs, such as those in fast-food restaurants, employers are raising wages for new workers by 25 cents an hour or more to attract help. And many jobs still go unfilled.
Disney, the largest employer in the state at a single site -- with 51,000 workers -- has more than 1,000 job openings and is looking at ways to improve recruiting. "We are constantly reinventing ourselves," said Kelly Frank, Disney's director of employment in Orlando. "We are constantly evaluating our recruiting tactics."
Disney frequently offers signing bonuses of $2,000 and in some cases up to $10,000 for hard-to-fill high-technology jobs. Moreover, seasonal workers now get a full 40-hour workweek with benefits and more flexible schedules. A few years ago, most got part-time hours and no benefits.
At Stein Mart Inc., a chain of 900 family clothing stores in 30 states that is based in Jacksonville, Fla., its stores are "never totally staffed," said Hunt Hawkins, the human resources director. "It is like spitting in the wind, to put out expensive classified advertising," he said.
Stein Mart replaced classified advertising with a reward program for employees who refer new store clerks, who start at $5.50 to $6.50 an hour. The recruiting employees are given shirts and hats, and managers get annual $100 bonuses. Even so, the chain says it takes at least 10 interviews to hire one person.
A task force is putting together a plan to "identify creative approaches" to recruiting the workers needed, especially in major population centers such as Atlanta, Chicago and San Jose, Calif., Mr. Hawkins said.
At the Harris Corporation, a military contractor and manufacturer of communications equipment that is based in Melbourne, Fla., and employs 29,000 worldwide, it usually takes six to eight weeks to fill an opening, Ronald Hutt, senior manager of human resources, said. Computer-related high-technology positions may go unfilled for four to five months.
While Harris continues to use classified advertising, job fairs and $2,000 signing bonuses, it has also found a new conduit by opening a Web site for college graduates. The candidates can look over available jobs and file their resumes electronically. In addition, Harris has built up an internship program with specific schools that refer top students who alternate working a semester and going to school a semester.
Some employers have also established junior college branches at work locations to allow workers to take courses in the evening so they can advance. The Peabody Hotel in Orlando, which employs 800, has expanded its offerings from food service to marketing, accounting and convention management courses on a cooperative agreement with Valencia College. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (81%); HRS (NYSE) (63%); SMRT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (94%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (94%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (81%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (81%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (51%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (51%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AT&T SOUTHEAST (94%); WALT DISNEY CO (81%); HARRIS CORP (63%); STEIN MART INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (98%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; HIRING AND PROMOTION; INTERNET AND WORLD WIDE WEB; BONUSES; ADVERTISING TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BONUS PAY (77%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); FAST FOOD (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); 

PERSON: BLANK, DENNIS MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



591 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Paralysis

 BODY:
A political deal on how to close insolvent Japanese banks appears to be unraveling rapidly, raising the specter of continued inaction on the financial crisis facing the world's second-largest economy. That would constitute an abdication of responsibility not only to the Japanese people but to the global economy that needs a healthy Japan.
Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi, who is to meet with President Clinton today, supposedly had worked out a deal with opposition parties in the Japanese Parliament to have the state take over insolvent banks, but it is now in doubt because of opposition to the use of public money to keep such banks afloat before they are taken over. Moreover, the Prime Minister, in an interview with editors and reporters from The New York Times, said yesterday he believed that stockholders in the banks should be compensated by the Government, a misguided position that is likely to be unpopular in Japan, and deservedly should be. 
 The Japanese Government needs to make it clear that it will bail out depositors, but not owners, of failed banks. The Government also needs to move promptly to determine which banks must be closed and which can continue. Protecting depositors will cost large amounts of public money, and the political opposition needs to understand and accept that.
Without action, the credit crunch, which has made loans hard to come by for Japanese businesses, will continue indefinitely, delaying recovery from Japan's severe recession and thereby making recovery even less likely in other Asian countries.
The bad-debt problem for Japanese banks is huge, but it is manageable in an economy as wealthy as Japan's. Japan would benefit from quick action, but even if there were agreement, it would take time to institute a plan. With the risk of Japanese inaction high, it is more necessary than ever for the other major economies -- particularly Germany and the United States -- to take steps such as lowering interest rates in an effort to stimulate world growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BANKS AND BANKING BANK FAILURES (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); TRENDS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: OBUCHI, KEIZO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



592 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: THE UNITED NATIONS: BRITAIN;
Remodel World Bank And I.M.F., Blair Urges

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain yesterday urged a revamping of the way the world's financial institutions deal with global economic turmoil, and said the procedures of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank had to be updated.
He noted that the I.M.F. and the World Bank, set up 54 years ago at a conference in Bretton Woods, N.H., "were constructed for a world of fixed exchange rates and capital controls, when capital flows were much smaller." 
 "The current crisis illustrated the weakness of the existing international financial system," Mr. Blair said. "It needs to be modernized to meet the challenges of a new century."
"Reform there has got to be," he said, departing from his text and glancing up at the group of 24 top executives and other officials in the ornate boardroom of the New York Stock Exchange.
"We should not be afraid to think radically and fundamentally," Mr. Blair told the group, which listened silently, then rose to applaud him at the end and followed him to a luncheon. He cut short his speech after an address at the United Nations in which he urged greater world cooperation against terrorists.
The Prime Minister, who the current chairman of the Group of Seven leading industrial nations, e said he was considering calling a meeting of the group's government leaders to push for the reforms. The Group of Seven is made up of the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Japan, Italy and Canada.
Mr. Blair outlined a series of changes that he said were necessary to deal with the current and future global economic turmoil.
He said there was a need for greater openness and transparency, which would include the setting up of international accounting standards. He welcomed an attempt by the I.M.F. to come up with a code on more fiscal openness.
He also called for improving financial supervision and regulation and said the I.M.F. and the World Bank needed to give those areas a much higher priority.
The world, Mr. Blair continued, had to develop better ways to respond to a short-term crisis of liquidity when a country has trouble converting its money into other currencies.
"The I.M.F. does not and cannot play this role -- the finance it provides is strictly limited and is usually provided in return for specific demands negotiated over a period of time," he said.
He added that the vast flows of capital in the current economic crisis posed some new challenges.
"It is vital that global investors assess more carefully the risks associated with their lending decisions and price their loans accordingly," he said. "We need a new mechanism to insure close and regular contact between governments and the private sector that can provide early warning of problems."
He also called for greater openness and accountability by international financial institutions.
"I would like to see improved openness in procedures and more systematic external evaluations of I.M.F. policies," he said. "It is important, too, that programs should take full account of their impact on the poorest sections of society."
He said that to put through the current reforms "we will have to reach out to a wider community -- both the developing nations and outside experts -- including financiers, economists and businessmen." The governors of the I.M.F. and the World Bank are scheduled to meet from Oct. 6 to 8 in Washington, where they are expected to discuss the proposals made by Mr. Blair and others.
The I.M.F., which has lent about $25 billion in the last year, has run into sharp criticism in nations like Thailand, Indonesia and South Korea, where its aid has been coupled with requirements for tough changes such as closing down of weak financial institutions. Interest rates have also been pushed up sharply in those countries.
As a result, governments have been forced to cut spending, which led to the killing of social programs and public works programs.
Mr. Blair said the resources of the I.M.F. needed to be strengthened. Last week some members of Congress blocked a move by President Clinton to increase the funding of the I.M.F.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; UNITED NATIONS NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (99%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); TRENDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TERRORISM (51%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) TONY BLAIR (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



593 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: NASA Wants Money to Save Russia Partner

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
Worried that trouble in Moscow is threatening its own dreams, NASA wants to spend up to $660 million over five years to bail out its Russian partner in building a planned international space station, agency officials said yesterday.
Key members of Congress immediately faulted the proposal as too expensive, clouding the fate of the biggest science project of all time. But NASA officials argued that the American and Russian programs were now linked so intimately that the Russian effort must be preserved lest the American space program suffer greatly. 
 In just two months, orbital construction is to start on the sprawling outpost for astronauts, which is expected to cost more than $40 billion.
But even if the new bailout goes through and keeps the Russians afloat, the station project is facing another round of construction delays next year because of Russia's problems in building a crucial part. The lag in that work will also have costly repercussions for the nation's fleet of space shuttles, which are to carry station elements into orbit.
Already, past delays have cut the flight rate of the shuttles to unusually low levels, and NASA officials are scrambling to find new shuttle payloads to compensate for looming gaps in outpost construction.
"The Russian economy has spiraled down, dramatically," Joseph H. Rothenberg, the associate administrator for space flight at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, said in an interview. "We are actively looking for what payloads may be available" to make up for station lags.
In total, Mr. Rothenberg said, the new bid to save the Russians and the beleaguered outpost is likely to cost about $1.2 billion, including the new money for the Russians as well as $540 million in new American work like modifying the shuttles so they can do more station lifting.
"This is a plan," he said of the Russia aid. "No commitment from anybody has been made" to provide new money.
Mr. Rothenberg said that the space agency had already squeezed its own $13.6 billion budget as far as possible to find emergency money for the outpost's rescue and that it was eager for new money.
Over all, he said, NASA wants to pay the Russians $60 million this fiscal year for new goods and services and then up to $150 million a year over the next four years as an aid to station construction. The $660 million is to help make up for money the Russians would have put forth themselves had their economy not fallen apart.
The $1.2 billion in emergency money, Mr. Rothenberg said, was much cheaper than loosing Moscow's help altogether. "Any alternative you look at without the Russians would hit the program hard," he said, because their absence would delay the outpost's construction by years and add up to $2 billion in costs.
But top members of Congress are questioning the new bailout.
"Given NASA's track record, we are justifiably concerned and skeptical," said Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who heads the Senate Commerce Committee, which oversees NASA.
Some critics go further, saying NASA officials should put the whole station project on indefinite hold.
"They're trying to stick with a failed strategy," James E. Oberg, a American expert on the Russian space program, said in an interview, adding that the station's problems threatened to add billions of dollars in hidden costs to NASA's shuttle operations. "Next year's shuttle schedule is entirely up in the air."
At worst, Mr. Oberg said, NASA could end up with a half-built station and the Russians entirely out of the picture if their downward spiral continues. He said it would be much better to pause now and rethink the station venture from the ground up.
The plan for station cooperation arose in 1993 after the cold war. The Clinton Administration saw Moscow's participation as an important symbol of new cooperation between East and West. Supporting the Russian program was also viewed as a way to keep Russian space scientists employed in peaceful pursuits.
After five years of close collaboration, ties between the Russian and American space station efforts are now so extensive that repercussions of Russia's financial turmoil have increasingly roiled American plans, budgets and gear. Last month, for example, Russia's main spaceport temporarily lost power because of unpaid bills, postponing a number of rocket launchings and sending shock waves through Washington.
The situation "is deteriorating," NASA told the White House in a confidential briefing in late July that was made public by NASA Watch, an Internet publication.
In the briefing, NASA said the Russian Space Agency needed $340 million this year to build parts for its share of the international outpost, but so far had received only $20 million from its Government. The outlook for improvement "is bleak," the assessment said.
Jeffrey Manber, managing director of Energia Ltd., the American arm of a top Russian contractor making station parts, strongly agreed.
"The philosophical question," Mr. Manber said in an interview, "is whether you maintain the illusion that the Government of Russia can keep its objectives or do you deal with Russian industry for goods and services."
Over the years, Washington has paid Moscow $742 million for station-related work, Congressional experts say.
Recently, the White House has taken to rejecting NASA requests for new bailout money to aid the Russians, so the agency has raided its own budget. But criticism in Congress, among scientists and in the aerospace community is rising.
"NASA needs to stop draining other vital programs to feed the space station's voracious hunger for more money," Space News, an industry publication, said in an editorial last month.
The developing crisis in the International Space Station has been overshadowed in the past year or so by the travails of its wobbly predecessor, the Russian Mir outpost, which has suffered a fire, navigation breakdowns and a collision with a supply ship.
Originally, orbital construction of the follow-on station was to begin in November 1997. But the threadbare Russians kept missing deadlines. So the starting date slipped to June of this year and then to November, a year later than planned.
The outpost's first element, 43 feet long, paid for by the United States and built by Russia, is now scheduled to ride into space atop a Russian rocket roughly two months from now. Then, over five or six years, scores of Russian rocket and American shuttle launchings are to loft 500 tons of parts and supplies.
When it is finished, the outpost of laboratories and living areas will be nearly the size of two football fields and will orbit hundreds of miles above Earth, powered by huge arrays of solar-energy cells.
Today, the main hurdle is not the station's first element, which the Russians have ready to go for launching in November, nor the second, which the Americans have ready to go for launching in December.
Rather, it is the third, the first element to be fabricated by Russia on its own. This so-called service module would provide early living quarters and, more important, would have propellant tanks and thrusters to keep the craft from plunging back to Earth. It is officially set for launching in April but is unfinished and its fate is increasingly uncertain.
American experts say Russia needs up to $210 million to finish, test and launch the crucial unit. It might be ready to fly in July 1999 at the earliest.
Meanwhile, American officials are loath to send up the first modules without confidence that the vital third one will show up relatively soon thereafter.
To aid the Russians, the space agency is now seeking to buy two lifeboats for the station from Russian at a cost of roughly $100 million, Mr. Rothenberg said.
Mr. Rothenberg insisted that taking $100 million from other NASA programs was prudent and that the money would eventually be paid back. The current goal, he added, is to rush Moscow $60 million by the end of this month.
In the meantime, NASA is working on its own partial backup to the Russian service module, a skeleton unit would periodically lift the outpost into a safer orbit. The agency is also preparing to have the shuttles modified so their engines can aid the lifting job.
Things will be clearer after agency officials meet with the Russians late this month, after which schedules will be recast, yet again.
Originally, most shuttle flights that NASA had planned for this year were for station construction. But delays cut this year's flights from four to one. As a result, by the time Senator John Glenn rockets into space in October there will have been no shuttle launchings for five months, a silence on the launching pad that private experts say is dangerous.
NASA officials say the rocket specialists at the Florida spaceport must loft shuttles regularly or loose their edge. Today, they are struggling to keep launching teams in Florida sharp with computer simulations, while they search for alternate payloads.
One developing plan is to have the shuttles send up logistics materials and supplies ahead of schedule. Another is to add a science mission unconnected to the outpost.
In the more distant future, Mr. Rothenberg noted, demands on the shuttles will actually soar since Russia has informed NASA it cannot afford to launch unpiloted resupply ships to the outpost at the rate it expected.
While 33 Russian supply ships were originally promised to haul up cargo and propellant, the number has now dwindled to 15 or 17, and the shuttles will have to take up the slack.
"That's put a change into the program," Mr. Rothenberg said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SPACE STATIONS; SPACE SHUTTLE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL SPACE COOPERATION AND VENTURES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US SPACECRAFT (92%); SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACE SHUTTLE (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACE STATIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRENDS (73%); SPACE INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERVIEWS (65%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J JOSEPH H ROTHENBERG (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



594 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japanese Bank Compromise Frays Already

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 21

 BODY:
A broad-based banking compromise measure that Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi had hailed as the foundation for Japan's economic recovery began to fray today, just as Mr. Obuchi prepared to meet with President Clinton in the United States on Tuesday.
The banking deal, which Mr. Obuchi had pursued intensely in advance of his meeting with Mr. Clinton, at the Rockefeller estate near Tarrytown, N.Y., had been many weeks in the making. It was intended to help stabilize Japan's shaky financial system and to be the basis for legislation to restore international confidence in the nation's economy. 
 Japanese markets reacted to the development negatively. Stocks fell sharply here today, with the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues dropping by 385.82 points, or 2.76 percent, to 13,597.30, a 12 1/2-year low. The exchange value of the yen declined against the dollar. On Tuesday morning, both stocks and the yen were up modestly.
Also today, a major bond-rating agency, Fitch IBCA of London, lowered Japan's long-term foreign currency debt rating from AAA to AA+.
It said that with the nation's deteriorating banking system, increasing Government debt and slow response by policy makers, the risks of lending to Japan by overseas investors could no longer be ignored.
The banking agreement was supposed to forge a sweeping plan that ranged from a framework for rescuing Japan's very large, very weak banks to a sharp reduction in the power of the Finance Ministry, which had been the nation's most influential bureaucracy.
The central dispute today concerned whether an old fund to rescue weak banks -- which Mr. Obuchi promised to dissolve -- would still be used. Since the Government had agreed to abandon old financing devices, many people had assumed that it would not be used.
But Mr. Obuchi's aides now say that they may use the old system anyway because it is necessary to prevent a disruption in the banking system.
"The current scheme will be effective until a new scheme is formed," the top Government spokesman, Hiromu Nonaka, said. "The Government will need to cope without disturbances."
Another top official, Yoshiro Mori, general secretary of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, suggested over the weekend that the old system could be used to assist the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, which is floundering and may need assistance in the coming weeks.
As the Government appeared to backtrack from the agreement, opposition leaders warned that the entire accord might be scrapped.
The leader of the main opposition Democratic Party, Naoto Kan, objected on Sunday to the Government's interpretation. In particular, he rejected the idea of using tax money to bail out the Long-Term Credit Bank under the current setup. Mr. Kan was reported in the Japanese news media to have said that he was braced for the collapse of the compromise.
The disagreements will have to be resolved when Prime Minister Obuchi returns to Tokyo from the United States. And the opposition groups do not seem to be in a mood to give in and allow the use of public funds to help the Long-Term Credit Bank.
"That constitutes a clear violation of our agreement," said Motohisa Ikeda, a member of Parliament who was chief negotiator of the agreement for the Democratic Party, in an interview today. Asked whether it was possible that the agreement would totally unravel, he replied, "I cannot exclude the possibility."
Liberal Democrats and banking officials have suggested that the Long-Term Credit Bank could face a severe upheaval toward the end of this month, when the bank settles its half-year accounts. Yomiuri Shimbun, Japan's largest-circulation daily, carried a report containing charges that the bank had covered up huge amounts of bad debt. The bank, denying this, said there had been no cover-up.
Comments by Mr. Mori, the governing party's general secretary, also suggested that the Liberal Democrats might be backtracking on stripping financial regulatory power from the Finance Ministry.
But Mr. Ikeda, the opposition legislator, said it was more likely that the Liberal Democrats would go back to the agreement.
The heated exchanges, however, underlined the extent of confusion over the compromise, which was marked by the kind of ambiguity that led one Democratic Party official to describe Friday's deal as "tamamushi iro" -- the color of a Japanese insect that seems different depending on the angle from which it is seen.
Party politicians on both sides of the argument acknowledged that a great number of details needed to be ironed out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: ;FITCH IBCA INC BANK OF JAPAN (51%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;FITCH IBCA INC LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CREDIT; CURRENCY; BANKS AND BANKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANK FAILURES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TRENDS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); JAPANESE YEN (73%); 

PERSON: OBUCHI, KEIZO (PRIME MIN); WUDUNN, SHERYL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); NAOTO KAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



595 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: THE UNITED NATIONS: IRAN;
Iranian President Paints a Picture of Peace and Moderation

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Introducing himself as "a man of the East" from "a great and renowned nation," President Mohammad Khatami of Iran tried to woo his global audience today with talk of how freedom-loving and law-abiding Iran is these days and asked for help in resolving the crisis in neighboring Afghanistan.
In his first address to the General Assembly -- and his first trip to the United States -- Mr. Khatami quoted from the New Testament, the Koran and 13th-century Iranian poetry in arguing in philosophical language that dialogue is the key to understanding among nations. 
 What was remarkable about the speech is what it did not say.
There was not a word of criticism of the United States. Indeed, the only direct reference to the United States was an expression of confidence that "powerful nations, such as the American people," will reject the idea that one nation should aim to rule the world as its only superpower.
There was much milder criticism of Israel than usual, and certainly no call to free Jerusalem from Israeli rule and no attack of the 1992 peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians.
And there was no threat to invade Afghanistan, despite the presence of 200,000 Iranian troops on the Afghan border and Iran's relentless condemnation of the repression of Afghanistan under the rule of the militant Taliban movement. In fact, Mr. Khatami said, "there is no military solution to that country's predicament."
Mr. Khatami branded the recent killing of nine Iranian diplomats and a journalist by the Sunni Muslim Taliban part of a pattern of genocide against Shiite Muslims and called on the United Nations to bring all the warring parties into negotiations.
After Mr. Khatami's speech and an eight-country meeting on Afghanistan sponsored by the United Nations that included the United States and Iran, James P. Rubin, the State Department spokesman, said Washington was encouraged by Mr. Khatami and other Iranian officials who said they wanted a peaceful resolution to the Afghan crisis.
Wearing a tan clerical robe, a sheer black cloak and the black turban signifying that he is a descendant of Mohammed, Mr. Khatami seemed more eager to present himself as a global philosopher than a politician with an agenda for change.
"Allow me to speak here as a man from the East, the origin of brilliant civilizations and the birthplace of Divine Prophets: Abraham, Moses, Jesus and Mohammed, peace be upon them all," Mr. Khatami said. "I come from the noble land of Iran, representing a great and renowned nation, famous for its age-old civilization as well as its distinguished contribution to the founding and expansion of the Islamic civilization."
As he spoke, a woman burst past guards into the General Assembly hall and screamed that Mr. Khatami was a murderer and torturer. The woman, identified by United Nations officials as Laila Jazayeri, a 37-year-old Iranian, was subdued by the United Nations security police, who handcuffed her and strapped her to a wheelchair before turning her over to the New York police.
A block away, about 2,000 demonstrators representing the United States-based National Council of Resistance of Iran protested Mr. Khatami's visit and demanded the overthrow of the Teheran Government. The protesters were joined by Senator Robert Torricelli, the New Jersey Democrat, and two Democratic Representatives, Carolyn Maloney of New York and Robert Menendez of New Jersey.
The last time an Iranian President addressed the General Assembly was in 1987, at the height of Iran's eight-year war with Iraq.
The President at that time, Ali Khamenei, who is now its spiritual leader, delivered a speech that blasted the United Nations as "a paper factory for issuing worthless and ineffective orders" and the United States as a lying, imperial-minded "Great Satan" whose military activities in the Persian Gulf had turned the region into a "dangerous powder keg."
In his current position, Ayatollah Khamenei is in charge of the armed forces, the intelligence and security forces, the judiciary and radio and television, and wields much more power than the President. But Mr. Khatami's only reference to the Ayatollah today was to reaffirm support for his proposal that an Islamic country be made a permanent member in the Security Council.
Since Mr. Khatami became President 13 months ago one of his main themes has been the need for a "dialogue among civilizations," code words for bridging the gap between an Islamic Government like Iran's, which is still subject to American economic sanctions, and secular nations around the world.
So it was not surprising that his main proposal today was that the United Nations declare 2001 the "year of dialogue among civilizations." But so far Iran has rejected an American proposal for an official political dialogue with the United States, and Mr. Khatami made no mention of it in his speech today.
As for Israeli-Palestinian relations, Mr. Khatami said peace and security would come to the Middle East only when all Palestinians had the right to "exercise sovereignty over their ancestral homeland." He blamed Israel for making co-existence in Jerusalem impossible.
"Palestine," he added, is the homeland of Muslims, Christians and Jews, "not the laboratory for the violent whims of Zionists."
In the last year, Iran has muted its opposition to the Israeli-Palestinian agreement, but it still supports guerrillas in Lebanon intent on sabotaging the peace effort.
The State Department, in its most recent annual report on terrorism, ranked Iran as the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism, but Mr. Khatami insisted that Iran was a victim, not a perpetrator of terrorism.
And he called for the world to be "liberated" from nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction. The United States believes that Iran is intent on developing a nuclear weapon, a charge Iran denies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mohammad Khatami of Iran, in an address to the General Assembly yesterday, stressed that dialogue is the key to understanding. (Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; ISRAEL; AFGHANISTAN; UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALIBAN (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (70%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (70%); WRITERS (70%); GENOCIDE (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: KHATAMI, MOHAMMAD (PRES); SCIOLINO, ELAINE TZIPORA LIVNI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



596 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Japan's Prime Minister Cites Others' Costly Errors
Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi of Japan, blamed his predecessor, the nation's powerful Finance Ministry and the heads of the country's huge financial institutions for wasting years before the country began to deal with its crippling banking crisis and a deep recession that is worsening the world's economic turmoil.
Mr. Obuchi's comments, in an interview as he prepared to address the United Nations, was the first acknowledgment by a Japanese leader that his country's leadership, both in government and in the private sector, had made huge errors that have now ricocheted around the world. Page A13. 

Financial Promises in Russia
Russia's leaders offered assurances that the country's fiscal crisis could be tamed without provoking high inflation or social unrest. But few people seemed convinced. Neither President Boris N. Yeltsin nor his new Prime Minister, Yevgeny M. Primakov, has settled on a choice for Finance Minister. A3.
 
NASA wants to spend up to $660 million over five years to bail out its Russian partner in building a planned space station. A1.
 
A New Airline-Marketing Link
British Airways and American Airlines announced a new marketing link called oneworld with Canadian Airlines, Qantas Airways and Cathay Pacific. It is intended to compete with the Star Alliance headed by Lufthansa and United Airlines. C2.
 
Lockheed Martin Stock Falls 5%
Shares of Lockheed Martin fell 4.9 percent amid concern that the world's largest military company is putting earnings at risk with its $2.7 billion bid for Comsat. Created by the Government, Comsat is the United States gateway to Intelsat, among the world's largest providers of commercial satellite services. C6.
 
A Rift at Nationsbanc Montgomery
Thomas Weisel resigned as chairman and chief executive of Nationsbanc Montgomery Securities L.L.C. after months of bitter quarreling with his new bosses in Charlotte, N.C. Nationsbank bought Montgomery Securities of San Francisco, which Mr. Weisel founded, for $1.2 billion in October. C4.
 
Philips Electronics Shares Off 17%
Royal Philips Electronics shares fell 17 percent, to the equivalent of $43, in Amsterdam after the company warned of a signifcant decline in profits. C2.
 
Concession Offered on Merger
American Home Products and Monsanto offered to scale down their proposed $37.8 billion merger to overcome European Union antitrust hurdles. C2.
 
Blair Calls for New Procedures
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain called for modernizing the way of dealing with global economic turmoil. The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which were created 54 years ago, "were constructed for a world of fixed exchange rates and capital controls, when capital flows were much smaller," he said. A13.
 
Rule Eased on Cash Reports
The Treasury Department said it was trimming its requirements for reporting large cash transactions to ease the paperwork load on banks. Bankers will still be responsible for reporting any sign of criminal activity. C6.
 
New Pressures on Labor Market
The tight labor market -- unemployment nationwide is just 4.5 percent -- has put new pressures on many economic hot spots like Florida and California. BellSouth Telecommunications of Miami, for example, says it took more than six months to fill 500 newly created jobs. C4.
 
Treasury Bond Yields Decline
Treasury bond yields declined for the fourth consecutive session, with no significant economic reports to move the market. C10.

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 7,933.25, up 37.59
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.12%, down 0.02
The Dollar -- 134.49 yen, up 1.89
 
Graph tracks the share price of Lockheed Martin, since last Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (55%); QAN (ASX) (55%); LMT (NYSE) (55%); I (NYSE) (53%); PHIA (BIT) (52%); PHIA (AMS) (52%); PHG (NYSE) (52%); PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%); MON (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (55%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (51%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (51%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (52%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (55%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (55%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (55%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (54%); INTELSAT SA (53%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS) (52%); PFIZER INC (51%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (51%); MONSANTO CO (51%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); AIRLINES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); MERGERS (86%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (86%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (76%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (76%); ELECTRONICS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); SPACECRAFT (72%); SPACE EXPLORATION (72%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); SPACE STATIONS (67%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (62%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%); 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



597 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: THE UNITED NATIONS: JAPAN;
Tokyo Leader Blames Many for Banks' Crisis

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

 BODY:
Japan's Prime Minister, Keizo Obuchi, today blamed his predecessor, Japan's powerful Finance Ministry and the heads of the country's huge financial institutions for wasting years before facing up to the crippling banking crisis as well as a deep recession that is worsening the world's economic turmoil.
Mr. Obuchi's comments, in an interview yesterday as he prepared to address the United Nations, amounted to an unusual acknowledgment by a Japanese leader that the Government and private sector had made huge errors that have ricocheted through economies around the world. 
 Nonetheless, he failed to lay out any new initiatives, and appeared to acknowledge that an agreement on the banking crisis reached late last week with opposition leaders failed to work out critical details about how the Government will deal with bank debts of nearly a trillion dollars.
That accord was fraying in Tokyo even as Mr. Obuchi prepared for what promises to be a tense first meeting with President Clinton today at the Rockefeller family estate in Tarrytown, N.Y.
As politicians in Tokyo bickered over whether the accord limits the ability of the Japanese Government to pump billions of dollars in public funds into failing banks, the Tokyo Stock Exchange fell drastically, hitting its lowest point since mid-1986.
Mr. Obuchi arrives here a besieged man. Both Britain and Germany have joined the United States in urging Japan to act immediately, and Japanese officials fret these days that they are being blamed -- unfairly, in their eyes -- for the economic meltdown of Southeast Asia and Russia.
Today the International Monetary Fund, which is normally extremely cautious about criticizing a nation that is also one of its largest sources of funds, declared in its annual report that one of the leading risks to the world economy now is that Japan "will not move promptly and resolutely to address its financial sector problems while insuring adequate domestic demand."
"Speed is becoming increasingly critical," the Fund's report concluded.
Mr. Obuchi was clearly prepared today for the inevitable criticism: His briefing papers included a small tab to bring him directly to his talking points on the mounting criticism. The handwritten tab was marked "Too little, too late."
He volunteered, however, that "unfortunately, the Japanese people in general still lack the awareness" of how the country's economic troubles are affecting the rest of the world. He said the lack of awareness has contributed to problems with Parliament.
Mr. Obuchi's portrayal of the Japanese political system as insular is hardly surprising -- critics of the country have been offering similar analyses since Commodore Perry forced the country to open to foreign trade 130 years ago -- but it is a sharp contrast to the way Japanese politicians spoke during the height of the country's prosperity in the late 1980's. Then, they justified Japan's worldwide buying spree as natural for a country that had used the power of the yen to internationalize.
Today Mr. Obuchi gave a very different interpretation of those events.
"It's no wonder the Japanese financial institutions are criticized," the longtime Japanese politician said. Pointing to the view of the New York skyline outside the floor-to-ceiling windows of his hotel suite opposite the United Nations, he said: "Someone even bought Rockefeller Center. What did they produce? Losses. And now they impose them on the Japanese people."
At another point Mr. Obuchi even took a mild jab at Japan's Finance Ministry, which would see some powers stripped away under last week's agreement.
He also indirectly criticized the performance of his predecessor, Ryutaro Hashimoto, describing how his policies of austerity and higher taxes were overwhelmed by the economic crisis that began in Thailand 14 months ago.
"Japan was not able to make a rapid turnaround in its policy," he said. But he insisted that now Japan has made a major shift in economic policy. "Instead of 'too little too late' we want to deal with this in ways that people say 'too big too fast,' " he said.
So far, he is at little risk of facing that criticism. While the Parliament passed legislation during Mr. Hashimoto's term that authorized spending of more than $100 billion to inject capital into failing banks, the accord reached last week scraps that system. It is unclear what will replace it, though Mr. Obuchi insisted today that "public money will be used to buy up the shares" of failing banks.
Whether and how that happens, however, is likely to be the subject of considerable debate at the meeting with Mr. Clinton.
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin was quite specific in Congressional testimony last week, arguing that Japan's problems -- and Asia's -- cannot be solved without the use of taxpayer dollars to pump capital into otherwise insolvent banks. The United States has also called for the management of those banks to be dismissed, for the shareholders to be wiped out, and for their assets -- property held as collateral for loans -- to be auctioned off quickly, to revive a frozen property market.
Mr. Obuchi skirted most of those subjects, however, saying "those matters are not yet worked out." But he did argue that Japan could not risk the uncertainty of letting major banks fail. He noted, for example, that the total liabilities of the virtually insolvent Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, known as L.T.C.B., are "worth 1.2 or 1.3 times the total economy of Indonesia."
"Obviously, we cannot tell L.T.C.B. to quit operating simply because the management of that bank was incompetent," he said.
The mechanics of bailing out banks is not the usual stuff of meetings between prime ministers and presidents, but the session today is bound to focus on those subjects.
"We have to be highly specific," one of Mr. Clinton's top economic aides said last week. "No one has the luxury for the kind of happy-talk generalities we've had in most of these meetings."
But Mr. Obuchi and Mr. Clinton, in a break from past practice, are making no joint public appearance to help calm the markets. Some White House officials say that the Japanese are not eager for their leader to stand before the press silently while Mr. Clinton receives questions about the Monica S. Lewinsky matter. The Japanese say that the White House did not appear eager for a joint appearance.
"They have their problems," one Japanese official said, "and we have ours."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); 

PERSON: OBUCHI, KEIZO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



598 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 23; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Michael Currier, 37, Philanthropic Rancher Who Helped Tibetans

BYLINE: By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
Michael Stephen Currier, a rancher and philanthropist who was the manager of the Economic Development Fund for the Tibetan Community in Exile, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 37, and lived in Santa Fe.
The cause was injuries suffered in a fall in Santa Fe, his family said through a spokesman. 
 For 11 years before his death, he was the manager of the exiles fund, which he also established. The revolving loan fund provides technical and other aid for small businesses operated by Tibetan refugees and their descendants in India and the United States. Those businesses include various Tibetan crafts.
Mr. Currier, who visited Tibet and made many trips to meet with Tibetans in India, wanted to help make Tibetan refugees economically self-sufficient and to help preserve Tibetan religious and cultural traditions. The fund was a major recipient of his philanthropic largesse in the last decade.
His family said that they had received a message from the Dalai Lama, whose headquarters are in India. "He has been especially generous in the help he gave us Tibetans," the message said, "and we will always remain grateful."
In 1995 the Dalai Lama presented the Light of Truth Award, a high honor, to Mr. Currier.
A native New Yorker, he was the son of Stephen Currier and the former Audrey Mellon Bruce, co-founders of the Taconic Foundation, whose operations have included programs to further equal opportunity with emphasis on housing and jobs for young people.
Michael Currier's mother was the granddaughter of Andrew W. Mellon, the financier, industrialist and philanthropist.
Mr. Currier's parents vanished in 1967, while in a private plane flying over the Caribbean Sea. They were never found.
He was raised by a guardian, graduating from Collegiate School in Manhattan, Putney School in Vermont and Williams College.
In his early 20's he was a patron of the Morgan Library and of the Gauchos, a basketball program for children in New York.
An orphan himself, he was devoted to his own children and gave many grants to programs providing nurturing for children.
A grant from him in 1985 helped expand a community foundation founded by blacks in Pittsburgh. Other grants from him in the same period helped found a mental health crisis center and a wild horse sanctuary, both in California.
After he moved to Santa Fe, his philanthropies, mostly anonymous, came to include Southwestern charitable organizations concerned with the environment, rural economic development, care and education for needy children and human rights.
He was on the boards of the Taconic Foundation, the Putney School, the Forest Trust of New Mexico and the Santa Fe Waldorf School.
He also collected art, chiefly drawings of the Old Masters and Chinese works.
He is survived by his wife, the former Karin Griscom; two sons and a daughter; two sisters, Andrea Currier and Lavinia Currier of the Plains, Va., and a grandmother, Mary Warburg of Wilton. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: TIBET (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CARIBBEAN SEA (78%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (53%); 

CITY: SANTA FE, NM, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BRUCE CO OF WISCONSIN INC (67%); TACONIC FOUNDATION (60%); PUTNEY SCHOOL (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: TACONIC FOUNDATION (60%); PUTNEY SCHOOL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TIBET (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (93%); CHINA (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CARIBBEAN SEA (78%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (53%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); REFUGEES (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); HORSES (73%); ORPHANS (70%); LIBRARIES (70%); ART COLLECTING (60%); RELIGION (53%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: CURRIER, MICHAEL STEPHEN; PACE, ERIC DALAI LAMA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



599 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
$1.8 Billion Request For Embassy Security
The Clinton Administration will ask Congress for $1.8 billion for emergency security improvements at most of the nation's 260 embassies and consulates worldwide, a down payment on protecting American missions against terrorism. A1 

Tanzania charged two men with 11 counts of murder in connection with the bombing of the United States Embassy there on Aug. 7. A6
 
A Texas man was indicted on new charges that he lied about his knowledge of the activities of Osama bin laden, the Saudi exile suspected in the embassy bombings. A6
 
Fight Terror, Clinton Tells U.N.
President Clinton told world leaders in a speech to the United Nations General Assembly that the fight against terrorism was "at the top of the U.S. agenda" and proposed steps for better international cooperation to prevent and punish attacks. A12
 
President Mohammed Khatami of Iran tried to woo a United Nations audience with talk of how freedom-loving and law-abiding Iran is and asked for help in resolving a crisis in neighboring Afghanistan. A12
 
Iran's Foreign Minister did not show up for a conference on Afghanistan attended by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright. He was represented by a deputy. The meeting had been expected to be the first high-level contact in two decades between Iran and the United States. A12
 
Japan's Prime Minister, Keizo Obuchi, blamed his predecessor; the Finance Ministry, and the heads of the country's huge financial institutions for wasting years before the country began to deal with the the crippling banking crisis and a deep recession that is worsening the world's economic turmoil. A13
 
Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain urged a revamping of the way the world's financial institutions deal with global economic turmoil and said the procedures of the I.M.F. and the World Bank had to be updated. A13
 
Reassurances From Russia
Russia's leaders offered more assurances that the country's fiscal crisis could be tamed without provoking high inflation or social unrest. But with key positions in the Government still unfilled, few people seemed to put much weight in the promises. A3
 
Pressure for Kosovo Peace
The United States and NATO allies stepped up pressure on President Slobodan Milosevic of Yugoslavia to end his military crackdown against separatists in Kosovo, as officials in Washington and Europe warned that the worsening plight of refugees in the province was increasing the possibility of NATO intervention. A3
 
Malaysia Tries to End Protests
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia acted to quell the biggest show of dissent he has faced during 17 years in office. Riot police fired tear gas and water cannons to disperse thousands of people protesting the arrest of his former deputy. A11
 
NATIONAL A15-26; B1-8
 
Tape of Clinton Testimony Is Broadcast to the Nation
A videotape of President Clinton's testimony to the grand jury on Aug. 17 was broadcast to the nation as a centerpiece in his possible impeachment trial. Mr. Clinton appeared alternately argumentative and contrite, furious and crestfallen as he dueled with prosecutors over accusations of perjury in the White House scandal. The videotape and thousands of pages of additional material were released by the House Judiciary Committee. The President's testimony filled much of a 3,183-page book instantly put on sale. A1
 
Monica S. Lewinsky told grand jurors that she had been in love with Mr. Clinton until he went on television and told the world that their involvement was purely sexual, according to testimony made public by Congress. And where, she wondered, was his apology to her? Ms. Lewinsky also told grand jurors that "no one ever asked me to lie, and I was never promised a job for my silence." A19
 
The testimony of Mr. Clinton's friend Vernon E. Jordan Jr.; the President's secretary, Betty Currie, and the deputy White House counsel, Bruce R. Lindsey, and others was not made public and was being reviewed by members of Congress. A19
 
While one Bill Clinton was televised, from videotape, grinding through hours of tag-team questioning about the Lewinsky matter, another Bill Clinton, was shown, live, striding into the vast, half-domed hall of the United Nations to rally the world to a crusade against terrorism. A17
 
NASA's Russian Rescue Plan
NASA, worried that trouble in Moscow could ultimately threaten the American space program, wants to spend up to $660 million over five years to bail out its Russian partner in building a planned international space station, agency officials said. Key members of Congress faulted the proposal as too expensive. A1
 
Storm Strikes Puerto Rico
Hurricane Georges caused extensive damage in Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands. Much of Puerto Rico lost electric power and water service. A22
 
Du Pont Relative Is Accused
The police in Delaware have accused Christopher L. Moseley, the stepfather of a du Pont heir, Dean S. MacGuigan, of arranging the killing of Mr. MacGuigan's girlfriend. A22
 
A Home for Dreamworks
The fledgling movie studio Dreamworks SKG and a real estate development company backed by New York investment houses reached an agreement for the studio to build its new home in a coastal development near Los Angeles. A24
 
U.S.-Canada Trade Tensions
Farmers and ranchers blocked southbound truckers at the United States-Canada border in Montana to protest Federal agriculture and trade policies. In North Dakota and South Dakota, officials stopped trucks carrying cargo for inspections. A26
 
NEW YORK/REGION D1-7
 
Deaths Prompt Concern For Jail Health Care System
Some Correction Board officials, present and former doctors on Rikers Island and health experts say the death of an inmate from apparent liver failure, as well as the deaths of three other inmates, raises concerns for health care in jails since a managed care system was begun. A1
 
Beating Declared Bias Attack
Law enforcement officials said a 19-year-old man who was beaten in Queens on Sunday had been singled out because he is Indian. D1
 
Meter Skimming Is Charged
The official in charge of collecting quarters from New York City's 65,000 parking meters was arrested on Saturday and accused of taking as many as 14,400 quarters -- $3,600 -- from parking meter proceeds. D1
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-8
 
ARTS E1-12
 
HEALTH F7
 
Warding Off Stroke
A study found that men whose diets included large amounts of potassium -- which is plentiful in bananas, tomatoes, spinach and other fruits and vegetables -- had one-third fewer strokes than those who did not. F7
 
SPORTS D9-15
 
OBITUARIES C23
 
Florence Griffith Joyner
A winner of three gold medals at the 1988 Summer Olympics who revolutionized women's sprinting with her searing speed and flamboyant fashion sense, she was 38. C23
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-22
 
Technology Leads the Way
Stocks weathered a sharp selloff in Europe and finished modestly higher, led by strong gains among bellwether technology issues. The Dow closed up 37.59 points, at 7,933.25. The Nasdaq was up 16.66, at 1,680.43, and the S.& P. 500 rose 3.80, to 1,023.89. C1
 
Japan Deal Shaky
A plan to help stabilize Japan's financial system and begin to restore international confidence in that nation's economy began to fray. C1
 
Air Alliance vs. Air Alliance
British Airways, American Airlines and three other carriers announced a marketing linkup to one spearheaded by Lufthansa and United Airlines. C2
 
Business Digest C1
 
FASHION A28
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: The shrinking power of lies; Japan's paralysis; new respect for foster parents; Ripken finally sits one out.
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis.
 
Chess F6
 
Public Lives D2
 
Crossword E12
 
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); RECESSION (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); INDICTMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); REFUGEES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); BANK FAILURES (64%); RIOTS (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); MURDER (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998



600 of 848 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: N.Y.U. Relishes Visit From Clinton on High-Profile Day

BYLINE: By SUSAN SACHS 

 BODY:
L. Jay Oliva, the president of New York University, likes to describe the school as a reflection of the city: a world compressed into a village that is at once neighborly, multicultural and second to none when it comes to self-promotion.
"I firmly believe that if you're doing something interesting, you ought to tell people about it," Dr. Oliva said. "And if you're blowing your own horn, do it loudly. There's no sense giving it a little toot." 
 The scrappy university, always looking to raise its profile in the intensely competitive world of higher education, made some big noise yesterday.
The N.Y.U. School of Law played host to President Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton, as well as other stars of the political and academic worlds, at a forum on globalization just as the President's videotaped testimony before the Starr grand jury was released to the public on network and cable television.
Some university officials had worried that the latest disclosure from the independent counsel's investigation might upstage what the law school called its "megasummit," which was beamed by satellite to 20 universities around the country and in Europe and simultaneously shown live over the N.Y.U. Web site.
But having Mr. Clinton and the First Lady on campus at a time when dozens of American and foreign journalists were on hand to scrutinize their every move, exchange and reaction, turned out to be a happy convergence of events for the university. The place was packed, monied alumni were in great abundance, and Mr. Clinton joined such political figures as Prime Ministers Tony Blair of Britain and Romano Prodi of Italy in expressing effusive thanks for having been invited.
"This is literally a unique moment on this extraordinary day," responded John Sexton, the dean of the law school, who had conceived of and organized the high-profile event.
Dr. Sexton, who described himself as "the P. T. Barnum of legal education," said the forum, which was called Strengthening Democracy in the Global Economy, was meant to showcase what the school calls its global law school initiative.
The global law program was created five years ago, he said, and incorporated into the traditional N.Y.U. Law School to infuse the school with an international outlook that takes into account the increasing globalization of political and economic institutions.
In the beginning, Dr. Sexton said, his colleagues at other schools teased him that he was dean of "the first intergallactic law school."
But by hiring top foreign legal experts from the Middle East, Asia and Europe, and revamping the way some law subjects are taught, he said, New York University's law school has become a pioneer.
"It's now clear we went to a place where the rest of legal education is going to strive to be 5 or 10 years from now," Dr. Sexton said.
He added that the daylong forum, which featured three panel discussions on civil society, economics and democracy, "is a visible manifestation" of what the law school has been doing on a less glittery scale.
Dr. Oliva, the N.Y.U. president, said that the university had begun organizing the forum less than two months ago, and that from the start, it was to revolve around the Clintons.
Life around Washington Square, across from the law school, came to a standstill for the day. The western half of the square was closed, several Greenwich Village streets were closed to traffic and the streets around the law school were clogged with enormous vans that held the digital production equipment needed to broadcast the forum by satellite.
Several students who had won a lottery for seats to watch the forum on closed-circuit television in the law school said they had the technical advantage of seeing President Clinton twice -- and in any order they wished. The forum was beamed into dormitory rooms and student centers on the university network, while the presidential testimony was available on commercial television.
"I watched the Clinton videotape on TV all morning," said Jasmine Campirides, a third-year student who attended a panel session to see the President. "And I have a VCR so I taped the first panel from the forum so I can watch it at home later."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY N Y U SCHOOL OF LAW (79%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY N Y U SCHOOL OF LAW (79%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LEGAL EDUCATION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); LAWYERS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TESTIMONY (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); WITNESSES (68%); GRAND JURY (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); JOURNALISM (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); 

PERSON: SACHS, SUSAN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); PRODI, ROMANO (PRIME MIN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%); ROMANO PRODI (58%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998

 
