

201 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: Worry Over Housing Market Offsets Oil Price Cut

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market ended the week close to where it started, as concern over inflation and weakening housing prices offset the salutary effects of a drop in the price of oil. 
 Stocks of major home builders like Lennar, Pulte Homes, D. R. Horton, Centex, Toll Brothers and KB Home continued a decline that has already brought them down more than 20 percent for the year. Lennar said on Friday that its profit fell in its fiscal third quarter, the first quarterly decline in six years.
But the price of oil fell sharply, to $66.25 a barrel in futures trading in New York, its lowest level since April. The one-week decline was more than 4 percent. 
 General Motors shares gained 9.5 percent during the week, best among the Dow industrials.
 For the week, the Dow dropped 72.04 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 11,392.11. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 12.09 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 1,298.92. 
 The Nasdaq composite index lost 27.37 points, or 1.2 percent, to close at 2,165.79.
 In the bond market, the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.77 percent from 4.72 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.ChevronNYSE: CVXThe oil company and two partners announced a major oil discovery 175 miles offshore in the Gulf of Mexico. The find -- 3 billion to 15 billion barrels -- could potentially raise United States oil reserves by 50 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $64.22WEEK'S CHANGE: -- 0.94%EST. '06 P/E: 7.97Hovnanian EnterprisesNYSE: HOVThe builder said third-quarter profit fell 34 percent as the housing market softened. Prices of single-family homes fell in 87 of 379 metropolitan areas in the second quarter, the government said.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $26.17WEEK'S CHANGE: -- 1.80%EST. '06 P/E: 5.10IntelNMM: INTCThe chip maker said it would eliminate 10,500 jobs -- about 10 percent of its work force -- through layoffs, attrition and the sale of underperforming business groups in an effort to save $3 billion a year by 2008.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $19.45WEEK'S CHANGE: -- 2.16%EST. '06 P/E: 24.53Ford MotorNYSE: FThe automaker named Alan R. Mulally, a top executive of the Boeing Company, to succeed William Clay Ford Jr. as chief executive. Ford is in the process of cutting 30,000 jobs in an effort to return to profitability.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $8.77WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.05%EST. '06 P/E: --Aspen TechnologyNMM: AZPNThe software provider said it would restate earnings back to 2002 because of accounting errors related to stock option grants. The company also named a new chief financial officer.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $10.76WEEK'S CHANGE: -- 9.73%EST. '06 P/E: 27.04Boston ScientificNYSE: BSXThe medical device maker said an internal analysis had confirmed that patients using its drug-coated cardiac stent had an increased risk of blood clots. Stents are used to keep previously clogged arteries open.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $16.67WEEK'S CHANGE: -- 4.03%EST. '06 P/E: 17.87New Oriental EducationNYSE: EDUShares of the company, a provider of foreign language instruction in China, rose 47 percent in the first day of trading after an initial public offering raised $112.5 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $21.65WEEK'S CHANGE: -- %EST. '06 P/E: --ViacomNYSE: VIATom Freston was ousted as chief executive of the company by Sumner M. Redstone, its chairman. Viacom shares have lagged amid fears that advertisers will leave its cable networks for the Internet.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $34.55WEEK'S CHANGE: -- 6.52%EST. '06 P/E: 17.48(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); FUTURES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: KB HOME CORP (58%); PULTEGROUP INC (58%); D R HORTON INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (58%); PHM (NYSE) (58%); DHI (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: SUMNER REDSTONE (59%); ALAN MULALLY (59%) Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



202 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; WHEELSPIN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Sunshine, Salt and Speed: The Fastest Show on Earth

BYLINE: By LINDSAY BROOKE

DATELINE: BONNEVILLE SALT FLATS, Utah 

 BODY:
BOOMING past the last mile marker of a ruler-straight course on this ancient lake bed, traveling at more than 400 miles an hour, Al Teague pulled the parachute release lever to slow his streamliner, simultaneously fulfilling the final request of a hot-rodding buddy.
 On that day four years ago, tucked within the folds of cloth, were the ashes of Gray Baskerville, a champion of all things associated with the Salt Flats. Baskerville, a writer for Hot Rod magazine, had died in February 2002 at age 66.
''It was exactly what Gray would have wanted,'' said Mr. Teague, holder of a speed record with the Spirit of '76, a low-slung dart of a car engineered for nothing but top-speed trials. ''I got the feeling that my high speed would have made him happy.''
 To those who have been touched by Bonneville's high-speed mystique, neither Baskerville's career-long devotion to this eerily flat expanse, nor Mr. Teague's homage, would be a surprise. The 3,000-square-mile salt plain 120 miles west of Salt Lake City, bisected by Interstate 80, is one of the few places on earth suited to driving vehicles as fast as they can go. 
 The great bleach-white expanse is what remains of an enormous inland sea that evaporated 14,000 years ago. Since the 1930's its fragile surface -- and the thin atmosphere at the 4,200-foot elevation, which saps engine power -- has challenged the speediest cars, trucks and motorcycles. 
 Still, drivers return each August seeking records at ever-greater velocities. ''If you like making cars go fast, this place is addictive,'' said Ed Iskenderian, a hot-rodding pioneer who first attended Bonneville contests in 1950 and continues to make the annual pilgrimage.
 Nearly 500 entrants gathered here last month for Speed Week, one of the few times of the year when the salt is used to establish official records. The 2006 turnout was the biggest ever, drawing vehicles ranging from prewar Fords to diminutive ''lakesters'' with bodies shaped like the fuel tanks once seen under the wings of fighter planes. There were 50's Studebakers stretched like taffy to cheat the wind, and everything from Toyota econoboxes to Corvette-powered Porsches to ground-scraping motorcycles testing their engines against electronic timers. Even a Ferrari F40 turned out. 
 More than 150 records were set in dozens of classes, encompassing every imaginable combination of vehicle and engine, from tiny 50-cc motorbikes to a mammoth Freightliner truck powered by a 4,000-horsepower V-16 diesel said to have begun life in a tugboat. This improbable rig, lowered and modified unlike anything one might see on the Interstate, is a perennial favorite, thundering down the salt at more than 220 m.p.h.
 The streamliner class is a showcase of the swiftest machines on wheels. This year's star was the Dieselmax streamliner entered by JCB, a British maker of construction equipment. Powered by a pair of heavily modified four-cylinder diesel engines from the company's backhoes, the 29-foot-long projectile was driven by Andy Green, holder of the absolute land-speed record in a jet-powered car at 763 m.p.h. (set in Nevada, alas, not at Bonneville). 
 Mr. Green, a Royal Air Force wing commander, is a superstar in the community. Overcoming five days of technical gremlins that kept speeds below 230 m.p.h., the JCB car finally set a record of 350.092 m.p.h. to become the world's fastest diesel vehicle (or, as many kidded, the fastest backhoe). 
 Diesel was not the only alternative fuel at Bonneville this year. Mark Dickens, a General Motors engineer, set several class records driving Chevrolet Cobalt SS coupes; one (reaching 156 m.p.h.) was the first to be powered by an E85 ethanol blend. 
 The best combination of salt surface and weather in 10 years created excellent race conditions and helped pack the entry list, said Buddy James, a longtime starting line steward. But with so many vehicles queued up to run on the two courses -- a three-mile straightaway for machines capable of up to 175 m.p.h. and a five-mile course for the fastest -- cars waited hours for their next chance. Even those in line at 7 a.m. when each day's action began might make just two runs before the courses closed at 5 p.m. 
 Official Bonneville records are determined by averaging two runs, as supervised by the Southern California Timing Association, which organizes Speed Week and operates the electronic timers. Once a vehicle makes a qualifying run that tops the existing record, it is impounded until the next morning's record run.
 For most of the tanned-and-wrinkled regulars -- as well as what seemed to be an infusion of fresh blood in hot imports -- creeping slowly to the starting line under the scorching sun is simply part of the routine.
 A strong grass-roots ethic and amateur-racing spirit underpin Speed Week and the few other events held at Bonneville. Competitors routinely lend a hand to one another, along with advice and tools. 
 ''Bonneville is more than a hobby to many of these racers; it's their life,'' said Louise Ann Noeth, a Salt Flats historian and former professional drag racer known universally as Landspeed Louise. ''They return because money and marketing have not yet put their stamp on the salt.'' 
 The Flats' amateur racers can be mildly contemptuous of professional record efforts. Participation by big companies, including efforts this year by G.M. and JCB (which had two huge tractor-trailers in its pit area), attract the most scorn.
 ''Sometimes we might resent the money the factory teams spend for their projects, because we don't have those funds,'' said Mr. Teague, whose 409.978 m.p.h. attained in 1991 is still the international record for wheel-driven vehicles powered by a single piston engine. 
 ''They have engineers and aerodynamicists,'' Mr. Teague said. ''We do our work in our garages after work.''
 Land-speed racing demands other commitments. The first challenge is transportation. Taking a rental car onto the corrosive salt risks stiff added charges from agencies in Utah and Nevada, who now carefully examine the cars' undersides and interiors when they are returned. There is only one car wash in the nearest town, Wendover, Utah, which sits hard against the state line.
 Those who have been to Speed Week have learned it is impossible to keep a car free of salt, which permeates every crevice of the body. To eliminate obvious traces, spectators have spent three hours and $20 in quarters at a do-it-yourself car wash. It helps somewhat to wipe the salt off your shoes with a towel before getting in the car.
 Once on the Flats, there are no fixed structures providing the comforts of traditional racetracks -- no pit garages, no grandstands, no food pavilions for spectators. Even the timing tower and portable toilets are trucked in and out by the S.C.T.A.
 Racers prepare their vehicles under tent shelters erected next to vans and campers. Staying hydrated is part of the Salt Flats survival ritual. 
 The salt itself is a survivor. Decades of potash mining over the last century began depleting the salt base. But recent efforts by the local salt industry, under pressure from the S.C.T.A. and the racers, have helped stabilize the thin crust, which can be less than an inch thick in places.
 Bonneville has a profound effect on everyone who competes here.
 ''My team and I were utterly humbled by our experience,'' said Tim Leverton, chief engineer of the JCB Dieselmax team. ''You cannot arrive here and simply expect to go fast. You have to learn the salt -- and listen to the Bonneville speed community, who know more about it than anybody.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: JCB streamliner, above, set a land speed record for diesels at 350 m.p.h., after getting a push start, left. Salt racers favor variations on traditional shapes like the seriously streamlined Studebaker, below. The fastest car this year, at 410 m.p.h., was the Burkland family's streamliner, below left.
 A Ford Highboy roadster on the salt, where speed records exist to be broken. (Photographs by Lindsay Brooke for The New York Times [roadster, Studebaker] and Louise Ann Noeth [streamliners].)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (77%); AUTO RACING (76%); WRITERS (71%) Automobile Racing; Bonneville Salt Flats; Records and Achievements

PERSON: Lindsay Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (55%) UTAH, USA (79%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



203 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Nissan Versa; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: Another David Wielding a Slingshot 

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
AS high fuel prices have put lumbering S.U.V.'s on the ropes, nimble bantamweight automobiles -- practically invisible for a decade or more -- are suddenly crawling into the ring, itching for a fight.
 Earlier this year, the Honda Fit and Toyota Yaris made a convincing case that today's small cars could advance some big ideas. The 2007 Nissan Versa is the latest contender to step up, joining two Korean cousins, the redesigned Hyundai Accent and the Kia Rio. Chevrolet is rolling out a revamped Aveo, also from South Korea. A step up in price and prestige, a redesigned Mini Cooper is on the way. In 2008, a tiny Smart from Mercedes-Benz will roll onto American shores.
Are Americans, who have long embraced a bigger-is-better approach to their personal transportation, ready to hug these smaller, friendlier cars?
 The prospects seem pretty good, according to J. D. Power & Associates, the market-research company. ''It's irrefutable that the segment is doing well,'' said Tom Libby, senior director for industry analysis at an affiliate, the Power Information Network. For instance, sales of compact basic cars -- which include, among others, the Aveo, Fit, Versa and Yaris -- jumped 118 percent last month compared with August 2005. 
 I compared the Fit and Yaris last spring and concluded that the Fit was the better all-around package in terms of functionality and driving dynamics, although it was also the more expensive car.
 This summer, the Versa landed as a four-door hatchback, filling a spot vacated when the Nissan Sentra moved up in size and price. A Versa sedan is due to go on sale early next year.
 Like the Fit and the Yaris, the Versa aims to be diminutive without being punitive. It comes in two trim levels, the S and SL, with the least expensive model starting at $13,165 (all prices include the $615 destination charge). 
 I tested a preproduction version of the 1.8 SL, the top-of-the-line model, which started at $16,165 with a continuously variable transmission. My test car came to $17,415 with the convenience package ($700), audio package ($300) and antilock brakes ($250). On all of these small vehicles, options can quickly raise the sticker price.
 This is the first Nissan in America to be built on architecture jointly developed with Renault, which controls Nissan, and the Versa's styling has strong hints of Renault as well. The Versa shares its mechanical platform with the Renault Modus and Clio; the Japanese-market Nissan Cube also uses this subcompact B-class foundation. The Versa is known as the Tiida in most of the world.
 While the Versa is configured much like the Fit, which also rides on a B-class platform, the Versa is almost a foot longer. The added length is especially notable in the back seat, where the Versa has 38 inches of legroom, beating the Fit by more than 4 inches. 
 A new compact rear suspension pushes parts off to the side, a design that provides a generous 17.8 cubic feet of cargo space behind the rear seats. Still, the Fit does better, with 21.3 cubic feet, even while casting a smaller shadow.
 But with the rear seats down, the longer, wider Versa has the biggest cargo area: 50.4 cubic feet, compared with 41.9 for the Fit and only 25.7 for the Yaris.
 Still, for a vehicle whose very name is intended to evoke an image of versa-tility, the Versa isn't nearly as flexible as the Honda Fit. The Fit's seats flip, flop and dive to form four distinct configurations. In one mode, the rear seats fold into the floor to form a very low, completely flat cargo hold.
 Although the Versa's rear seatbacks fold flat, the seats don't go into the floor like the Fit's. As a result, the storage in the rear ends up being lower than the area just behind the front seats, creating a two-zone compartment. All in all, the arrangement is rather clunky. 
 The Versa is not just larger than these competitors, it is heavier -- outweighing my Yaris test car by 400 pounds and the Fit by 170. It should be no surprise, then, that its gas mileage isn't as good. 
 On a trip from Nashville to Cleveland, I averaged 31.8 miles per gallon on one segment and 30.1 on the other. My driving included highway travel slightly above the speed limit, along with some enthusiastic sprints on hilly two-lane roads in southern Ohio. With the continuously variable transmission, the Versa is officially rated at 30 m.p.g. in town and 36 on the highway. 
 Earlier, I had averaged 37.4 m.p.g. in the Yaris and 35.5 in the Fit in two days of spirited driving out West.
 The Versa's interior generally has a high-quality feel, with attractive, tightly woven upholstery. Padding and soft materials cushion high touch areas like the armrests and door trim. But like many other automakers, Nissan has trouble making black dashboards look rich. The beige interior looks much better.
 The 1.8-liter engine is new, delivering class-leading horsepower (122) and torque (127 foot-pounds). It is paired with a redesigned continuously variable transmission.
 The engine ran fairly quietly during my 600-mile drive except for times when I insisted on more than modest acceleration. Then it would give out a moan that might have indicated dismay or the joyous unleashing of its innermost mechanical passion. (I never figured out which.) The car droned around 1,500 r.p.m. under light acceleration.
 A six-speed manual is also available. This month, a four-speed automatic will be offered as a stopgap measure because the supplier of the continuously variable transmissions cannot deliver all the units Nissan needs for the Versa and the Sentra.
 To compensate for jarring American roads, Nissan has made some suspension changes from the European model. For a small car, the Versa rides quite comfortably.
 In southern Ohio, we left the interstate for playtime on the Appalachian Highway (Ohio Route 32). On wide, sweeping turns, I found the electric power steering to be linear and predictable, but on Route 327 out of Londonderry, where turns became tighter -- more of an L shape than a C -- the Versa posed a challenge to my confidence.
 The problem was its initial tippy-feeling body lean on entering a turn. But I found that the body settled down pretty quickly, the leaning ended and it was possible to proceed quickly and confidently. Still, the body lean meant that transitions from a tight turn to another in the opposite direction were not as quick as I would have liked.
 For me, the Fit remains the champ when it comes to driving dynamics, including steering response.
 In addition to its larger engine, the Versa offers upscale options not available from Honda or Toyota: a sunroof, Bluetooth hands-free phone system with wireless connections and a smart key with a sensor that unlocks the car as you approach it. You can also get satellite radio, with a choice of XM or Sirius.
 Six air bags are standard on all Versas (including side curtain and side impact bags), and the Nissan's front seats have active head restraints, which move forward in a rear-impact crash to protect against whiplash injuries.
 Have American attitudes changed enough that small cars like the Versa can make it here? Automakers and market research firms expect sales to grow, although projections vary. Still, the Fit and Yaris seem to be off to a good start. The Versa, with more rear legroom and cargo space, offers a significantly different choice.
 And it makes another powerful argument in favor of downsizing.

INSIDE TRACK: Pint-size punch.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Versa, built on a platform shared with Renault, is a foot longer than Honda's Fit.Chart: ''Small Cars With Four Doors'' lists features and specifications for selected four door vehicles. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (72%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (67%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (50%) Automobiles; Reviews

COMPANY: REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (85%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Nissan Motor Co

TICKER: RNO (PAR) (85%); RNO (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: Cheryl Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



204 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com. 


State of Connecticut

Hartford Commission on Human Rights and Opportunities. Thursday at 2 p.m. Commission Headquarters, 21 Grand Street. (860) 541-3400.
Hartford Public hearing on proposed changes to inland fisheries regulations. Thursday at 6:30 p.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3474.
Hartford State Implementation Plan Revision Advisory Committee. Thursday at 9 a.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. chris.nelson@po.state.ct.us.
Hartford Arts Committee of the Connecticut Commission on Culture and Tourism. Monday at 11:30 a.m. One Financial Plaza, 755 Main Street. (860) 256-2732.
Hartford Informational session on the digital media and motion picture tax credit, sponsored by the Connecticut Commission on Culture and Tourism. Thursday at 8:30 a.m. The Bushnell, 166 Capitol Avenue. (860) 256-2752.
Old Lyme Public meeting on the Connecticut Coastal Management Program. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Department of Environmental Protection, Marine Headquarters, 333 Ferry Road. (301) 713-3155, ext. 101.

Fairfield County

Bethel Board of Finance. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501.
Bethel Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Clifford J. Hurgin Municipal Center, 1 School Street. (203) 794-8501.
Danbury Zoning Board of Appeals. Thursday at 7 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.
Darien Board of Assessment Appeals. Thursday at 6 p.m. Darien Town Hall, 2 Renshaw Road. (203) 656-7300.
Greenwich Parks and Recreation Committee. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Greenwich Town Hall, 101 Field Point Road. (203) 622-7700.
Redding Planning Commission. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Redding Town Hall, 100 Hill Road. (203) 938-2002.
Ridgefield Zoning Board of Appeals. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Ridgefield Town Hall, 400 Main Street. (203) 431-2700.

Hartford County

New Britain Landlord and tenant law workshop. Wednesday at 7 p.m. New Britain Public Library, 20 High Street. (860) 224-3155.
Simsbury Economic Development Commission. Thursday at 7:30 a.m. Simsbury City Hall, 933 Hopmeadow Street. (860) 658-3200.

Litchfield County

Barkhamsted Board of Selectmen. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285.
New Milford Parks and Recreation Commission. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Richmond Center, 40 Main Street. (860) 355-6050.
Plymouth Human Services Commission. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Plymouth Historical Society, 572 Main Street. (860) 585-7040.
Salisbury Conservation Commission. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Salisbury Town Hall, 27 Main Street. (860) 435-5182.
Woodbury Board of Selectmen. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Shove Building, 281 Main Street South. (203) 263-2144.

Middlesex County

Haddam Board of Finance. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Haddam Town Hall, 30 Park Field Drive. (860) 345-8531.
Portland Board of Selectmen. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Portland Library, 20 Freestone Avenue. (860) 342-6770.

New Haven County

Milford Historic District Commission public hearing. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Milford City Hall, 70 West River Street. (203) 783-3210.
Woodbridge Board of Selectmen. Wednesday at 6 p.m. Woodbridge Town Hall, 11 Meeting House Lane. (203) 389-3400.

New London County

Groton Representative town meeting. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Groton Senior Center, 102 Newtown Road. (860) 441-6640.
Groton Board of Education. Monday at 7 p.m. Groton Town Hall Annex, 134 Groton Long Point Road. (860) 441-6640.
Montville Town Council. Monday at 7 p.m. Montville Town Hall, 310 Norwich-New London Turnpike. (860) 848-3030, ext. 311.
Montville Public Works Committee. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Montville Town Hall, 310 Norwich-New London Turnpike. (860) 848-3030,
 ext. 311. 

Tolland County

Stafford Town budget referendum. Wednesday from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. Stafford Public Library, 10 Levinthal Run. (860) 684-1765.
Willington Board of Education. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Willington Town Hall, 40 Old Farms Road. (860) 487-3121.

Windham County

Ashford Board of Finance. Thursday at 7 p.m. Ashford Town Office Building, 5 Town Hall Road. (860) 487-4401.
Woodstock Recreation Commission. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. Woodstock Town Hall, 415 Route 169. (860) 928-6595.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ZONING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (88%); CITIES (86%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (75%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); FISHERIES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); FISHING LAW (70%); TAX LAW (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); TAX ASSESSORS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



205 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Enter The House Of Wal-Mart

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
WHAT may turn out to have been the most significant runway show to be staged during the latest edition of Fashion Week had no celebrity front row, was created mostly by anonymous designers, generated little industry buzz and took place on a rooftop above Times Square before the official Olympus Fashion Week had even begun. 
 Defying the convention of showing next year's clothing now, Wal-Mart's Rock the Runway event on Thursday presented 27 outfits appropriate to the current season and with a top retail price of $98.94, for a leather jacket. 
New York still makes legitimate claim to the title of fashion's capital, an assertion borne out by the 200 or more shows that will be staged here through Friday in warehouses, theaters, clubs, deconsecrated synagogues, boutiques and, of course, the Bryant Park tents. 
 But the realities of the marketplace increasingly suggest that the role the city plays in fashion may be quietly shifting from creative incubator to stage set for marketing hype. Now that Seventh Avenue has effectively relocated to Sri Lanka or Romania and fashion information is communicated virally, the notion of runway shows pitched to what one industry executive calls ''the elite 500'' will soon come to seem archaic and quaint.
 ''Not everyone is in New York,'' said Karen Stuckey, a senior vice president of Wal-Mart, whose 3,256 American stores are visited each week by a number of consumers roughly equivalent to one-third the population of the United States. ''Fashion is not just for a chosen few who have front-row seats in some elite tent somewhere.'' 
 Regardless of how rural or remote a consumer's habitat is, ''fashion has become a common thread through music and television and Hollywood,'' Ms. Stuckey added. What a Wal-Mart show in Times Square signals, she said, is ''the democratization of fashion,'' a shift away from the concerns of the 15 people for whom Olivier Theyskens is a household name to those of Americans like Joanna, the young pop singer hired by Wal-Mart to sing her current hit on the rooftop at Times Square Studios. 
 ''I come from a blue-collar family,'' said Joanna, who grew up as Joanna Pacitti in a row house in Philadelphia, where her father owns a barbershop. Pausing for a moment after she had belted out ''Let It Slide,'' against a backdrop of neon billboards advertising Coca-Cola, GMC and Geico, Ms. Pacitti said, ''Wal-Mart clothes are relatable to me.'' 
 Is it surprising that they were also creditably fashionable? It is not. Taking its cue from H&M, Zara and Topshop, European chains that boast of being able to translate and merchandise runway trends for a mass audience, with production times that are often less than 40 days, the Wal-Mart show offered striped hoodies, denim swing skirts, squashed boots, leggings, fitted skirts and cropped jackets that were highly reminiscent of clothes by editorial darlings like Proenza Schouler or Roland Mouret. 
 ''Fashion no longer takes nine months, 12 months to be picked up by the fashion embracer,'' Ms. Stuckey said. It seems safe to predict that it will take far less when the fashion in question is offered at retail prices averaging $30. 
 The low cost of Wal-Mart's clothes reflects another telling dissonance between the extravagant stuff that tends to excite press and buyers throughout Fashion Week and the essential truth of the American economy.
 A giddy survey appearing in the Daily Mini, a glossy giveaway handed out at the Bryant Park tents, asks readers to check off boxes indicating their favorite stores from among a list that runs almost exclusively to high-end retailers like Barneys New York, Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus. The base line for suggested home values, in the Daily Mini survey, is $500,000. ''Do you own any of the following luxury cars?'' asks the questionnaire, which goes on to list Cadillacs, Jaguars, Hummers and even Ferraris. Needless to say, there is not a Ford Taurus in sight. 
 This is not to suggest that the Taurus customer has gone unnoticed by fashion and not merely by the market populists at Wal-Mart. ''What we believe is that we have millions in our stores every day that have been underserved,'' Ms. Stuckey said.
 What seems increasingly clear is that the industry overall is looking with a lot more affection at those underserved consumers; fully a third of American households will receive a free copy of the one-off Fashion Rocks magazine that Conde Nast published to coincide with its big Fashion Week benefit concert.
 Like Wal-Mart's modest presentation, the Miss Sixty show at the Guggenheim Museum on upper Fifth Avenue was pitched at a consumer whose cohort is more Hilary Duff than Hilary Swank. Unlike the Wal-Mart show, the Miss Sixty presentation featured all the moment's top models and a stylist whose efforts are more typically put to use by houses like Prada.
 But beneath the superficial cool of teen-girl braids and belts worn outside of belt loops, the Miss Sixty show was much like Wal-Mart's, both in terms of design and intention. Founded in 1989 by Wichy Hassan and Renato Rossi, Sixty SpA now operates 300 single brand stores and is sold at 7,000 other stores in 90 countries. 
 ''We look at what happens in the high end of the market,'' said Mario Pace, the marketing director for the Sixty group, which projects sales for its brands -- which include Miss Sixty, Energie, Killah and RefrigiWear -- of one billion dollars in the next two years. ''We all know the luxury story, but we're coming from a much more democratic world,'' he said. ''There is this whole tier out there that's not being covered. We want to be in that tier, because it's huge.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HIGH FASHION -- Wal-Mart struts its stuff atop Times Square while Joanna sings. (Photo by Elizabeth Lippman for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 GROUP SHOW -- Models assemble at the Miss Sixty show at the Guggenheim Museum, one of Fashion Week's many locations in New York. (Photo by Rahav Segev for The New York Times)(pg. 15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION SHOWS (91%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); THEATER (78%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (77%); POP & ROCK (76%); RETAILERS (76%); RELOCATIONS (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (67%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (62%) Apparel; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (58%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: Guy Trebay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SRI LANKA (75%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



206 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN TACTICS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: For the Heartbeat of Harlem, a New Amen Chorus

BYLINE: By STEVEN KURUTZ

 BODY:
AT midnight on the evening of Thursday, Aug. 31, WLIB-AM, one of the city's most storied radio stations and one that for years broadcast from the fabled Hotel Theresa in Harlem, ushered in a new era.
 A staff member cued up a rousing hymn called ''High Praise,'' and with the push of a button, WLIB was now ''Your praise and inspiration station,'' playing gospel music round the clock.
Until that moment, and for the previous two and a half years, the station had been the home of Air America, the liberal talk-radio network. For the previous decade, the station had broadcast Caribbean music. 
 Radio stations switch formats all the time. But for a station like WLIB, long regarded as the ''Voice of Harlem,'' moving forward takes place in the shadow of a long and illustrious past. With its lively call-in shows that gave voice to the concerns of the Harlem community, WLIB spoke to and for black New Yorkers. The format change, first reported by The Amsterdam News, has made many avid listeners remember what this heartbeat of black life once was. 
 ''Switching to gospel, I can't be against that, of course,'' said the Rev. Herbert Daughtry, a veteran civil rights advocate and preacher at the House of the Lord Church in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, who used to telephone WLIB to report news of interest to the station's listeners, like reports of police brutality. ''We surely need the Gospel. But knowing how vital it was, I feel we are missing something.'' 
 In 1971, WLIB became the city's first black-owned radio station, and the crown jewel of Inner City Broadcasting Corporation. A co-founder of Inner City was Percy Sutton, a former Manhattan borough president and long one of the city's most powerful black leaders. 
 Perhaps paradoxically, the new gospel format is in keeping with the station's history; WLIB played gospel in the 1950's and 60's. Even so, the new format has received a tepid response from community leaders who, like Mr. Daughtry, say that the community needs a black-talk format.
 ''We don't really have a format right now for information on social, political and economic change in Harlem,'' said Councilwoman Inez Dickens, who represents Harlem.
 According to Deon Levingston, the station's general manager, and Vinny Brown, the operations manager, the station will reintroduce talk shows at some point but will remain music-intensive. The station, which now operates out of an office at Park Avenue and 34th Street, broke ties with Air America when WLIB could not reach an agreement on the terms of a renewal of Air America's lease, according to representatives of the station and Air America. 
 ''We saw the move to gospel as a way to keep viable programming,'' Mr. Levingston said. ''Our goal is to serve the community, and you can't do that if you can't keep your lights on.'' 
 The gospel format, he said, was in keeping with WLIB's history and meshed well with the soul format of its sister station, WBLS-FM. A return to the old talk show format, he added, would not have been financially viable, especially in what is one of the nation's most competitive radio markets. WLIB has an average audience of 24,900 listeners at any given 15-minute period, according to the station's ratings report for the spring of this year. 
 When WLIB was broadcasting Air America, a popular talk show, ''Mindflight,'' whose host was a D.J., Gary Byrd, was broadcast in the wee hours; and on weekends, the station broadcast boisterous public affairs shows, like the Rev. Al Sharpton's ''Sharp Talk.'' With the switch to all gospel, both programs are off the air, at least temporarily.
 At its peak, WLIB represented, as Mr. Daughtry put it, ''the heartbeat and the drumbeat'' of New York's black community. Its era began in 1949, when two brothers, Morris and Harry Novik, purchased the station from The New York Post. As general manager, Harry Novik jettisoned the station's classical-music format, replacing it with rhythm-and-blues and gospel music and community affairs programs aimed at black audiences. It was during this period that the station moved to the Hotel Theresa. 
 In the following years, WLIB broadcast live from conferences of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and staged music festivals at the Savoy Ballroom in Harlem. By 1967, the station dedicated seven and a half hours each weekday to gospel and rhythm and blues. 
 The most popular program was a call-in show, ''Community Opinion,'' moderated by Leon Lewis, the station's program director. During the turbulent 60's, the station's airwaves crackled as black listeners shared heated opinions on subjects like the civil rights struggle, the Vietnam War and the crushing poverty in the nation's ghettos, Harlem chief among them. When the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated in April 1968, WLIB interrupted its regular programming and served as a public bereavement forum for grieving callers. 
 ITS political role continued into the 1980's and the early 90's. 
 ''I may get up in the morning and get a call that someone in the community had been killed,'' Mr. Daughtry said. ''I could pick up the phone to WLIB, and the word went out.''
 Other radio programs focus on local issues and have a call-in segment, but to WLIB fans, the station offered something more. ''Folks want to hear a concentrated discussion of what's going on in the hood,'' said Bill Perkins, a lifelong Harlemite, former councilman and now a Democratic candidate for the State Senate. ''What's going on in the City Council as it relates to the hood? How do we look at Iraq from the view of the hood? On these other shows, you might hear that incidentally, but it's not the mission.'' 
 On the streets of Harlem the other day, the consensus among WLIB listeners seemed to favor gospel over talk. 
 ''Gospel is good every day, all day long,'' said a white-haired man named Alfred Solomon, who was standing on 125th Street. 
 Was he worried about the absence from the airwaves of a black talk station?
 ''What are they going to talk about?'' Mr. Solomon replied. ''That's been going on for years and it hasn't accomplished anything. We need gospel music that can do something for the spirit.'' 

Radio Days

November 1926
The predecessor of WLIB, called WBKN, signs on from a studio on Pitkin Avenue in Brownsville, Brooklyn, the fi rst of several homes throughout the city.

1930's -1940's
The station has varied and changing offerings, including the city's fi rst program in Chinese. Eventually, it becomes known as ''The Voice of the Negro Community.''

April 1968
When the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is assassinated, WLIB opens the airwaves to angry and bereaved callers, helping, in the opinion of many, to prevent rioting in the city.

1969
As the black power movement gains strength, the Black Panthers are the host of their own program, ''The People's Information Slot.''

October 1970
WLIB goes off the air for several days during a labor dispute that involves the fi ring of an employee and picketing by station workers.

July 1971
WLIB becomes the city's fi rst black-owned radio station when it is bought by a consortium that includes Percy Sutton, the former Manhattan borough president.


GRAPHIC: Photos: TAKING THE PULSE -- Malcolm X, above left, being interviewed by George S. Schuyler in 1964
the Rev. Al Sharpton and Dick Gregory, above right, on air in 1997
and former Mayor David N. Dinkins, left, announcing he would not run for mayor that year. (Photos by Hulton-Deutsch Collection/Corbis
below left, Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times
 above right, Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (92%); RADIO FORMATS (89%); MUSIC (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIBERAL MEDIA (78%); MUSIC GENRES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (52%) Radio; Blacks

COMPANY: INNER CITY BROADCASTING CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: Wlib (NYC Radio Station)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (50%) Steven Kurutz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (78%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



207 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 2756 words

HEADLINE: 10 Ways to Avoid the Next 9/11 

 BODY:
If we are fortunate, we will open our newspapers this morning knowing that there have been no major terrorist attacks on American soil in nearly five years. Did we just get lucky? 
 The Op-Ed page asked 10 people with experience in security and counterterrorism to answer the following question: What is one major reason the United States has not suffered a major attack since 2001, and what is the one thing you would recommend the nation do in order to avoid attacks in the future?

Giving Muslims Hope
 THE best news in our struggle against terrorism is that we have not been hit at home since the 9/11 attacks. Yet terrorists are patient. We remain a target and must expect another attack.
Our most important long-term recommendations involve foreign policy. First, preventing terrorists from gaining access to nuclear weapons, especially by stepping up efforts to secure loose nuclear materials abroad, must be our highest priority. 
 Second, the long-term challenge is for America to stop the radicalization of young Muslims from Jakarta to London by serving as a source of opportunity, not despair. Too many young Muslims are without jobs or hope, are angry with their governments, and don't like the war in Iraq or American foreign policy. 
 We should cultivate educational and cultural exchanges, and vigorous public diplomacy. We must offer moral leadership, treating all people -- including detainees -- with respect for the rule of law and human decency. And we must put forward an agenda of opportunity for the Islamic world. This includes support for pragmatic political reform, as well as education and economic empowerment. -- THOMAS H. KEAN and LEE H. HAMILTON, the co-chairmen of the 9/11 commission and co-authors of ''Without Precedent.''

We Can't Kill an Ideology
 THOUGH it may not be immediately apparent to the casual viewer, Al Qaeda is attacking when and where it chooses. It is an ideology-driven global insurgency on the march. It has not hit America because it has chosen not to. Whether it lacks on-the-ground capacity for a spectacular attack, is still in the planning stages or is busy elsewhere is under debate within our intelligence community. The point is that five years out, Al Qaeda is as dangerous as, if not more than, it was on 9/11.
 Yes, our intelligence agencies have struck the terrorist group hard, detaining or killing many of its founding leaders. But these are not death blows -- because you cannot decapitate an ideology. Although the majority of Muslims reject the political vision of a Taliban-style Islamic caliphate, many agree with Al Qaeda that the Western-imposed political order is the source of their political and economic woes. Moreover, militant resistance to the current order is gaining acceptance and prestige, aptly demonstrated by the groundswell of popular support for Hamas and Hezbollah in the Muslim world.
 During the last five years, our priority has been to beef up defenses and take the war to the terrorists. It's time to start discrediting Al Qaeda's ideology and offering Muslims nonviolent alternatives. The first step is to acknowledge that their grievances are legitimate and center on issues of dignity, economic disparity, border disputes and power alignment. The second is to acknowledge that our current approach is only helping Al Qaeda go mainstream. -- MELISSA BOYLE MAHLE, a former C.I.A. operations officer and the author of ''Denial and Deception: An Insider's View of the C.I.A. from Iran-Contra to 9/11.''

How War Can Bring Peace
 OFFENSIVE action abroad has protected the homeland. Our military presence in Afghanistan and our aggressive policies around the globe have seriously disrupted the enemy. Through a mix of military and paramilitary action, pre-emptive strikes, deterrent threats and surveillance we have captured many terrorist leaders, destroyed training camps and structures of communication and control, and uncovered valuable intelligence troves.
 Some maintain that such offensive action feeds resentment and spawns more terrorism. But if aggression can create resentment, passivity and defensiveness can inspire contempt. Our weak responses to Qaeda attacks on the Khobar Towers, the African embassies and the destroyer Cole, and our withdrawal from Somalia, emboldened the enemy and allowed it to organize and train for the 9/11 attacks. 
 Going forward, we should more vigorously embrace technology as a tool for taking the fight to the Islamic terrorists. The same technological changes that help terrorists plot to deliver weapons of mass destruction, including low-cost information and communication over the Internet, also make it easier for the government to monitor and pre-empt terrorist plots. Libertarians overreact to the new technology, stoking fears of an Orwellian surveillance state. But properly designed programs can produce large gains in security in return for small losses of privacy and liberty. -- JACK L. GOLDSMITH and ADRIAN VERMEULE, Harvard law professors and, respectively, an assistant attorney general from 2003 to 2004 and a co-author of the forthcoming ''Terror in the Balance.'' 

Less Political Correctness
THE reason we have not been attacked on American soil is that the war started by radical Muslims is not against the United States, but against everyone who does not conform to their beliefs and way of life. It is the first global war we have experienced since globalization became a factor in our life, and the terrorist battlefield has included Madrid, London, Bali, Moscow, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and India. The terrorists have had a very busy five years.
 The struggle imposed on us is, by nature, a long-term struggle. Only an effective homeland security system will provide us with the necessary political power to prevail in those instances where the terrorists do find value in attacking within the United States. In that sense, we must be less politically correct, and begin a program that looks for risks where they are most likely to be found. For example, it is crucial to identify high-risk airline passengers through all criteria -- including appearance and behavior -- and spend more resources on them, rather than maintaining an across-the-board, politically correct low level of search. -- RAFI RON, a security consultant and the former head of security at Ben-Gurion Airport in Tel Aviv.

Keep American Muslims on Our Side
 SINCE 9/11, terrorism has increased significantly around the globe, but the United States has been spared. Eurasia rather than America has been the main source and victim. Why? 
 Increased awareness and surveillance have made a strike as sophisticated as the 9/11 attacks far more difficult to achieve, especially without local support. Unlike their counterparts in Britain, for example, few of America's Muslims at least for now subscribe to the notion that Western governments or their proxies are deliberately hurting and humiliating Muslims and that the way to restore dignity is to join a jihad. Moreover, terrorist strategists like Ayman al-Zawahri have warned that while smaller strikes serve as training opportunities for their fighters, major strikes can backfire; attacking the wrong people at the wrong time would reduce the popularity of their movement.
 The jihadists understand that they are fighting a war of ideas. According to ''The Management of Savagery,'' a Qaeda manual, the success of the movement will ultimately depend on the jihadists' ability to damage America's prestige throughout the globe, sow discord between America and its allies and expose the hollowness of American values. The manual prescribes a strategy of forcing America ''to abandon its war against Islam by proxy'' by provoking it into direct military confrontation with a Muslim country. When the United States attacked Iraq, it inadvertently ''expanded the jihadi current'' just as Osama bin Laden's strategists had hoped.
 Every foreign-policy decision entails tradeoffs in regard to terrorism, especially with respect to the spread of the jihadist idea. Attacking the wrong people at the wrong time can backfire, just as Al Qaeda's strategists say. Let's not make that mistake again. -- JESSICA STERN, a former National Security Council staff member and the author of ''Terror in the Name of God.'' 

What Really Scares Us
ANOTHER attempt on the scale of the 2001 attacks hasn't been necessary. The last one is still doing the trick, and the terrorists' resources are limited. The fear induced by terrorism mirrors the irrational psychology that makes state lotteries an utterly reliable form of stupidity tax. A huge statistical asymmetry serves as fulcrum for a spectral yet powerful lever: apprehension of the next jackpot. We're terrorized not by the actual explosion, which statistically we're almost never present for, but by our apprehension of the next one.
 The terrorist tactic that matters most is the next one used, one we haven't seen yet. In order to know it, we must know the terrorists. Without a national security policy that concentrates on the vigorous and politically agnostic maximization of intelligence rather than, in the phrase of the security expert Bruce Schneier, ''security theater,'' that may well prove impossible. 
 -- WILLIAM GIBSON, novelist.

Walking the Terror Beat
 THE most important counterterrorism activity since the fall of the Taliban has been the close cooperation of the C.I.A. with foreign intelligence services. 
 Powerful American technologies identify names, locations, phone numbers and computer addresses of suspicious people. Local intelligence services operate informant networks. The C.I.A. station chief works with intelligence officials to follow up and coordinate hundreds of leads generated by these joint collection efforts. The connections often cross national boundaries, and periodically they ''connect the dots,'' identify a key terrorist and have the local services execute a nighttime raid against a terrorist safe house.
 Such coordinated efforts have led to the captures of key Qaeda operatives including Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the 9/11 mastermind; Hambali, the planner of the Bali bombings; and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, who oversaw the attack on the Navy destroyer Cole. With midlevel leaders like these out of commission, terrorist operations have been left to less capable local operatives. As a result, the Qaeda movement has been limited to only two successful operations in the West in the past five years, in Madrid and London. 
 To prevent the next attack in the United States we need a similar coordinated intelligence effort at home. In New York City, the F.B.I. and Police Department share this responsibility. And although they do not always love each other, they find ways to work together. The Police Department brings grit, creativity and street smarts to the investigative programs. The F.B.I. connects local efforts with information from national and international intelligence databases. Other cities should emulate their example. -- MICHAEL A. SHEEHAN, former deputy commissioner for counterterrorism for the New York City Police Department.

The President's Plan
 AS a result of the horror of Sept. 11, 2001, President Bush has transformed the way we fight terrorism and the tools we use. We successfully attack those very things our enemies need to operate and survive: leadership, communications, the ability to travel, weapons; foot soldiers and financing. The president has strengthened and transformed the intelligence community, integrated our military and intelligence assets, and broken down the barriers that kept domestic law enforcement and intelligence agencies from sharing information. 
 The United States has enhanced relationships with allies around the world, recognizing that this is truly a global war on terrorism. Working together, we have denied Al Qaeda the safe havens and resources it needs to plan and carry out attacks and made it more difficult for our enemies to travel. We use their communications against them and have cut off their money. 
 At home, the president has transformed the fight by creating the Department of Homeland Security and by ensuring that the F.B.I. had the necessary tools, like the Patriot Act, to get the job done. The airline bombing plot disrupted by our British allies this summer is only the most recent case of brutal terrorists continuing to plan mass murder. We must be right 100 percent of the time; the terrorists have to succeed only once. On Sept. 11, 2001, each of us became soldiers in this fight to protect freedom. We're in a war we didn't ask for, but it's a war we must wage and a war we will win. -- FRANCES FRAGOS TOWNSEND, White House homeland security adviser.

Don't Forget Our Values
 THE 9/11 attacks were a defining moment for the course of world politics and a strategic assault against the world's leading power at the beginning of the 21st century. But the question is, were the terrorists successful? The answer is mixed. In the aftermath of 9/11, the world was united with America. Even in Arab and Muslim countries, the sense of shock and feelings of solidarity with America far outweighed any sympathies with the terrorists. 
 Since then, international counterterrorism cooperation has disrupted the terrorists' activities. Yet even public awareness of the threat, counterterrorism cooperation, and more stringent anti-terrorism laws in democratic societies around the globe couldn't prevent the bombings in Madrid, London and Istanbul.
 Immediately after 9/11, Al Qaeda seemed to be losing its battle with America and the West. Unfortunately, that changed when America invaded Iraq. The fight against the jihadists will not be decided simply on the battlefield; it will also be decided in the sphere of international legitimacy. We know that Islamic extremists celebrate death through martyrdom, and the killing of innocents. But what are we in the West fighting for?
 We fight for our values: for our freedom, for democracy, for the rule of law, the equality of all human beings and for peace. In this context, Guantanamo Bay, Abu Ghraib and the situation in Iraq could hardly be called successes. Against the new totalitarian challenge of Islamic extremism, we have to defend our values; and this means sticking to the values of our democratic societies, even under fire. -- JOSCHKA FISCHER, the foreign minister of Germany from 1998 to 2005 and a visiting professor at Princeton's Woodrow Wilson School.

Qaeda Set the Bar High
So why haven't we been attacked in five years? Terrorists -- especially those directed by or affiliated with Al Qaeda -- are committed to carrying out spectacular attacks that maximize death, injury, economic damage and political symbolism. If their aim were merely to blow up the odd bus or to level a supermarket, doing so would be a very short order. But, the more spectacular the scale of a plot, the longer it takes to plan, the costlier it is to finance, the more operatives you need to carry it out, and the greater the chance that something will go awry.
 For the future, we must take a hard look at how to improve the Department of Homeland Security, which has earned its reputation as the most dysfunctional agency in all of government. It has played little role in keeping us safe since 9/11. 
 One need look no further than the recently foiled London jetliner plot. The department had nothing to do with uncovering the plot; that was primarily the work of British counterterrorism agencies. If not for their efforts, it would very likely have succeeded. This is because we still lack defenses against liquid explosives, although the Transportation Security Administration, part of the department, has been aware of this particular vulnerability for years and claims that its principal focus nowadays is on detecting explosives. 
 If after spending some $20 billion on securing the nation's airways since 9/11 we are still vulnerable in the skies, one shudders to think how much more vulnerable our seaports, land borders, mass transit systems, chemical plants and ''soft targets'' like shopping malls and sports arenas are to terrorist attack.
 The good news, then, is that we are unlikely to see many future attempts to strike our homeland. The bad news is that the few we will see are likely to be giant in scale, and the likelihood that the Department of Homeland Security will be able to stop them is small. -- CLARK KENT ERVIN, the inspector general of the Department of Homeland Security from 2003 to 2004 and author of ''Open Target.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michael Bierut)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TALIBAN (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); WRITERS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%) Terrorism; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC)

PERSON: Thomas H Kean; Lee H Hamilton; Melissa Boyle Mahle; Jack L (Prof) Goldsmith; Adrian (Prof) Vermeule; Rafi Ron; William Gibson; Jessica Stern; Joschka Fischer; Clark Kent Ervin; Michael A Sheehan; Frances Fragos Townsend

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



208 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: Investing In Human Futures

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Imagine a classroom of first graders. Now imagine we could get every kid in that classroom to graduate from college, and that we could get every kid in every classroom to graduate from college. Don't you think that's the most important thing we could do to make America a richer and fairer place?
 Some people, actually, don't think that. Some people don't think wage stagnation is mainly about education and skills. They think the economy is so broken, the Republican Party so malevolent and all-controlling, that almost all the gains would go to the top 5 percent or 1 percent anyway. 
I may be a sucker, but I think they're wrong.
 I may be a sucker, but I doubt we can achieve broad-based social mobility unless workers possess the skills that a global economy now rewards. I may be a sucker, but I suspect the most important thing we can do to increase social mobility is to come up with second-generation human capital policies.
 The first-generation policies gave people access to schools, colleges and training facilities. The second-generation policies will help them develop the habits, knowledge and mental traits they need to succeed once they are there.
 That means, first, strengthening the family, the nuclear core of human capital formation. Ramesh Ponnuru of National Review points out that investments in human capital are overtaxed. He suggests raising the child tax credit to $5,000. That would be part of a plan to lighten the tax burden on families while they are raising kids and shift it to when they are done. It would enable more parents to stay home if they wanted and invest more in those crucial early years.
 Second, it means strengthening marriage. Only half of American kids can expect to live with both biological parents at age 15 (compared with two-thirds of kids in Western Europe). That has calamitous effects on education and development. There are many cultural ways to strengthen marriage, but financially, the government could extend the earned income tax credit to single males. That would not only induce more young men to enter the labor force, it would also make them more marriageable.
 Third, it means encouraging people to think about the future. Senator Jeff Sessions has a proposal (similar to a program earlier supported by Senators Santorum and Schumer, and others) that would give every child $1,000 at birth for a savings account, which could then be built up over a lifetime. Among other things, that sort of asset building awakens a sense of future possibilities.
 Fourth, children from disorganized homes need quality preschool. As a mountain of research has shown, children who have not developed mental traits like self-control by age 3 are much less likely to exercise them later on. Their prospects are permanently diminished. 
 Fifth, schools need to be tailored to the way children actually are. Different human beings have radically different learning styles. So long as diverse individuals are forced to sit in the same classroom and endure uniform teaching techniques, they'll underperform. It doesn't matter whether the school is public, charter or administered by Martians. 
 I'm hinting at an agenda that is socially conservative and economically progressive, because when it comes to building human capital, the two go hand in hand. To pay for this stuff, I'd trail along behind Sebastian Mallaby of The Washington Post: Cut the mortgage interest deduction so it doesn't subsidize people who want million-dollar homes, and reform the savings and health insurance tax incentives that subsidize rich people to do things they'd do anyway. I'd also keep the inheritance tax (I don't want a bunch of spoiled heirs starting lefty foundations).
 When you ask free-market purists about wage stagnation, they either deny it's a problem or brag about how Republicans have increased disposable income by reducing the tax burden. When you ask orthodox liberals about wage stagnation, they never tell you exactly what they would do to counteract the epic forces of globalization and technological change, but they seem to imply they can restructure the economy with the right trade, minimum-wage and union rules to create middle-class wealth.
 But this debate is not going to be won either by the free-market fatalists or by the angry but amorphous populists. It'll be won by the human capital reformers, the alliance of progressive conservatives and conservative progressives (like the Clintonites) who believe that the market fundamentally works and that social mobility requires what it has always required, skill and effort. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TAX LAW (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); FAMILY (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (69%); INCOME TAX (64%) Colleges and Universities

PERSON: JEFF SESSIONS (55%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



209 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan and Terrorism

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''The Wrong Battle in Pakistan'' (editorial, Sept. 3): 
 Pakistan joined the coalition to fight terrorism because of its own conviction and vital national interest. We have killed or captured more than 680 foreign Al Qaeda terrorists. We have banned all organizations that were suspected of involvement in terrorism.
 The Taliban insurgency is mainly within Afghanistan. Pakistan has deployed 90,000 troops -- three times as many as fielded in Afghanistan -- to interdict Al Qaeda and Taliban movement across the border. But we host 2.6 million Afghan refugees, some sympathetic to the Taliban. 
 Through a comprehensive military, political and economic strategy, Pakistan is succeeding in the endeavor to end support for the Taliban in our frontier regions. Exerting undue pressure on Pakistan to ''do more'' is unnecessary and likely to be counterproductive.
 You do not mention Pakistan's larger reality: a democratic country, regular elections, a free press, empowered women and minorities, a vibrant economy (growing at 7 percent) that has doubled output and incomes over five years, significant and profitable foreign investment and an overwhelmingly moderate and tolerant, even if conservative, Muslim population.
 The American media should be doing more to support Pakistan's economic and social success, rather than playing the blame game.

Mansoor Suhail
Minister (Press)
Pakistan Mission to the U.N.
New York, Sept. 7, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TALIBAN (91%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); REFUGEES (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%) United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: Mansoor Suhail

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Pakistan

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



210 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Whatever Happened to the America of 9/12?

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
THE most famous picture nobody's ever seen'' is how the Associated Press photographer Richard Drew has referred to his photo of an unidentified World Trade Center victim hurtling to his death on 9/11. It appeared in some newspapers, including this one, on 9/12 but was soon shelved. ''In the most photographed and videotaped day in the history of the world,'' Tom Junod later wrote in Esquire, ''the images of people jumping were the only images that became, by consensus, taboo.'' 
 Five years later, Mr. Drew's ''falling man'' remains a horrific artifact of the day that was supposed to change everything and did not. But there's another taboo 9/11 photo, about life rather than death, that is equally shocking in its way, so much so that Thomas Hoepker of Magnum Photos kept it under wraps for four years. Mr. Hoepker's picture can now be found in David Friend's compelling new 9/11 book, ''Watching the World Change,'' or on the book's Web site, watchingtheworldchange.com. It shows five young friends on the waterfront in Brooklyn, taking what seems to be a lunch or bike-riding break, enjoying the radiant late-summer sun and chatting away as cascades of smoke engulf Lower Manhattan in the background.
Mr. Hoepker found his subjects troubling. ''They were totally relaxed like any normal afternoon,'' he told Mr. Friend. ''It's possible they lost people and cared, but they were not stirred by it.'' The photographer withheld the picture from publication because ''we didn't need to see that, then.'' He feared ''it would stir the wrong emotions.'' But ''over time, with perspective,'' he discovered, ''it grew in importance.''
 Seen from the perspective of 9/11's fifth anniversary, Mr. Hoepker's photo is prescient as well as important -- a snapshot of history soon to come. What he caught was this: Traumatic as the attack on America was, 9/11 would recede quickly for many. This is a country that likes to move on, and fast. The young people in Mr. Hoepker's photo aren't necessarily callous. They're just American. In the five years since the attacks, the ability of Americans to dust themselves off and keep going explains both what's gone right and what's gone wrong on our path to the divided and dispirited state the nation finds itself in today.
 What's gone right: the terrorists failed to break America's back. The ''new'' normal lasted about 10 minutes, except at airport check-ins. The economy, for all its dips and inequities and runaway debt, was not destroyed. The culture, for better and worse, survived intact. It took only four days for television networks to restore commercials to grim news programming. Some two weeks after that Rudy Giuliani ritualistically welcomed laughter back to American living rooms by giving his on-camera imprimatur to ''Saturday Night Live.'' Before 9/11, Americans feasted on reality programs, nonstop coverage of child abductions and sex scandals. Five years later, they still do. The day that changed everything didn't make Americans change the channel, unless it was from ''Fear Factor'' to ''American Idol'' or from Pamela Anderson to Paris Hilton.
 For those directly affected by the terrorists' attacks, this resilience can be hard to accept. In New York, far more than elsewhere, a political correctness about 9/11 is still strictly enforced. We bridle when the mayor of New Orleans calls ground zero ''a hole in the ground'' (even though, sadly, he spoke the truth). We complain that Hollywood movies about 9/11 are ''too soon,'' even as ''United 93'' and ''World Trade Center'' came and went with no controversy at multiplexes in middle America. The Freedom Tower and (now kaput) International Freedom Center generated so much political rancor that in New York freedom has become just another word for a lofty architectural project soon to be scrapped. 
 The price of all New York's 9/11 P.C. is obvious: the 16 acres of ground zero are about the only ones that have missed out on the city's roaring post-attack comeback. But the rest of the country is less invested. For tourists -- and maybe for natives, too -- the hole in the ground is a more pungent memorial than any grandiose official edifice. You can still see the naked wound where it has not healed and remember (sort of) what the savage attack was about.
 But even as we celebrate this resilience, it too comes at a price. The companion American trait to resilience is forgetfulness. What we've forgotten too quickly is the outpouring of affection and unity that swelled against all odds in the wake of Al Qaeda's act of mass murder. If you were in New York then, you saw it in the streets, and not just at ground zero, where countless thousands of good Samaritans joined the official responders and caregivers to help, at the cost of their own health. You saw it as New Yorkers of every kind gathered around the spontaneous shrines to the fallen and the missing at police and fire stations, at churches and in parks, to lend solace or a hand. This good feeling quickly spread to Capitol Hill, to red states where New York had once been Sodom incarnate and to the world, the third world included, where America was a nearly uniform object of sympathy and grief.
 At the National Cathedral prayer service on Sept. 14, 2001, President Bush found just the apt phrase to describe this phenomenon: ''Today we feel what Franklin Roosevelt called 'the warm courage of national unity.' This is the unity of every faith and every background. It has joined together political parties in both houses of Congress.'' What's more, he added, ''this unity against terror is now extending across the world.''
 The destruction of that unity, both in this nation and in the world, is as much a cause for mourning on the fifth anniversary as the attack itself. As we can't forget the dead of 9/11, we can't forget how the only good thing that came out of that horror, that unity, was smothered in its cradle.
 When F.D.R. used the phrase ''the warm courage of national unity,'' it was at his first inaugural, in 1933, as the country reeled from the Great Depression. It is deeply moving to read that speech today. In its most famous line, Roosevelt asserted his ''firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself -- nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.'' Another passage is worth recalling, too: ''We now realize as we have never realized before our interdependence on each other; that we cannot merely take but we must give as well; that if we are to go forward, we must move as a trained and loyal army willing to sacrifice for the good of a common discipline, because without such discipline no progress is made, no leadership becomes effective.'' 
 What followed under Roosevelt's leadership is one of history's most salutary stories. Americans responded to his twin entreaties -- to renounce fear and to sacrifice for the common good -- with a force that turned back economic calamity and ultimately an axis of brutal enemies abroad. What followed Mr. Bush's speech at the National Cathedral, we know all too well, is another story.
 On the very next day after that convocation, Mr. Bush was asked at a press conference ''how much of a sacrifice'' ordinary Americans would ''be expected to make in their daily lives, in their daily routines.'' His answer: ''Our hope, of course, is that they make no sacrifice whatsoever.'' He, too, wanted to move on -- to ''see life return to normal in America,'' as he put it -- but toward partisan goals stealthily tailored to his political allies rather than the nearly 90 percent of the country that, according to polls, was rallying around him. 
 This selfish agenda was there from the very start. As we now know from many firsthand accounts, a cadre from Mr. Bush's war cabinet was already busily hyping nonexistent links between Iraq and the Qaeda attacks. The presidential press secretary, Ari Fleischer, condemned Bill Maher's irreverent comic response to 9/11 by reminding ''all Americans that they need to watch what they say, watch what they do.'' Fear itself -- the fear that ''paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance,'' as F.D.R. had it -- was already being wielded as a weapon against Americans by their own government. 
 Less than a month after 9/11, the president was making good on his promise of ''no sacrifice whatsoever.'' Speaking in Washington about how it was ''the time to be wise'' and ''the time to act,'' he declared, ''We need for there to be more tax cuts.'' Before long the G.O.P. would be selling 9/11 photos of the president on Air Force One to campaign donors and the White House would be featuring flag-draped remains of the 9/11 dead in political ads.
 And so here we are five years later. Fearmongering remains unceasing. So do tax cuts. So does the war against a country that did not attack us on 9/11. We have moved on, but no one can argue that we have moved ahead.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Blitt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOJOURNALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); HIJACKING (65%); AIRLINES (60%) Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Terrorism

PERSON: FRANK RICH (59%) Frank Rich; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



211 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 65 words

HEADLINE: SEPT. 11, 5 YEARS LATER

 BODY:

9/11's Phantom Successors
So far, there have been no more terrorist strikes in the United States. Is the reason vigilance and counterterrorism strategy, or were threats exaggerated? WEEK IN REVIEW

The Life of Lower Manhattan
What was, is and will be downtown, including what Mayor Bloomberg really wants for Lower Manhattan, badly damaged psychologically and economically on 9/11. MAGAZINE 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (84%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



212 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: Michigan's Big Cut in Property Taxes, And the Lessons It Has for New Jersey

BYLINE: By RICHARD G. JONES

DATELINE: KALAMAZOO, Mich. 

 BODY:
Ray Wilson's drastically reduced property taxes are the stuff of dreams in New Jersey.
 Almost overnight, the bill for Mr. Wilson's Greek Revival farmhouse dropped in 1993 from $1,608.03 to $696.58, a reduction of almost 60 percent. ''I've been pretty satisfied,'' he said wryly.
Unfortunately for New Jerseyans, Mr. Wilson's circa-1880's home is in Kalamazoo County, Mich. But the way Michigan cut its property taxes -- sharply, but not without problems -- could serve as both an inspiration and a cautionary tale for New Jersey legislators, who have convened a special session to consider strategies to rein in the highest property tax rate in the nation.
 In 1993, Mr. Wilson and thousands of other Michigan residents were on the verge of a tax revolt when state legislators proposed a radical suggestion to ease the burdensome taxes, at the time the seventh highest in the nation. Since education costs are the main reason for property tax increases, they asked, why not find a different source of financing for public education? 
 ''People were really just frustrated,'' Mr. Wilson said. ''Schools would go to the public with a big sob story: 'You've got to increase our taxes for the children.' Finally, they put something together.''
 What Michigan lawmakers put together was a plan -- approved by nearly three-quarters of the voters in a referendum in 1994 -- that called for money generated by the state's sales tax to pay for public education. It also capped the level of yearly property tax increases at 5 percent.
 As a result, the average annual property tax bill in Michigan is about $2,000 less today than it would be otherwise.
 ''I think that New Jersey now is exactly like Michigan back then -- taxes were the lightning rod,'' said Don Gilmer, a former Republican state representative who helped draft the proposal.
 Some elements resembling parts of Michigan's solution have already been suggested in Trenton. For instance, at the start of the special legislative session, Gov. Jon S. Corzine proposed a cap of 4 percent on the annual increase in property tax rates. In many towns, the rate has climbed nearly twice that in one year. And while legislators have also discussed reducing the state's reliance on property taxes to pay for public schools -- last year, $10.8 billion, or 55 percent, of the state's $19.6 billion property tax levy was used for education -- no legislator has at this point suggested a change as drastic as the one in Michigan.
 Perhaps the most audacious idea so far, which got a lukewarm response from lawmakers, came from a Democratic assemblyman in Hudson County, who proposed cutting property tax bills by an average of $1,250 by paying for some school costs with an income tax surcharge. 
 But Michigan legislators involved in drafting the proposed changes say that states like New Jersey seeking to lower their property tax rates may find a significant source of revenue in the sales tax.
 Mr. Gilmer, the former Michigan legislator, offered this suggestion to his counterparts in Trenton: ''Don't set the expectation that this'' -- using sales taxes instead of property taxes to pay for schools -- ''is the perfect plan. We came up with something that's served us well.''
 And Michigan's solution has not been trouble-free. Because the state's schools rely on sales taxes, which vary according to factors like the unemployment rate and consumer spending, the amount of money raised is now less stable than it was.
 Indeed, since Michigan adopted the change, the state has routinely filled shortfalls in school financing through sales tax revenue with one-shot payments from the state's general fund that have recurred, and have amounted to roughly a half-billion dollars annually.
 Critics also ask whether the system can adequately serve Michigan's urban districts that typically have a higher proportion of students in more costly special education programs.
 Moreover, the political climate in New Jersey, with its relatively high sales tax and per-pupil spending levels, could make Michigan's solution unappealing in Trenton.
 A significant part of Michigan's plan was a 2 percent increase in the sales tax, to 6 percent from 4 percent. Although Mr. Corzine has asked legislators to think creatively on the property tax question, he almost certainly does not want to take the political risk of another request to raise the sales tax after the problems that led to a shutdown in July. 
 The Legislature may also be unwilling to support another tax increase before elections in November 2007.
 Asked about Governor Corzine's opinion of Michigan's plan, his press secretary, Anthony Coley, said, ''We encourage the Legislature to examine ways to make sure all of New Jersey's children, regardless of ZIP code, receive the education they need and deserve.''
 Even if the governor and the Legislature had the will to raise the sales tax, there may be little practical benefit in doing so. Some say that the sales tax cannot go much higher without discouraging business and shopping. 
 ''The first problem you have is that our sales tax in New Jersey is already 7 percent, and you don't have the kind of room you need to get the money,'' said State Senator Gerald S. Cardinale, a Republican who represents Bergen County and is a leading voice in the Legislature on fiscal policy matters. ''A tax shift is a very, very difficult thing.''
 Mr. Cardinale, who says that the Michigan plan is unworkable in New Jersey, said that another factor is the disparity in per-student spending. In 2003, New Jersey had the nation's fourth-highest spending rate at $11,103; Michigan, which spends $8,315 per student, was 14th. 
 If spending in each of New Jersey's school districts were added up, the total would exceed $20 billion. Property taxes cover about half that amount, $10.8 billion. But the sales tax generates only about $8 billion.
 ''It's a heavy lift to fund schools from nonproperty tax sources,'' said Henry A. Coleman, a professor of public policy at Rutgers University. ''I don't think that eliminating the property tax from primary and secondary education is doable, or desirable, in New Jersey.''
 One reason for that is the way the state relies -- critics say over-relies -- on those taxes, which municipalities use to cover local services like schools and fire and police departments. Although the state is responsible for education, local governments collect property taxes. New Jersey counts on those taxes for about 45 percent of its total tax revenue; nationally, the number is closer to 30 percent.
 Still, Mr. Coleman said that Michigan's experience should motivate New Jersey legislators to be creative in finding ways to cut property taxes.
 Lawmakers have been charged by Mr. Corzine to come up with ways to reduce property taxes by the end of the year. Four legislative committees -- examining school financing, government consolidation, public workers' benefits and possible changes to the state's Constitution -- have been holding rare summer hearings weekly in Trenton.
 Those are scheduled to continue until October, when the Legislature hopes to draft bills that can begin to reduce the state's tax burden. 
 Mr. Coleman said that the Legislature can generate money by taking steps like expanding the scope of the sales tax to cover things like legal fees, bail bonds and air charter services.
 Other potential money-raisers include raising the income tax in some brackets and increasing the state's reliance on fees and surcharges.
 ''The only limit is our imagination,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''We need to look a bit more intently at what they're doing in other states. Michigan took a radical step. While I wouldn't necessarily advocate that step for New Jersey, there may be a reasonable balance.''
 Some of the legislators involved in drafting Michigan's changes said they sought that same kind of balance, although it did not necessarily begin in an ideal way. 
 In the summer of 1993, the Legislature -- in a bitter debate over school financing -- voted to eliminate property taxes as the source of money for education without having another system in place.
 Observers say the move was political gamesmanship intended to undermine Gov. John M. Engler, a Republican, who had campaigned on a promise of lowering property taxes.
 After initially resisting the move, Mr. Engler encouraged Republicans, who held a 22-16 edge in the Senate, to support the plan. 
 While legislators were wrestling with the problem, Michigan residents like Mr. Wilson were girding for a tax revolt. 
 But before the revolt could take hold, legislators drafted the legislation to change the financing and put it on the ballot in March 1994. 
 ''From the point of view of tax policy, it solved a problem that, as in New Jersey, was longstanding for taxpayers and delivered as promised,'' said David N. Plank, a professor of education at Michigan State University.
 But could what works for Michigan succeed in New Jersey?
 ''There's no right answer because of the nature of the situation,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''You know the old saying, 'Don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good.' We can improve the situation even if we can't make it perfect.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 12, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about lessons for New Jersey in the tax law changes that Michigan adopted in 1994 to lighten its rising property tax burden misstated the amount by which the sales tax increased. It rose to 6 percent from 4 percent -- an increase of 2 percentage points, not 2 percent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ray Wilson pays about 60 percent less in property taxes since Michigan changed its tax laws. (Photo by Adam Bird for the New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); REFERENDUMS (86%); SALES TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CHILDREN (76%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); APPROVALS (68%) Taxation; Sales Tax; Property Taxes; Education and Schools; Law and Legislation; Referendums; Taxation; Roads and Traffic; Motorcycles, Motor Bikes and Motorscooters; Accidents and Safety; Drunken and Reckless Driving

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%) Richard G Jones

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) New Jersey; Michigan; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



213 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Saving Both Money and Energy

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
HOMEOWNERS who are tired of worrying about high utility bills, or who want to minimize their homes' effect on the environment, are turning to an often overlooked type of loan for relief. 
 So-called Energy Efficient Mortgages, which were introduced in the 1980's to help existing owners and prospective buyers pay for energy-saving home improvements, have gained more attention recently, even as mortgage activity has slumped as interest rates have risen.
''We've seen a tremendous increase in interest in these over the past year,'' said Joel Wiese, the manager of the Indigo Financial Group, a mortgage broker in Lansing, Mich. ''More people are becoming concerned about the energy performance of their homes.'' 
 There are a few flavors of Energy Efficient Mortgages, or E.E.M.'s. The one most widely available to mortgage applicants, industry executives said, is Fannie Mae's product, which is offered by many big lenders. 
 With Fannie Mae's Energy Efficient Mortgage, which is sometimes referred to as the ''conventional E.E.M.,'' homeowners can spend up to 15 percent of the appraised value of the home on energy improvements and thereby qualify for a loan that is 15 percent greater than they would have received under normal underwriting conditions. Lenders also guarantee that the appraised value of the home will increase by the amount the borrower spends on those improvements, which typically include insulation, new windows and efficient heating and cooling systems. 
 To qualify, homeowners must submit the house or their construction plans to an energy audit, arranged by the prospective lender. The lender will then use the audit to determine which energy improvements will save more money than they cost.
 For instance, if a homeowner plans to increase his mortgage by $10,000 for energy improvements, that would add roughly $60 per month to his loan payment (assuming a 30-year fixed mortgage at 6 percent). 
 If the lender's energy audit determines that those improvements would save $60 or more a month, the loan would be approved. 
 In most cases, Mr. Wiese said, the savings are considerably greater. The average Energy Efficient Mortgage loan recipient, he said, spends $10,000 on improvements and reduces his annual utility costs by 30 percent to 50 percent.
 The Federal Housing Administration and the Department of Veterans Affairs also offer such mortgages, but both have lower ceilings for energy improvement expenditures. 
 One possible downside to the program is that although the home's appraised value increases by the amount the owner spends on improvements, that value may not be reflected in the ultimate resale price. Mr. Wiese said that many real estate agents do not take a house's energy performance into consideration. ''We advise our clients to contact us so we can train their Realtors on how to approach this,'' he said.
 Some lenders are doing more to encourage borrowers to consider these loans. For those who are building new homes, for instance, Wells Fargo will guarantee a mortgage interest rate for up to two years if they agree to take out an Energy Efficient Mortgage and will also lower the rate to reflect declines within 60 days of settlement.
 ''If you have lower overall household expenses, you're a better credit risk,'' said Stuart Tyrie, a vice president of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage. ''So we'll allow you to purchase slightly more home.''
 Currently, fewer than 1 percent of all loans are Energy Efficient Mortgages, according to industry executives. But environmentalists, among others, are hoping that the recent interest in such loans will continue, even if fuel prices drop. ''Two different forces lead you to the same solution,'' said Jeremy Symons, the director of the National Wildlife Federation's global warming campaign. ''Saving energy is good for the pocketbook, but also for your kids because you're saving the environment.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (79%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); HVAC SYSTEMS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); APPROVALS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (64%) Housing; Mortgages; Energy Efficiency; Housing

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Fannie Mae

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (71%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



214 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: How to Find A Fund's True Colors

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IS your mutual fund part of the problem in corporate America or part of the solution? Now that funds' proxy votes have all been filed, you can find out.
 Aug. 31 was the deadline for mutual fund companies to disclose which side they took in shareholder votes at annual meetings this year. Remember, most large funds battled fiercely to kill this disclosure requirement four years ago, when the Securities and Exchange Commission first proposed it. Luckily, the funds lost the struggle to keep their votes secret from the people whose money they manage, whose shares they vote and to whom they owe a fiduciary duty.
While funds are supposed to protect their shareholders, the sorry fact is that they often have lucrative relationships with companies whose shares they own on behalf of their clients. These cushy ties can be jeopardized if a fund votes against management's proposals or directors. 
 All funds say they vote in their shareholders' interests. But only an examination of mutual funds' proxy votes can determine whose interests -- theirs or their shareholders' -- funds are putting first. Let's take a tour. 
 Voting topics this year included the usual (director elections) and the unusual (management and outside stockholder proposals relating to corporate policies on board composition and executive compensation). So-called majority-vote proposals, which permit directors to keep their board seats only if they garner more than half the votes cast, were on many ballots this year; more than 40 percent of those voting, on average, backed the proposals.
 Executive compensation was also front and center this year. Some shareholders, for instance, proposed that companies be forced to retrieve executive bonuses if they turned out to be the fruits of improper accounting or fraud. Interesting, isn't it, that companies have to be pushed on such basic governance issues? 
 Still, some funds saw the light. Putnam Funds, for example, did the right thing when it withheld its support from directors who had approved excessive pay for executives who destroyed value at companies. It withheld support for all of Pfizer's directors because the funds' trustees were unhappy about the $83 million pension benefit and $65 million in pay that the drug giant awarded to Hank McKinnell, Pfizer's chief executive from 2001 until July. (Shareholders lost almost half the value of their Pfizer stakes on Mr. McKinnell's watch.) 
 At Pfizer's shareholder meeting in April, the company's directors supported him and said his pay was justified. But last month, Pfizer dumped Mr. McKinnell.
 ''To me, the Pfizer case was a slam-dunk,'' said John A. Hill, chairman of Putnam's board. ''We own the companies. If we don't act like owners, they won't treat us like owners.''
 Alas, among big, powerful mutual fund companies, Putnam is in the minority when it comes to acting like owners. Almost all the funds that are ranked among Pfizer's top shareholders voted to support the company's directors this year. Many did so against the recommendations of the proxy advisory firms they claim to rely on for guidance on shareholder votes. Glass Lewis & Company of San Francisco, and Institutional Shareholder Services of Rockville, Md., the nation's two largest proxy advisory firms, urged shareholders to withhold support from three Pfizer directors because of questionable pay practices at the company. 
 Mutual funds operated by Barclays Global Investors, Dodge & Cox, Fidelity and Northern Trust are among Pfizer's largest shareholders who supported its board. All receive revenue doing other work for Pfizer. 
 Officials at all four of these companies say their votes were cast in the best interests of their shareholders and in accordance with proxy voting guidelines. All say their votes had nothing to do with any revenue generated by Pfizer or other relationships with Pfizer or its directors. 
 Fidelity, for example, manages several funds in Pfizer's employee retirement plans. While Anne Crowley, a Fidelity spokeswoman, said the company does not comment on specific votes, she added: ''Our votes with management don't vary between whether or not we have another relationship with a company.'' 
 Barclays earned $2.65 million in 2004, the most recent year for which figures were available, as an investment manager in a Pfizer pension plan. Tom Taggart, a company spokesman, said: ''The sole factor B.G.I. considers in making proxy voting decisions is the best economic interests of shareholders.'' 
 Then there is Dodge & Cox, which earned $1.06 million in 2004 as an investment manager to Pfizer retirement plans. A Dodge & Cox spokesman, Steve Gorski, said its funds supported Pfizer directors in accordance with its guidelines. 
 ''Dodge & Cox has a long tradition of serving as fiduciaries and making decisions that we believe are in our clients' best economic interest,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''We normally vote proxies in support of company management, but vote against proposals that we believe would negatively impact the long-term value of our clients' investment.
 ''In the case of Pfizer's 2006 election of directors, we followed our policies and procedures and voted for all directors,'' he said.
 Richard Jurek is a spokesman at Northern Trust, which earned roughly $2 million from Pfizer in 2004 as trustee of its pension plan. He said Northern Trust's vote was made ''in accordance with'' Institutional Shareholder Services' ''vote recommendations to us that were in accordance to our proxy guidelines.'' 
 HMM. Which proxy voting guideline at Northern Trust transformed I.S.S.'s general recommendation that its shareholder clients oppose Pfizer directors into a recommendation that supported them? 
 Details of Northern Trust's guidelines are not published on its Web site and, at first, Mr. Jurek declined to make them available. He later provided them, explaining that they are given only to shareholders who request them. The proxy voting guideline that Northern Trust followed when it supported Pfizer's directors states: ''Northern Trust generally votes for director nominees in uncontested elections absent countervailing factors such as a lack of director independence or chronic, unjustified absenteeism.''
 In other words, no pay for performance disconnect -- not even an $83 million pension dispensed to a chief executive who presided over the destruction of billions of dollars in shareholder value -- is egregious enough to halt Northern Trust's rubber stamp for corporate directors. 
 It is thanks to this kind of large-shareholder passivity that we have seen the biggest transfer of wealth from owners to managers in the history of corporate America. And it is this kind of inertia that allows continued corporate wrongdoing. The fact is, too many fund companies have supported practices that betray shareholders but benefit corporate executives as well as the funds themselves. Only fund shareholders can stop this.
 ''Our society depends on checks and balances, and the money management industry has not done its part,'' said Frederick E. Rowe Jr., money manager and chairman of Investors for Director Accountability. ''It has enabled pervasive corporate abuses by voting its own economic interests instead of the interests of the millions of families whose money it manages. That is a betrayal. Investors should support those managers who properly perform their fiduciary duties and terminate the ones who do not.''
 Wander through your funds' proxy votes, which are usually on their Web sites. See how many times they voted your shares to support corporate managers and entrenched boards. Examine the issues they backed them on. If you think they are not serving your interests, fire them. 
 Otherwise, you will be enabling the enablers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); SHAREHOLDERS (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ACCOUNTING (76%); APPROVALS (71%); BONDS (65%); BONUS PAY (63%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (81%); PFEB (BRU) (81%); PFE (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (81%)

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



215 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 7613 words

HEADLINE: The Bloomberg Vista

BYLINE: By Jonathan Mahler. 
Jonathan Mahler, a contributing writer, is the author of ''Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx Is Burning: 1977, Baseball, Politics, and the Battle for the Soul of a City.''

 BODY:
Mayor Bloomberg likes to eat out, and he makes an effort to have at least one meal a week in a borough other than Manhattan, often at restaurants that are more old-school than upscale. On an afternoon last month, he went to Bensonhurst, a working-class Italian neighborhood in Brooklyn, for lunch at the Vegas Diner. ''My ex-wife used to always have two different answers to the question 'What's your favorite restaurant?' '' Bloomberg said, studying the Vegas's oversize menu. ''What's your favorite restaurant if you're going to eat one meal before you die, or if you're going to eat all of the meals the rest of your life? I would pick a big Greek diner for all of the meals the rest of my life. All the food comes in 10 minutes, it's all the same price and it's actually not bad.'' 
The mayor had left his jacket in the car but was otherwise in his trademark attire: dark blue suit pants, black tasseled loafers, red tie and a monogrammed dress shirt -- MRB -- with Big Apple cuff links. A small, trim man, he looked well rested and energetic, despite the fact that he'd been up before dawn to jog on his treadmill after a late night out with his youngest daughter in George Steinbrenner's box at Yankee Stadium. 
 The mayor is by no means folksy, but he seemed surprisingly at ease piling coleslaw on top of Saltines and chatting with customers as he waited for his western omelet to arrive. He gamely, if a bit stiffly, raised his palm up for high-fives to autograph-seeking children -- ''How about a high-five for the mayor? Come on, you can do better than that!'' -- and parried chivalrously with a few elderly women who approached to pay their respects. ''I can't tell you how much I love you,'' said one. ''Women in their mid-30's like you are so smart,'' the mayor replied. ''I'm going to be 86,'' the woman said. Bloomberg feigned surprise. ''My mother's 97. You're a young woman!''
 That afternoon, the mayor was focused on new state legislation aimed at making it easier for workers who claim they developed illnesses while cleaning up the World Trade Center site to collect benefits. Bloomberg was conspicuously absent from the ground-zero press conference the day before at which Governor Pataki signed the bills into law, and the mayor then proceeded to denounce the laws as fiscally unsound.
 ''I have a legal responsibility to make sure the public's money is spent wisely,'' the mayor told me, stuffing a slaw-laden Saltine into his mouth. ''You're either going to have to raise taxes or cut services for this. We're talking about $10 to $15 million a year. Do you know how many teachers or firefighters you can get for that?'' The mayor pushed away his plate of pickles and coleslaw. ''We've got an insurance fund, and if we don't make sure that we only pay out legitimate claims, we're not going to have any money down the road. When I say you've got to show the damage was done to your worker, they say, 'Oh, well, we'll have them sign a paper.' Does anybody understand what's going on?'' Here Bloomberg lowered his voice to a whisper, as he often does when he's about to say something a little bit controversial, an unconscious tick that can drive his press secretaries crazy. ''In some agencies there's never been a person who retired without a disability claim.''
 If the mayor has grown more comfortable with small talk and quotidian interactions since he was first elected, in 2001, he has not lost his knack for staking out politically unpopular positions, particularly when it comes to emotionally charged, symbolic issues. And even five years after the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, no issue is more emotionally charged and symbolic than ground zero. On the day that the mayor and I met for lunch, The Daily News, usually Bloomberg's most faithful supporter, called him ''coldhearted'' for opposing the new laws. A prominent labor leader told The New York Post: ''It's time for him to stop talking like a private banker . . . and start talking about human life -- like the governor.''
 It was perhaps inevitable that whoever succeeded Rudolph Giuliani was going to seem insufficiently passionate when it came to 9/11, but from the beginning, some have found Bloomberg's attitude toward ground zero jarringly unsentimental. Giuliani established a close bond with the relatives of the victims, appearing frequently at funerals and inviting families to participate in discussions of what kind of memorial would be appropriate on the site; Bloomberg was criticized for not attending enough memorial services and was wary of giving the grieving families a role in urban planning. (''These people shouldn't be deciding on the future of a huge chunk of a city,'' the mayor told me.) Whenever the mayor ventured his own thoughts about the future of the World Trade Center site -- warning against building too large a memorial or proposing that the site include residential buildings -- his comments invariably provoked controversy. More often than not, Bloomberg simply said nothing. He appeared uncomfortable with the sort of muscular, emotional rhetoric that ground zero triggered in other politicians. In the spring of 2002, a ceremony was held at City Hall to raise the famous flag that had flown over the smoldering ruins; no speeches were given. 
 Today when you talk to the mayor about ground zero, he will often steer the conversation away from the 16-acre site and toward the rest of the area around it, a neighborhood that starts north of the Trade Center site at Chambers Street and extends to the southern tip of the island. ''The press keeps writing about the World Trade Center site,'' he says, ''but if you look at a map, it's a very small part of downtown. The other part of Lower Manhattan, which is the vast bulk of it, doesn't get any attention.''
 The World Trade Center site is owned in its entirety by the Port Authority, and the leases to the buildings that were reduced to rubble on 9/11 are all held by a single private developer, Larry Silverstein. With no legal authority on the site itself, the mayor has opted to concentrate his efforts instead on the surrounding area, which was also badly damaged -- if psychologically and economically rather than physically -- on 9/11.
 But Bloomberg's emphasis on Lower Manhattan also reveals something more fundamental about his attitude toward ground zero. To many New Yorkers, whatever buildings rise on that hallowed ground will be our response to the terrorists, a statement of defiance and an expression of our ideals. Bloomberg's hope for these 16 acres is both more and less ambitious. To him, they are not important for what they say to the world but rather for what they could mean to a reimagined and re-energized Lower Manhattan, which in many ways embodies his larger vision for the future of the city.
 For decades, the story of Lower Manhattan has been one of seemingly inexorable economic decline. The city's business axis first began tilting toward Midtown before the Depression, when Grand Central Terminal and Pennsylvania Station started bringing in waves of commuters who preferred to work within walking distance of their train stations, not to mention all of the restaurants and theaters around Times Square. Innovations in engineering were giving rise to a new generation of taller skyscrapers with more usable floor space, larger windows, modern elevators and central air-conditioning, rendering Lower Manhattan's patchwork of low-slung 19th- and early-20th-century limestone-and-granite relics and cramped turn-of-the-century office towers obsolete. In the 1950's, the growing suburbanization of metropolitan New York and a postwar building boom concentrated almost exclusively in Midtown made downtown seem all the more anachronistic.
 In 1955, the banking scion and aspiring urban planner David Rockefeller tried to jump-start development in the district by placing the new headquarters of his family's Chase Manhattan Bank there. But the 60-story tower did little to stop the flow of business uptown. In the 1970's came Westway, a federally financed proposal to bury the West Side Highway and build above it a huge waterfront park lined with clusters of high-rises; it was defeated after nearly a decade of contentious debate.
 The World Trade Center was itself conceived to help breathe new life into Lower Manhattan by transforming it into the global center of international trade. Instead, the twin towers only exacerbated the neighborhood's problems, cannibalizing tenants from the rest of the financial district while pushing restaurants and retail stores underground and -- in unflattering contrast with Midtown's Rockefeller Center -- failing to provide any public outdoor space save for a wind-swept plaza. By 1995, about one-quarter of the offices in Lower Manhattan, roughly 20 million square feet, stood vacant.
 ''If you take a look at the concentration of financial firms downtown, the high point was before World War II, and it has been declining ever since,'' the mayor told me a few months ago. The principal architect of Bloomberg's effort to reinvent downtown is his deputy mayor for economic development and reconstruction, Daniel Doctoroff, a former investment banker who, in 1996, founded NYC 2012, the campaign to bring the 2012 summer Olympics to New York. ''Our vision for Lower Manhattan was in some ways a very romantic notion, and in other ways an unromantic notion,'' Doctoroff says. ''The unromantic notion was accepting that the place was a mess before 9/11. It's no coincidence that the mayor didn't put his company there. But there's also an opportunity because all of this money's going to be pouring in. So it was a matter of creating an opportunity out of a problem.''
 From the beginning of his tenure at City Hall, Doctoroff wanted to find a way to gain control over the Trade Center site -- he ultimately proposed an unsuccessful trade with the Port Authority: the two New York City airports for ground zero -- but he was confident that even if he failed, the city could transform the neighborhood by working around the 16-acres, nurturing its redevelopment not just as a financial district but as a mixed-use community. In the spring of 2002, Doctoroff started working on a new blueprint for Lower Manhattan. A number of city agencies provided input, as did a variety of architects and city planners, including Alex Garvin, a bow-tied urban planner and professor at Yale University who helped Doctoroff create a conceptual strategy for the city's Olympic bid. ''We know how to build memorials, and we know how to rebuild cities,'' Garvin says. ''But the problem here was different. The problem here was how do you grow a downtown, which was essentially slowly dying in its competition with Midtown and the rest of the region, around a memorial?''
 A little more than a year after his election, Mayor Bloomberg rolled out his vision for the future of Lower Manhattan at a breakfast of the city's leading businessmen in the ballroom of the Wall Street's Regent Hotel, a 160-year-old Greek Revival landmark that was once home to the New York Stock Exchange. Standing in the hotel's ballroom, a 12,000-square-foot rotunda that only a year before was a haven for 9/11 rescue workers and downtown's dispossessed, Bloomberg conjured a sort of utopian urban hamlet, ''a live-and-work-and-visit community for the world,'' with apartments and offices but also cafes, performing-arts pavilions, cultural facilities and public places. Tree-lined boulevards would replace the canyons of Wall Street, and the East River waterfront would be studded with ballfields, an outdoor ice rink and even a floating garden.
 ''Chuck Schumer says he wants downtown to be a vibrant financial center,'' the mayor told me this summer, referring to New York's senior senator. We were at City Hall, sitting in a vast 19th-century chamber that represents one of the mayor's first managerial innovations: neither the mayor nor his senior staff have offices; they all sit in cubicles in what was once this former hearing room. ''But there's real evidence that the future of downtown is not as an enormous commercial center. On the other hand, what does downtown have? It has phenomenal views, great mass transportation, beautiful old buildings that can be converted easily into residential. Now, does that mean companies can't stay down there? No, quite the contrary. I would argue that the reason most companies want to be in Midtown is because their employees can walk to work, go out to lunch to great restaurants. After work they can find taxi cabs, be entertained, go to the theater or a bar or whatever.''
 There is no model for the Lower Manhattan the mayor envisions. Unlike TriBeCa, its neighbor to the north, it will remain partly commercial, though it will be considerably more residential than Midtown. Because the island narrows so much at the tip, the apartments and office buildings will stand shoulder to shoulder. Most of Manhattan was built to face inward, away from the bustling, filthy waterfront; Bloomberg hopes to reconnect downtown to both the Hudson and East Rivers by encircling the neighborhood with a necklace of public parkland. 
 Partly to encourage downtown's evolution into a more residential neighborhood, the mayor has refused to offer aggressive incentives to businesses that are considering moving into, or out of, the area. Shortly after his inauguration, Bloomberg scuttled several hundred million dollars in subsidies that Giuliani had promised the New York Stock Exchange, which had been making noise about relocating to New Jersey, to help underwrite a new 10-story trading floor, topped by a 50-story office tower. (The N.Y.S.E. ultimately decided to stay, which hardly surprised Bloomberg: ''They're the New York Stock Exchange. Where were they going to go?'') The mayor gave Goldman Sachs about half the tax breaks it demanded to build a new $2 billion headquarters just west of ground zero, and he still regrets not giving the firm less.
 More controversially, the mayor has allocated hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of Liberty Bonds, awarded by Congress to the city and state after Sept. 11, for new apartment towers in Lower Manhattan, as well as new office buildings in Midtown and Brooklyn. The bonds were intended to help finance New York's 9/11 recovery, and Bloomberg has been accused of betraying their spirit. The mayor's critics also point out that downtown was undergoing something of a commercial renaissance when the twin towers were attacked: thanks to the bull market of the late 1990's, offices that had long been empty were filling with traders, brokers, bankers and lawyers.
 If Bloomberg is underestimating the commercial potential of downtown, the nation's historic heart of high finance, it is partly deliberate. According to the Federal Reserve, Wall Street continues to account for 20 percent of the city's earnings, which means that New York's economy is inevitably at the whim of the market. The mayor would like to reduce the city's dependence on the financial sector by encouraging residential conversions downtown and creating new commercial centers in other parts of the city. 
 But the mayor's ideas about the future of downtown are also a product of his own experience. Bloomberg started working for Salomon Brothers fresh out of Harvard Business School in a run-down building on Wall Street in 1966, hand-counting stock and bond certificates in an un-air-conditioned bank vault in his underwear, a task that has long since gone the way of the telegram and the mimeograph. His career in business traced the rise of the information age that contributed to downtown's demise; he made his fortune by developing a desktop terminal that allows brokers and traders to remain connected to Wall Street from anywhere in the world.
 Bloomberg says that what will attract companies to Lower Manhattan -- and, for that matter, to the rest of the city -- are not the imperatives of their industry but the quality of life. ''Companies come here because the people they want to employ want to live here,'' the mayor told me. ''I can look at my own business. We never would have been remotely successful anywhere else in the world.'' The city's job, then, is to make New York an appealing place to live. ''Cultural institutions, great parks, clean streets, safe streets -- those are the things that get the work force here.''
 The transformation of Lower Manhattan is now under way. Many of the old office buildings lining Wall Street are being converted into luxury apartments. In the immediate aftermath of Sept. 11, it seemed almost inconceivable that anyone would ever want to live downtown; today, it is the fastest-growing residential area in the city. There has been an influx of new stores, including a BMW dealership that recently appeared on the former site of an investment bank. Santiago Calatrava's $2.2 billion glass-enclosed train station, which planners hope will ultimately connect Lower Manhattan directly to J.F.K. and Newark airports, is under construction, as is a new, 12-line subway station and Hudson River ferry terminal. The extension of the West Side promenade to the Battery, the first phase in the reclaiming of downtown's waterfront, was completed in July. ''For 25 years, people have been trying to figure out how to bring people from the northern suburbs to Lower Manhattan,'' says Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of New York history at New York University and an informal adviser to Bloomberg. ''What we're seeing now is that downtown is being made into a place where people can work and live.''
 Some of this development would surely have happened without Bloomberg. Like the obsolete manufacturing lofts of SoHo and TriBeCa, the old office buildings of Lower Manhattan were ripe for conversion; the trend started in earnest under Mayor Giuliani. Still, even after just five years, it's easy to forget how uncertain the future of this neighborhood seemed in the wake of 9/11. ''People say, 'Oh, it's just market forces,' '' Doctoroff says. ''But people invest in an area because they believe in its future, and that requires articulating a vision and a plan that gives people hope.''
 It is impossible to separate the mayor from his personal fortune, and one of the clearest ways in which his wealth has manifested itself is in his senior staff appointments. For most mayors, hiring deputies is an exercise in rewarding political supporters and loyal foot soldiers. There is an element of quid pro quo to this, but it is also the most efficient way for mayors to insulate themselves against the hostile forces they will inevitably confront while running the city. The 2001 election was Bloomberg's first foray into politics; he had no political foot soldiers to speak of. What's more, he financed his own campaign, so he had no favors to repay. 
 As a result, Bloomberg has surrounded himself with an unusual group of senior staff members, including the 48-year-old Doctoroff. A Harvard graduate with a law degree from the University of Chicago, Doctoroff had virtually no political experience before joining the Bloomberg administration, and he and the mayor were only casually acquainted; Doctoroff had lobbied Bloomberg, then a private businessman, to help support the city's Olympic bid. 
 Bloomberg has also given his deputies an unusual amount of power, particularly compared with Giuliani, a notorious micromanager. This is not to say that Bloomberg is easy to work for. At a recent civic-association meeting in Queens, I heard the mayor publicly grill a commissioner for the Department of Buildings about a potentially unsafe construction site: ''You're telling me there's nothing we can do about it? When was the last time we had a building inspector there? Well, let's have another one there tomorrow.'' But as long as his senior staff can prove, in numerical terms, that they are producing results, the mayor lets them do their jobs and is happy to give them credit for their accomplishments. In Bloomberg's mind, no one deserves more credit than Doctoroff: ''History will show that Dan Doctoroff had a bigger impact on this city than virtually anybody.''
 Bloomberg and Doctoroff are, in many ways, kindred spirits. Both were born and raised away from New York -- Bloomberg grew up in suburban Boston, Doctoroff in suburban Detroit -- but started their careers in the city and quickly fell in love with it. Doctoroff also decided to go into government after first making his fortune in business. Before joining the mayor's administration following the 2001 election, he ran Oak Hill Capital Partners, whose largest investor is the Texas billionaire Robert Bass. Now he makes an annual pretax salary of $1. And like the mayor, Doctoroff has a reputation for being competitive and inflexible. ''Dan is not a guy who likes to go along for the ride,'' someone who has negotiated against him told me. ''He's an able guy who has been successful throughout his career and has always gotten his way.''
 Doctoroff lives on the Upper West Side, but when we made a date to meet for dinner a few months ago, he suggested an Italian restaurant in a converted 130-year-old drugstore in Clinton Hill, a recently gentrified brownstone neighborhood in north Brooklyn. Doctoroff is tall and athletic-looking -- he often bikes to work at City Hall -- but shortly after we sat down he told me he was on a diet. He had just made a $1,000 bet with a friend that he could lose 15 pounds first. ''I've done it before,'' he said. ''It's the only way I can lose weight.''
 Doctoroff ordered fish and a diet Coke and over the course of the next three hours proceeded to explain the mayor's broader development strategy for New York. For the most part, the plan grew out of a McKinsey & Company study revealing that the city's need for office space and housing was quickly outpacing its supply. According to McKinsey's estimates, the city would need an additional 70 million square feet of office space over the next 25 years; over that same period, more than one million people were going to arrive in New York. More people meant more amenities. The conclusion was self-evident: to continue to grow, the city was going to have to undergo a period of hyperactive development.
 Doctoroff set about identifying underused areas that could be repurposed. Here, the city's outdated zoning codes played to his advantage. Because New York's last comprehensive rezoning took place in 1961, when there were nearly one million more manufacturing jobs in the city, there were large tracts of idle land across the five boroughs. If necessary, Doctoroff figured, the city could employ its powers of eminent domain to condemn private property before turning it over to developers. ''You have huge swaths of the city that are no longer relevant to its economy,'' he told me, ''old piers on the waterfront, elevated freight lines, military bases like Governors Island, warehousing districts, rail yards.'' The approach mirrored Doctoroff's strategy for NYC 2012, which envisioned transforming neglected pockets of the city into sporting venues.
 The Olympic plan is dead, but signs of the Bloomberg administration's development strategy will soon spring to life around the city. ''We are literally dragging New York into the 21st century,'' Doctoroff says. A two-mile stretch of dormant Brooklyn property along the Greenpoint-Williamsburg waterfront was recently rezoned for housing and parkland; a decommissioned Navy port on Staten Island will be turned into apartment complexes, restaurants and a recreational sports facility; the crumbling Bronx Terminal Market will be demolished and reconstructed as a retail mall; the Atlantic railroad yards in Brooklyn may someday soon house the New Jersey Nets, as well as mixed-income apartments and 600,000 square feet of new office space. These are just a few of the dozens of development projects currently on the boards. All are contingent on the continuing strength of the city's economy. Most are years away from completion; some, like the Atlantic yards plan, face strong community resistance. But the mayor's office has already rezoned the equivalent of nearly 4,300 blocks throughout the five boroughs for commercial and residential use.
 It's not Bloomberg's style to speak in grandiose terms about these projects -- he is by nature more of a problem solver than a visionary -- and yet taken together, they do amount to a surprising vision for the future of New York. The popular cliche holds that the mayor governs like a modern C.E.O., and hiring McKinsey to help devise a long-term business strategy for the city certainly plays into that perception. But at the same time, Bloomberg seems to be trying to return parts of New York to what it was before it became a city of investment bankers and venture capitalists. By setting all of this development in motion, the mayor is seeking to sustain the city's growth -- and thus ensure that there will be housing and jobs for those who don't work on Wall Street. It was toward that same end that Bloomberg took control of the city's struggling school system and that he introduced New York's largest affordable-housing program in decades. 
 Bloomberg's New York is hardly a city where the children of civil servants will live alongside the children of financiers. It's far more economical for him to create affordable housing in the outer boroughs, which will no doubt accelerate Manhattan's evolution into an island of the wealthy, a trend underscored by the imminent sale of Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, two large middle-class enclaves on the east side. And the mayor is by no means opposed to the sort of gentrification that has driven up prices in once relatively affordable neighborhoods like Harlem. ''If you're worried about gentrification,'' he says, ''don't improve the schools and don't bring down crime.'' 
 Still, the mayor's development strategy harks back to a less high-flying, more idealistic era in the city's history. His affordable-housing initiative, for instance, embraces New York's rent-control laws, a remnant of its social-democratic past. There is something incongruous about a billionaire entrepreneur championing, if implicitly, a return to a time when the city was more hospitable to the working class. For better or for worse, Bloomberg doesn't engage in self-mythologizing about his own lower-middle-class roots when he speaks about his plans for the city. ''What, I have to prove that my mother washed more floors than yours to prove that I have the legitimacy to address issues?'' he says. ''I don't think so.''
 Similarly, in reviving the city's long-dormant tradition of large-scale urban planning, Bloomberg is, in a sense, trying to reverse recent history. Ever since Jane Jacobs and her fellow urban warriors rose up against Robert Moses nearly a half-decade ago, an ethos of preservation and protection has held sway in New York. Unwilling to entrust the city's growth to gradual, organic forces, Bloomberg is opting instead for bold re-engineering. He and Doctoroff have clearly learned from the mistakes of their predecessors. Rather than heedlessly plowing under indigenous neighborhoods in the name of urban renewal, they have largely targeted derelict areas whose natural evolution has been retarded by the city's anachronistic zoning codes. Nor do their development plans include housing projects or monolithic commercial towers, which invariably create ghettos and destroy street life; they are geared instead toward what planners refer to as ''mixed-use complexes'' and ''24-hour communities.''
 Nevertheless, the mayor's ambitions can hardly be concealed, and his critics on the right would prefer that he leave development to the free market. ''We have such pie-in-the-sky ideas from Bloomberg,'' says Nicole Gelinas, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, an influential conservative research group. ''Meanwhile, the infrastructure that the city should be focusing on, like the subways, is being ignored. That's the real barrier our natural growth is going to bump up against.'' (For his part, Bloomberg told me: ''I take the subway. My attitude is go earlier if the train's crowded.'')
 Moreover, in a city as densely packed as New York, development almost always encroaches on existing neighborhoods; opposition is inevitable, as was the case with Bloomberg's failed plan to build a $2 billion stadium for the New York Jets, the centerpiece of his plan to create a new neighborhood of residential and office towers on a vacant tract of property on Manhattan's Far West Side. ''History will show that the decision on the West Side stadium was a disaster for the city,'' the mayor told me, reiterating his conviction that the stadium's retractable roof would have made it a popular venue for conventions and thus created countless jobs.
 To Bloomberg's critics, the stadium showed the mayor at his worst, callously disregarding public opinion and stubbornly refusing to build a consensus among his fellow elected officials. In the end, it was one of those politicians, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, Lower Manhattan's representative in Albany, who delivered the fatal blow to the stadium, maintaining that the development of the West Side would impede the commercial rebirth of downtown. In fact, Silver says the city went so far as to actively steer businesses away from Lower Manhattan and toward the Far West Side. (Doctoroff denies this.) To Silver, it was unconscionable for the mayor to set his sights on a whole new piece of property in Manhattan rather than helping to replace the nearly 15 million square feet of downtown office space the city lost on 9/11. 
 It was almost a year ago that Mayor Bloomberg walked into a meeting with the Daily News editorial board and joined the ground-zero fray, calling for housing to be built on the site rather than offices and declaring that the city would be better off without Larry Silverstein there. ''Butt Out, Larry,'' blared a headline in The News two days later.
 Bloomberg's comments were unplanned, and they came as a shock to Silverstein and to Governor Pataki, who controls half of the Port Authority, the owner of the land, and was thus the lead politician at ground zero. The mayor's staff was less surprised: for months, he had privately been expressing concern about the site, which, for all of the post-9/11 urgency to rebuild, still hadn't been excavated. Only weeks earlier, the governor had scrapped two of the cultural institutions intended for the site after a number of the victims' families voiced concerns that they might mount exhibits that denigrate America. The foundation in charge of raising money for the memorial was several hundred million dollars shy of their estimated cost of $1 billion. ''Things were getting out of hand,'' Bloomberg told me, ''and nobody had the courage to stand up and -- well that's a little bit self-serving -- but nobody would stand up and say anything.''
 Eight days before Bloomberg's comments to The News, a Quinnipiac poll revealed that an overwhelming number of New Yorkers wanted the mayor, rather than the governor, to be in charge at ground zero. The World Trade Center site was obviously in chaos, but those sentiments seemed as much a measure of New York's confidence in its mayor as they were an expression of frustration with the rebuilding process. That impression was confirmed less than a month after the poll was conducted, when the mayor was re-elected in a historic landslide.
 Today, rumors persist that Bloomberg is considering running for president, his own coy protestations notwithstanding. (When I asked the mayor about this, he repeated his intentions to leave politics when his second term expires: ''It's very nice they play ''Hail to the Chief'' and that you have your own plane. For most people that's a big deal, but it isn't a big deal for me -- no offense, I hope you have your own plane someday.'')
 Given how popular he has become, it's easy to forget that only three years ago, Bloomberg's approval ratings were hovering at 30 percent, the lowest of any New York mayor in decades. The prevailing perception was that he was completely divorced from the experiences of everyday New Yorkers, and yet just self-righteous enough to tell them what was in their best interests.
 What accounts for this turnaround? The most obvious answer is circumstantial. When Bloomberg came into office, he inherited a $4 billion budget deficit -- $1 billion less than his own personal fortune but nevertheless a staggering sum -- and a local economy buffeted by Sept. 11. Economists were talking about the prospect of a fiscal crisis, and New Yorkers were imagining the rest: a return to the gritty, grimy 70's. New York is now booming: during the fiscal year that ended on June 30, the city recorded a budget surplus of $3.7 billion. The $85 million that the mayor spent on his 2005 re-election campaign also, no doubt, helped burnish his image.
 The mayor himself ascribes his newfound popularity to the fact that the city respects him for sticking to his beliefs. ''I am adamantly pro-choice, I am pro-gay-rights and have said a thousand times that I don't think it's the government's business who you marry, and yet I carried most Catholic communities,'' Bloomberg told me, referring to his re-election. ''And we carried the Upper West Side, an area where you'd never think in a million years a capitalist, running as a Republican, could win. That will be my legacy.''
 Bloomberg and his staff like to talk about his refusal to pander, which isn't to say that he isn't happy to exploit his views for political gain. On the eve of the 2005 mayoral election, Bloomberg came out against the confirmation of Justice John Roberts, citing the possibility that he might vote to overturn Roe v. Wade, the landmark abortion-rights decision that the vast majority of New Yorkers support. And in New York, a city that likes its mayors combative, talking about your unwillingness to pander is its own form of pandering. That said, it is hard not to admire the political courage Bloomberg has displayed in championing unpopular causes like the smoking ban, which he pursued with the zeal of a modern-day prohibitionist. Nor is there much doubt that by virtually every measure, New York is a better place to live and work than when Bloomberg first took office -- crime is down, the welfare rolls are shrinking, the city is experiencing a historic boom in construction. 
 The mayor has clearly settled into the job. He rarely flies off to Bermuda in his private jet for the weekend; instead he traverses the boroughs, marching in parades, visiting injured cops and attending funerals and weddings. He'll occasionally manage to get in a round of golf at one of the private clubs he belongs to in Westchester or Long Island, but he also speaks with firsthand knowledge about the city's public courses. During his first few years in office, he tended to avoid civic-association meetings whenever he could. He now seems to genuinely enjoy the feedback, and no complaint is too picayune to capture his interest. He's a regular caller to 311, the hotline he created so New Yorkers could voice nonemergency concerns, identifying himself simply as ''Bloomberg,'' before reporting some unsightly graffiti or uncollected garbage.
 Most of all, though, New York has gotten used to Bloomberg. New Yorkers have a unique personal relationship with their mayor. They expect him to be as much a mascot for the city, a personification of its particular spirit, as an executive. They want wisecracks, expressions of outrage, expressions of compassion, displays of emotion. These are not abundant in Bloomberg's repertory. While he seems much looser speaking publicly than he did during his first years in office, the mayor can still sound like a substitute teacher trying to relate to his class, reminding students to get good grades and to swim only when lifeguards are on duty.
 Not that the mayor notices. If Ed Koch, the archetype of the mayor as mascot, had an almost pathological need for affirmation, evidenced by his famous rhetorical refrain, ''How am I doin'?'' Bloomberg truly doesn't seem to care what people think of him. When Salomon Brothers was purchased in 1981, Bloomberg, who'd been with the firm for 15 years, was one of only a handful of partners fired rather than offered employment at the newly merged company, a seeming indignity that evidently didn't bother him in the least. The morning after his last day on the job, he started Bloomberg L.P., the eponymous media company that would make him one of the richest men in America.
 Even when his poll numbers were in the tank, he rarely expressed anything approaching regret about having decided to go into politics. ''There were days when I was furious about things that were written about me, I was furious about something I had said or about something that had happened, but I always get into bed and fall asleep instantly,'' the mayor says. ''You've got to look forward. You've got to get on with it.''
 To date, only one building leveled on Sept. 11 has been rebuilt: 7 World Trade Center, a sleek, soaring pale glass tower just north of the site, and therefore just beyond the reach of the architect Daniel Libeskind's master plan. It is hard not to see the building as a 52-story monument to the triumph of the free market over big government. And yet that perception is complicated by the fact that the historic skyscraper, which opened with great fanfare last May, remains about half-empty. 
 Silverstein Properties is the owner of 7 W.T.C. and is one of its seven tenants, occupying the entire 38th floor. Rather than taking a space on the north side of the building, which offers sweeping views of the Manhattan skyline and the Hudson River, the head of the company, Larry Silverstein, chose to be on the less-scenic south side, where he could monitor the rebuilding on the World Trade Center site. 
 The 75-year-old Silverstein's relentless optimism has carried him through seven recessions and a few brushes with bankruptcy over the course of his long career. The son of a Russian-Jewish immigrant and Lower East Side real estate broker, Silverstein bought his first building on East 23rd Street in 1957, picked up some used fluorescent lights for the lobby, slapped a fresh coat of white paint on the dingy walls and raised the rent 10 cents a square foot. A career as a real estate developer was born. Until recently, Silverstein's crowning achievement was signing a 99-year lease for the World Trade Center with the Port Authority in July 2001. Now his sights are set on something much, much bigger: rebuilding ground zero.
 The lone private developer in the tangle of interest groups at the site, Silverstein has come under frequent fire. While rescue workers were still sifting through the debris, Silverstein announced that he intended to move quickly on the rebuilding. Later, his decision to sue his insurers over their unwillingness to treat the attacks as two separate incidents cemented his reputation as the money- and power-hungry real estate developer who puts his own ambitions over the public good.
 At moments, the attacks on Silverstein have been unusually nasty. Charles Gargano, the vice chairman of the Port Authority, called him ''greedy.'' The Daily News ran a humor column parodying the developer: ''Oy. . .you think it's easy counting all that insurance money?'' Silverstein is unfazed by the criticism. ''There are a lot of naysayers out there,'' he told me in his office recently, ''and no shortage of people who would like to get their hands on one of these buildings. I heard that there were all kinds of developers talking to the mayor and governor, urging them to throw me out so they could come in.''
 Silverstein's immediate task is finding tenants for 7 World Trade Center, a job that has not been made any easier by the enduring physical reminders of the lack of progress at ground zero. On one side of the building sits the empty 16-acre plot; on another is the scarred, moldy shell of Manhattan Community College's Fiterman Hall, which was half-destroyed on 9/11 and remains untouched. But the rents at 7 W.T.C. are also high. Silverstein is asking for a little more than $50 a square foot, a steep sum when compared with the average price of $40 in most commercial buildings in Lower Manhattan, though still less than Midtown, where the going rate is $57.
 Months before the building was completed, Bloomberg was concerned about Silverstein's failure to find tenants for 7 W.T.C., and what that failure said about the developer's ability to rebuild the World Trade Center site. The mayor and Silverstein have an odd relationship. Bloomberg is close to a number of the city's high-profile real estate developers, polished, sophisticated men who belong to the same social and philanthropic circles as he does. Silverstein, who may be the only person who calls Bloomberg ''Michael'' -- most people call him Mr. Mayor; his friends call him Mike -- is cut from a very different cloth. The differences run deep. Bloomberg and Doctoroff, the former investment bankers, last year pressed Silverstein for cash-flow numbers proving that he had the funds to get all five towers built before he ran out of money. Silverstein hadn't figured everything out yet; he was relying instead on confidence and moxie, the stock in trade of real estate developers. 
 Much as he would have liked to, Bloomberg couldn't throw Silverstein off the site. The best he could hope for was to get him to surrender some of his control over it. Toward that end, he withheld more than a billion dollars' worth of Liberty Bonds that the developer was counting on. His administration also commissioned an investment bank to scrutinize the economics of Silverstein's rebuilding plan and used every opportunity to publicly question the developer's ability to build the five towers slated for the site before he ran out of money.
 The mayor's biggest obstacle to forcing Silverstein to cede some control was the governor. Pataki and Bloomberg had diametrically different priorities at ground zero. No matter what the mayor accomplishes in the rest of Lower Manhattan, his legacy will be bound up with whatever happens, or doesn't happen, on those 16 acres. The governor's final term was winding down, and as a likely presidential candidate for 2008, he was disproportionately invested in a single building, the symbolically resonant Freedom Tower. As long as it was rising toward the sky when he hit the campaign trail, Pataki could use ground zero to his political advantage. He had a compelling incentive not to lean on Silverstein, lest he wind up jeopardizing progress on the Freedom Tower. Pataki and the small coterie of old-fashioned political operatives who make up his inner circle were also worried, according to a former senior city official, that it might look as if the mayor were -- as the governor put it -- ''riding in on a white horse'' to rescue him. (Pataki's office denies that the governor said that.)
 Last spring, however, the governor agreed to join the mayor's campaign against the developer. In April, Bloomberg, Pataki and the Port Authority presented Silverstein with a new deal and pressured him to take it. Silverstein, his back against the wall, agreed to what were, in the end, relatively modest concessions. He retained control over three of the five towers and will build a fourth, the Freedom Tower, before handing it off to the Port Authority.
 From Bloomberg's perspective, though, it was a victory. Silverstein surrendered some of his power over ground zero -- enough, the mayor says, to get the site built. If everything goes according to plan, Lower Manhattan, which is already encased in scaffolding, will soon be the site of the largest urban redevelopment project ever undertaken. Over the next five years, 11,000 construction workers are expected to pack into downtown Manhattan, pouring 1.6 million cubic yards of concrete and raising 350,000 tons of steel at a total cost of roughly $22 billion, more than half of which will be spent at ground zero. 
 Substantial questions remain, however, including the consent of several of Silverstein's insurers. Until a final agreement is signed, the negotiations are not over. As Bloomberg knows, getting anything accomplished in New York is difficult under the best of circumstances, and the Trade Center site poses unique challenges. Outside ground zero, the forces arrayed against the mayor, from resolute community activists to ambitious political adversaries, are also estimable. What's more, the culture of preservation has strong roots in New York. While no one disputes that the city needs to adapt and grow, the handful of attempts to significantly alter the cityscape in the past half-century -- the twin towers among them -- have only vindicated opponents of large-scale urban planning. 
 In June, when I was riding uptown with the mayor to tour a newly renovated affordable-housing complex in the Bronx, I asked him what he thought was going to happen at ground zero. ''There will be continuing problems -- yelling and screaming -- but we'll get it done,'' he answered. He paused for a moment, as he gazed out the window of his S.U.V. at Van Cortlandt Park, where he won a controversial battle a few years ago to bury a water-filtration plant beneath the park's golf course. ''It ain't easy,'' he went on to say. ''If you want to get something done, you bring in one person and give him power. But the days of Robert Moses are gone.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 13, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in The Times Magazine on Sunday about Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and development in Lower Manhattan misstated the time frame of a dispute between Jane Jacobs and Robert Moses over urban development. It was half a century ago, not half a decade.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York, in the Battery Bosque at the southern tip of Manhattan.
A1 Laight/Washington Streets
B1 Park Place/Church Street
C1 Murray Street/Broadway
A2 Centre/Franklin Streets
B2 Lafayette/Worth Streets
C2 Hudson/N. Moore Streets
D2 Canal/Varick Streets
E2 East Broadway/Market Street
F2 Chambers Street/Broadway
G2 Washington/Vesey Streets
H2 Hester Street/Bowery
I2 Greenwich/King Streets
A3 Church/Barclay Streets
B3 Chrystie/Houston Streets
C3 Worth Street/W. Broadway
D3 Houston/Wooster Streets
E3 Barclay/Washington Streets
Ground Zero, Today, Five years after 9/11, the reconstruction has barely begun.
 Symbol of Resilience: ''The Sphere,'' which sat in the World Trade Center plaza and survived the collapse, is now displayed in Battery Park as a memorial by the Bloomberg administration. (Photographs by Dan Winters for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); WOMEN (66%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (57%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Housing

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Jonathan Mahler; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



216 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Across the Great Divide

BYLINE: By JAMES GOODMAN. 
James Goodman, a professor of history at Rutgers University, Newark, is the author of ''Stories of Scottsboro'' and ''Blackout.''

 BODY:
THERE GOES MY EVERYTHING
 White Southerners in the 
 Age of Civil Rights, 1945-1975.
 By Jason Sokol.
 Illustrated. 433 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $27.95.
When it comes to the words and deeds we call history, time is merciless, laying waste to most everything that gets in its way. Consider the period from 1945 to 1975, the three decades of agitation and struggle known as the age of civil rights. That conflict touched every Southerner, and many Northerners, and it brought about changes as significant as any since emancipation. Yet today what remains is a list: one Supreme Court case, two federal laws, one march on Washington, several summers of riots and a series of dramatic confrontations, remembered as place names, from Montgomery to Memphis. White Southerners have it the worst: their list includes only the names of a handful of detestable men -- the likes of Strom Thurmond, Orval Faubus, Ross Barnett, Bull Connor, Jim Clark, Robert Chambliss, Byron De La Beckwith and Edgar Ray Killen. 
 It is the experience of white Southerners that Jason Sokol, who teaches at Cornell University, has chosen to explore in ''There Goes My Everything.'' He describes the men who filibustered civil rights legislation; stood in schoolhouse doors; met peaceful protesters and would-be voters with clubs, fire hoses and dogs; bombed black churches; and assassinated activists. He frames a chapter on the Civil Rights Act of 1964 around a portrait of Lester Maddox, the Georgia restaurateur whose defiance of the law (he and his white patrons chased prospective black patrons with ax handles and pistols) landed him in the governor's chair. Sokol eases into a chapter on political and economic change with a discourse on George Wallace. 
 But Sokol's real focus is on white Southerners who were less sure of themselves, men and women torn between past and present, old ideas (''Our Negroes are contented'') and mass protest. Away from the cameras and microphones, off the campaign trail, Sokol's Southerners give voice to confusion, mixed feelings and doubt. And many of them changed their minds. 
 One was a young North Carolinian, raised to be ''a racist'' but moved by Martin Luther King Jr. and black music (which his band played to segregated audiences). He fought discrimination on the high school football field, where he helped to protect his one black teammate from opposing players on all-white teams. 
 Another was a Florida motel owner. One week, he dumped hydrochloric acid into his motel pool to force black swimmers out. Two weeks later, he served black diners in his restaurant. Two weeks after that, under pressure from white supremacists, he again began to bar black diners. Klansmen firebombed his motel anyway. 
 A third was a pregnant New Orleans woman, already the mother of nine. Although she supported segregation, she defied the white boycott of a newly integrated elementary school simply because she couldn't bear the thought of her four grade-school children at home with her, ''squabbling and making noise and getting into trouble.'' After weeks of abuse from mobs and countless threatening phone calls, she didn't ''feel any freer than the nigra,'' and from then on she fought on their side. 
 Sokol has scoured newspapers, magazines, news bureau archives and oral history collections, and he uses what he found to evoke dizzying places and times: ''Where peaceful integration of public accommodations reigned in one town, blacks were refused service in the next. On a given city block, African-Americans could have doors slammed in their faces in one restaurant and encounter smiling waitresses next door.'' Wherever he looks, Sokol sees ''change, resistance to change and ambiguity.''
 Sokol is not the first to capture that complexity. His book is brimming with the duly acknowledged observations and insights of writers -- among them Robert Coles, Melissa Fay Greene, Diane McWhorter and J. Mills Thornton -- who have told nuanced stories about the white South. His notes and bibliography include the names of others. Nonetheless, our memories are short. There is always room for a good book, especially one written by a historian with energy and empathy -- and a really good ear.
 Unfortunately, ''There Goes My Everything'' is not that book. Five of six chapters are twice as long as they need to be. For every evocative anecdote and quotation, there are several others that are too familiar, merely cumulative or way off the point. Sokol's sentences are crisp, but he repeats himself so often that he risks turning his own insights into cliches. Worst of all, the book is wholly lacking in design: a messy subject is no excuse for a messy book. A historian must find the design that best expresses the mess. The possibilities are almost infinite, but a write-up of research notes is not one of them. 
 What a shame. In addition to many illuminating stories, there is a timely historical lesson adrift in these pages: people do not readily surrender power and privilege they assume is theirs in perpetuity. Many white Southerners, and a significant number of white Northerners, argued that the issue was not race but rights: states' rights, property rights, white rights. They complained bitterly that the civil rights movement violated them all. 
 It did. The movement violated all the rights -- all the power and all the privilege -- bestowed by man-made inequality. Or it tried to violate them. If only time treated inequality as it treats our memories of inequality, segregation and discrimination would have been gone long ago.


GRAPHIC: Photo: On Dec. 16, 1961, Martin Luther King Jr. led demonstrators through Albany, Ga., a town that became a civil rights battleground. King and many of the protesters were later arrested. (Photograph by Corbis/From ''There Goes My Everything'')

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); RACE & RACISM (86%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (74%); BOYCOTTS (70%); FILIBUSTER (66%); ATHLETES (64%); RESTAURANTS (62%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (55%); SUPREME COURTS (55%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (89%) James Goodman; Jason Sokol

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); ALBANY, GA, USA (69%) GEORGIA, USA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



217 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: HURRY! HURRY! 

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
American Banker, a trade publication in New York, said it would present a lifetime achievement award to Angelo R. Mozilo, chief executive of the Countrywide Financial Corporation, noting that he had built the company from a start-up to the country's biggest mortgage lender. 
 Mr. Mozilo, of course, is also a champion of innovations like no-money-down adjustable-rate mortgages, some with low introductory ''teaser'' interest rates. With home prices falling and interest rates rising, many borrowers are finding themselves with higher monthly payments -- some even as their houses are now worth less than what they owe on them.
It is, one would think, a recipe for defaults in the relatively near term.
 American Banker said it would present its award to Mr. Mozilo on Nov. 30 at the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan. 
 That is none too soon: in the second quarter, foreclosures in California, Countrywide's home state, rose at the fastest pace in 14 years, according to DataQuick. MARK A. STEIN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); FORECLOSURE (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING (88%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HOME PRICES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (93%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (LSE) (93%); 8648 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



218 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1860 words

HEADLINE: More Muslims Are Coming to U.S. After a Decline in Wake of 9/11

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

 BODY:
America's newest Muslims arrive in the afternoon crunch at John F. Kennedy International Airport. Their planes land from Dubai, Casablanca and Karachi. They stand in line, clasping documents. They emerge, sometimes hours later, steering their carts toward a flock of relatives, a stream of cabs, a new life.
 This was the path for Nur Fatima, a Pakistani woman who moved to Brooklyn six months ago and promptly shed her hijab. Through the same doors walked Nora Elhainy, a Moroccan who sells electronics in Queens, and Ahmed Youssef, an Egyptian who settled in Jersey City, where he gives the call to prayer at a palatial mosque.
''I got freedom in this country,'' said Ms. Fatima, 25. ''Freedom of everything. Freedom of thought.'' 
 The events of Sept. 11 transformed life for Muslims in the United States, and the flow of immigrants from countries like Egypt, Pakistan and Morocco thinned sharply.
 But five years later, as the United States wrestles with questions of terrorism, civil liberties and immigration control, Muslims appear to be moving here again in surprising numbers, according to statistics collected by the Department of Homeland Security and the Census Bureau. 
 Immigrants from predominantly Muslim countries in the Middle East, North Africa and Asia are planting new roots in states from Virginia to Texas to California. 
 In 2005, more people from Muslim countries became legal permanent United States residents -- nearly 96,000 -- than in any year in the previous two decades. 
 More than 40,000 of them were admitted last year, the highest annual number since the terrorist attacks, according to data on 22 countries provided by the Department of Homeland Security.
 Many have made the journey unbowed by tales of immigrant hardship, and despite their own opposition to American policy in the Middle East. They come seeking the same promise that has drawn foreigners to the United States for many decades, according to a range of experts and immigrants: economic opportunity and political freedom. 
 Those lures, both powerful and familiar, have been enough to conquer fears that America is an inhospitable place for Muslims. 
 ''America has always been the promised land for Muslims and non-Muslims,'' said Behzad Yaghmaian, an Iranian exile and author of ''Embracing the Infidel: Stories of Muslim Migrants on the Journey West.'' ''Despite Muslims' opposition to America's foreign policy, they still come here because the United States offers what they're missing at home.''
 For Ms. Fatima, it was the freedom to dress as she chose and work as a security guard. For Mr. Youssef, it was the chance to earn a master's degree. 
 He came in spite of the deep misgivings that he and many other Egyptians have about the war in Iraq and the Bush administration. In America, he said, one needs to distinguish between the government and the people.
 ''Who am I dealing with, Bush or the American public?'' he said. ''Am I dealing with my future in Egypt or my future here?''
 Muslims have been settling in the United States in significant numbers since the mid-1960's, after immigration quotas that favored Eastern Europeans were lifted. Spacious mosques opened in Chicago, Los Angeles and New York as a new, highly educated Muslim population took hold.
 Over the next three decades, the story of Muslim migration to the United States was marked by growth and prosperity. A larger percentage of immigrants from Muslim countries have graduate degrees than other American residents, and their average salary is about 20 percent higher, according to census data.
 But Sept. 11 altered the course of Muslim life in America. Mosques were vandalized. Hate crimes rose. Deportation proceedings began against thousands of men. 
 Some Muslims changed their names to avoid job discrimination, making Mohammed ''Moe,'' and Osama ''Sam.'' Scores of families left for Canada. 
 Yet this period also produced something strikingly positive, in the eyes of many Muslims: they began to mobilize politically and socially. Across the country, grass-roots groups expanded to educate Muslims on civil rights, register them to vote and lobby against new federal policies such as the Patriot Act. 
 ''There was the option of becoming introverted or extroverted,'' said Agha Saeed, national chairman of the American Muslim Task Force on Civil Rights and Elections, an umbrella organization in Newark, Calif. ''We became extroverted.''
 In some ways, new Muslim immigrants may be better off in the post-9/11 America they encounter today, say Muslim leaders: Islamic centers are more organized, and resources like English instruction and free legal help are more accessible. 
 But outside these newly organized mosques, life remains strained for many Muslims. To avoid taunts, women are often warned not to wear head scarves in public, as was Rubab Razvi, 21, a Pakistani who arrived in Brooklyn nine months ago. (She ignored the advice, even though people stare at her on the bus, she said.) Muslims continue to endure long waits at airports, where they are often tagged for questioning.
 To some longtime immigrants, the life embraced by newcomers will never compare to the peaceful era that came before. 
 ''They haven't seen the America pre-9/11,'' said Khwaja Mizan Hassan, 42, who left Bangladesh 30 years ago. He rose to become the president of Jamaica Muslim Center, a mosque in Queens, and has a comfortable job with the New York City Department of Probation. 
 But after Sept. 11, he was stopped at Kennedy Airport because his name matched one on a watch list.

A Drop, Then a Surge
 Up to six million Muslims live in the United States, by some estimates. While the Census Bureau and the Department of Homeland Security do not track religion, both provide statistics on immigrants from predominantly Muslim countries. It is presumed that many of these immigrants are Muslim, but people of other faiths, such as Iraqi Chaldeans and Egyptian Copts, have also come in appreciable numbers.
 Immigration from these regions slowed considerably after Sept. 11. Fewer people were issued green cards and nonimmigrant visas. By 2003, the number of immigrants arriving from 22 Muslim countries had declined by more than a third. For students, tourists and other nonimmigrants from these countries, the drop was even more dramatic, with total visits down by nearly half. 
 The falloff affected immigrants from across the post-9/11 world as America tightened its borders, but it was most pronounced among those moving here from Pakistan, Morocco, Iran and other Muslim nations.
 Several factors might explain the drop: more visa applications were rejected due to heightened security procedures, said officials at the State Department and Department of Homeland Security; and fewer people applied for visas.
 But starting in 2004, the numbers rebounded. The tally of people coming to live in the United States from Bangladesh, Turkey, Algeria and other Muslim countries rose by 20 percent, according to an analysis of Census Bureau data. 
 The uptick was also notable among foreigners with nonimmigrant visas. More than 55,000 Indonesians, for instance, were issued those visas last year, compared with roughly 36,000 in 2002.
 The rise does not reflect relaxed security measures, but a higher number of visa applications and greater efficiency in processing them, said Chris Bentley, a spokesman for United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of Homeland Security. 
 Like other immigrants, Muslims find their way to the United States in myriad ways: they come as refugees, or as students and tourists. Others arrive with immigrant visas secured byrelatives here. A lucky few win the green-card lottery.
 Ahmed Youssef, 29, never thought he would be among the winners. But in 2003, Mr. Youssef, who taught Arabic in Egypt, was one of 50,000 people randomly chosen from 9.5 million applicants around the world. 
 As he prepared to leave Benha, a city north of Cairo, some friends asked him how he could move to a country that is ''killing people in Iraq and Afghanistan,'' he recalled. But others who had been to the United States encouraged him to go.
 He arrived in May 2005, and he found work loading hot dog carts from sunrise to sundown. He shared an apartment in Washington Heights with other Egyptians, but for the first month, he never saw his neighborhood in daylight.
 ''I joked to my roommates, 'When am I going to see America?' '' said Mr. Youssef, a slight man with thinning black hair and an easy smile. 
 Only three months later, when he began selling hot dogs on Seventh Avenue, did Mr. Youssef discover his new country. 
 He missed hearing the call to prayer, and thought nothing of unrolling his prayer rug beside his cart until other vendors warned him against it. He could be mistaken for an extremist, they told him. 
 Eventually, Mr. Youssef found a job as the secretary of the Islamic Center of Jersey City. He plans to apply to a master's program at Columbia University, specializing in Arabic. For now, he lives in a spare room above the mosque. Near his bed, he keeps a daily log of his prayers. If he makes them on time, he writes ''Correct'' in Arabic. ''I am much better off here than selling hot dogs,'' he said.

Awash in American Flags
 Nur Fatima landed in Midwood, Brooklyn, at a propitious time. Had she come three years earlier, she woul have seen a neighborhood in crisis. 
 Hundreds of Pakistani immigrants disappeared after being asked to register with the government. Thirty shops closed along a stretch of Coney Island Avenue known as Little Pakistan. The number of new Urdu-speaking pupils at the local elementary school, Public School 217, dropped by half in the 2002-3 school year. 
 But then Little Pakistan got organized. A local businessman, Moe Razvi, converted a former antique store into a community center offering legal advice, computer classes and English instruction. Local Muslim leaders began meeting with federal agents to soothe relations. 
 The annual Pakistan Independence Day parade is now awash in American flags. 
 It is a transformation seen in Muslim immigrant communities around the nation.
 ''They have to prove that they are living here as Muslim Americans rather than living as Pakistanis and Egyptians and other nationalities,'' said Zahid H. Bukhari, the director of the American Muslim Studies Program at Georgetown University. 
 Ms. Fatima arrived in Brooklyn from Pakistan in March with an immigrant visa. She began by taking English classes at Mr. Razvi's center, the Council of Peoples Organization.
 She has heard stories of the neighborhood's former plight but sees a different picture. 
 ''This is a land of opportunity,'' Ms. Fatima said. ''There is equality for everyone.''
 Five days after she came to Brooklyn, Ms. Fatima removed her head scarf, which she had been wearing since she was 10. She began to change her thinking, she said: She liked living in a country where people respected the privacy of others and did not interfere with their religious or social choices. 
 ''I came to the United States because I want to improve myself,'' she said. ''This is a second birth for me.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: LEARNING TO GET ALONG -- A computer class in Brooklyn is among the services that are helping immigrants succeed.
'EQUALITY FOR EVERYONE' -- Nur Fatima, who came from Pakistan last year, at her job as a security guard at a construction site in Brooklyn.
'BUSH OR THE AMERICAN PUBLIC?' -- Ahmed Youssef, saying the call to prayer at a Jersey City mosque, came from Egypt though he opposes the Iraq war.
 IN LITTLE PAKISTAN -- On Coney Island Avenue in Midwood, Brooklyn, there are many Pakistani businesses, and the local elementary school has enrolled dozens of Urdu-speaking pupils. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 32)Chart: ''Muslims Before and After 9/11''The number of people entering the United States from many predominantly Muslim countries declined sharply immediately after Sept. 11 but has resurged since 2004.Graphs track both number of people admitted as legal permanent residents and the number of temporary admissions*, in thousands, from 1998-2005 for the following countries:EGYPTINDONESIAIRANMOROCCOPAKISTANSAUDI ARABIAYEMEN*Includes students, tourists, foreign diplomats and business travelers, who may have been admitted more than once in a given year.(Source by U.S. Department of Homeland Security)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); IMMIGRATION (93%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); AIRPORTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); REFUGEES (88%); IRAQ WAR (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); AIRLINES (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); CENSUS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); IMMIGRATION LAW (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); STATISTICS (66%); WRITERS (60%) Immigration and Refugees; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Islam; Immigration and Refugees

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (82%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

PERSON: Andrea Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); KARACHI,PAKISTAN (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EGYPT (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); MOROCCO (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



219 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Iraqi Premier Will Visit Iran to 'Enhance' Ties

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; An Iraqi employee of The New York Times contributed reporting from Kirkuk.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki plans to visit Iran on Monday to discuss security and political matters with Iranian leaders, his spokesman said Saturday. The visit would be the first by Mr. Maliki to Iran since he took office in late May.
 The visit is expected to last two days. A delegation led by Barham Salih, a deputy prime minister, traveled to Iran last week to pave the way for Mr. Maliki's visit. Mr. Maliki lived for some time in Tehran, the Iranian capital, while in exile during Saddam Hussein's rule. 
The purpose of Mr. Maliki's visit is to ''enhance relationships between the two countries,'' his spokesman, Ali al-Dabagh, said in a written statement.
 Any relationship between Iraq and Iran should be ''based on mutual interests and the respect of the sovereignty of the two countries and noninterference in internal affairs,'' Mr. Dabagh said. 
 American and Sunni Arab officials have long accused Iran, a Shiite-ruled country, of interfering in political and military affairs here. Many of the religious Shiite parties now in power in Iraq, including Mr. Maliki's Islamic Dawa Party, have close ties to Iran. But ordinary Iraqis are generally suspicious of Iran, whose ethnic Persians have traditionally rivaled Arabs for influence in this region.
 Ibrahim al-Jaafari, the former prime minister and head of Dawa, visited Iran while he was in office. The head of the main Shiite bloc in Parliament, Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, is considered extremely close to Iran's top leaders. His party was founded in Iran and its armed wing, the Badr Brigade, fought against Iraq in the eight-year Iran-Iraq war in the 1980's.
 On Friday, an Interior Ministry official said Iranian troops had arrested five members of the Iraqi security forces and their interpreter last week while the Iraqis were patrolling the Iraq-Iran border northeast of Baghdad. The official Iranian news agency said seven Iraqis had been captured.
 The American ambassador, Zalmay Khalilzad, and American commanders strongly condemned Iranian interference in Iraq last month, saying they had evidence that individuals or groups in Iran were training and supporting Shiite militias here. Mr. Khalilzad said Iranians were urging militia groups to step up attacks against the Americans.
 The United States has been pressing Iran over its nuclear program as well. The Bush administration is urging the United Nations Security Council to pass a resolution that would impose economic and political sanctions on Iran if Iran persists in its uranium enrichment program, which the Americans say is intended for the manufacture of nuclear weapons.
 But it would be difficult for the White House to persuade Iraq to take a strong stand against Iran. Besides the political ties among Shiite politicians, the border is very porous, and Shiite pilgrims from Iran often come to Iraq to mingle freely in the religious cities here. Iranians helped make up the hundreds of thousands of Shiites, possibly millions, who gathered in the city of Karbala on Saturday to celebrate the birthday of a vanished Shiite imam known as the Mahdi.
 Three pilgrims en route to Karbala were killed in the town of Musayyib by a mortar round, an Interior Ministry official said.
 In Baghdad, gunmen killed a secretary for a government-financed newspaper, Al Sabah, in a drive-by shooting. A minibus driver was killed when his vehicle exploded. A bomb in a parked car killed a policeman and wounded six others, and another bomb exploding near an American convoy killed one civilian and wounded at least six.
 A homemade bomb that was detonated near a bakery in Kirkuk killed three civilians, two of them children, and wounded eight others, all women and children, police officials said. Another bomb in the city killed a policeman and wounded two others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMED FORCES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); TERRORISM (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Politics and Government ; Security and Warning Systems

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (94%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%) Edward Wong; Nuri Kamal Al- (Prime Min) Maliki

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); IRAN (79%) Iraq; Iran

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



220 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: European Union in Last-Ditch Talks With Iran on Nuclear Plans

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief and Ali Larijani, Iran's top nuclear negotiator, said Saturday that they would continue last-ditch negotiations on Sunday in Vienna to see how far Iran would go to meet United Nations Security Council demand that it freeze its uranium-enrichment program or risk sanctions. 
 Christina Gallach, Mr. Solana's spokeswoman, told reporters that the three hours of talks on Saturday had been ''positive and constructive.'' Mr. Larijani said, ''We had some good and constructive talks, we made some progress in some areas, and we shall continue tomorrow.''
Diplomatic pressure on Iran to halt its enrichment of uranium has increased in recent weeks. Iran says its nuclear program is designed to generate electricity, but the United States and Europe suspect the program is meant to develop nuclear weapons. 
 R. Nicholas Burns, the American under secretary of state for political affairs, said Friday in Berlin that the United States hoped to begin talks next week to fashion a resolution that would seek sanctions against Iran if it did not halt its enrichment of uranium. 
 Mr. Burns was speaking after extensive talks with the other four permanent members of the Security Council -- Russia, France, China, Britain -- as well as with Germany. Talks were held separately with Canada, Italy and Japan.
 He said the talks with the Europeans, Russia and China would continue Monday and would focus on the possibility of drawing up a draft on sanctions before the General Assembly convened the following week.
 But Russia and China have made it clear that they will oppose sanctions, and on Saturday, the Chinese prime minister, Wen Jaibao, warned against stepping up pressure on Iran. 
 ''To mount pressure or to take sanctions will not necessarily bring about a peaceful solution,'' he told a news conference in Helsinki, Finland, after a meeting with European Union officials. He added that resolving the nuclear dispute peacefully would take time. 
 Mr. Wen will start a two-day official visit to Germany on Wednesday, and is expected to discuss Iran with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel. 
 Before arriving in Vienna, Mr. Solana said he did not want United Nations sanctions to be imposed on Iran ''as long as meetings with Mr. Larijani continue.'' 
 Britain, France and Germany circulated a letter to other European capitals on Thursday warning that Iran was intent on ''splitting the international community'' and playing for time by declining to answer in detail a package of economic and political incentives that American, European, Russian and Chinese negotiators presented it in July. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); TERRORISM (59%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Uranium

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations; European Union

PERSON: JAVIER SOLANA (90%); ALI LARIJANI (90%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%) Judy Dempsey; Javier Solana; Ali Larijani

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (79%) EUROPE (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); FINLAND (79%) Iran; Europe; Iran

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



221 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Threat Assessment

BYLINE: By MARTIN WALKER. 
Martin Walker is the editor of United Press International and a senior fellow of the World Policy Institute at the New School.

 BODY:
WHAT TERRORISTS WANT
 Understanding the Enemy, 
 Containing the Threat.
 By Louise Richardson.
 312 pp. Random House. $25.95.
Karl Rove's observation that virile conservatives march forth to defeat their terrorist enemies while epicene liberals seek to understand them was memorable for its partisan venom. Yet the fact is, without making a thorough effort to comprehend the motives, fears and capabilities of Al Qaeda's militants, we can hardly hope to defeat them. 
 Modern terrorists -- whether operating in the United States, Europe or the Middle East -- have sought to understand us and the vulnerabilities of our open societies. It is high time we sought to understand them. Louise Richardson, a lecturer at Harvard, has now produced the overdue and essential primer on terrorism and how to tackle it. ''What Terrorists Want: Understanding the Enemy, Containing the Threat'' is the book many have been waiting for. Richardson's approach is clear and simple, and is deeply informed by the personal insights of one who, as a student in Dublin, was briefly recruited by the political wing of the I.R.A. She has since organized seminars and war games that have brought together academics, former terrorists and those she calls ''activists.'' 
 It may be objected that there is a fundamental difference between Al Qaeda and the I.R.A., a European national independence movement with Christian roots that was prepared to use terrorist tactics as a rational means to achieve a political end. The I.R.A. wanted to bomb its way to the conference table, while Al Qaeda seeks to blow up the table as a symbol of Western cultural oppression. The I.R.A. usually abjured suicide attacks since its militants wanted a sporting chance of experiencing victory (the death of Bobby Sands and his compatriots by hunger strike was an exception). By contrast, Al Qaeda is commonly seen as a nihilist group with no negotiable objectives; with an ideology that embraces and glorifies suicide bombings; as so many mad dogs who can only be hunted down and killed.
 Richardson points out that this is a dangerous misconception. Al Qaeda is neither unique in its organization nor unprecedented in its scale and reach, or in its readiness to inflict mass casualties. The Aum Shinrikyo perpetrators of the nerve gas attack on the Tokyo subway, for instance, hoped for thousands of deaths. With admirable clarity and deep erudition, Richardson suggests that like all terrorist movements, Al Qaeda requires three components: alienated individuals, a complicit society or community, and a legitimizing ideology. Its troops are motivated by some mixture of three key goals: revenge, renown and reaction from the enemy.
 Richardson goes on to argue that the policies of the Bush administration have provided Al Qaeda with great renown and monstrous overreaction -- precisely the stimulants it needs to prosper. By declaring ''war'' on terrorism, the White House has defined the struggle against Al Qaeda essentially as a military problem, best managed by the Pentagon. This flies in the face of all available evidence from successful antiterror campaigns. These include the British operations in Malaya in the 1950's, the penetration of Shining Path by the Peruvian police, the defeats Turkey has inflicted on the Kurdish P.K.K. and, most recently, the co-option of the I.R.A. leadership into electoral politics through the cooperation of the London and Dublin governments.
 These successes have a number of features in common. They were led primarily by police intelligence units working in very close coordination with other arms of the state, including the military and the judiciary, as well as local economic development teams. Government officials all came to understand that they were faced with what was fundamentally a political challenge, and that the prime objective was to separate the terrorists from their base in the community. This meant addressing the grievances of that base seriously, and it meant cooperating with moderates in that community who might have shared some of the terrorists' goals but shrank from their tactics. 
 A successful counterterrorist campaign, Richardson explains, seeks to empower and legitimize the nonviolent moderates, thus isolating the terrorists. Success requires governments to hold the moral high ground, convincing the undecided that the state and its agents are the good guys, who enforce democratic principles and civil liberties even among their own troops and police officers. In other words, with an effective antiterrorist policy there would be no Guantanamo, no detention without fair trial, no secret wiretapping programs and no ''renditions'' of suspects to friendly but foul regimes that practice torture. Intelligence organizations would operate under clear and strict judicial guidelines, with transparent political oversight.
 In its determination to display resolve, Richardson says, the Bush administration has so far failed to learn these lessons. She points out that most governments go through an initial phase of draconian measures with full public support, a second phase of polarization, when liberals bleating about human and civic rights are treated as semitraitorous wimps, and a third phase that comes with the understanding that the tough tactics are not working as expected and that (as Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld seems to have realized in Iraq) they are creating new terrorists faster than the old ones can be killed or neutralized.
 This third phase leads to a reassessment, and then to a search for ways to divide the enemy and exploit the merest hint of division or ideological argument. Probably going further than this administration can yet swallow, Richardson recommends discreetly opening negotiations with Ayman al-Zawahri, the ideologist of Al Qaeda; it's known that Zawahri had gently scolded Al Qaeda's man in Iraq, the late Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, for killing Iraqi Shiites in order to foment a civil war. And there may be rivals of Osama bin Laden whom the administration could reach out to -- in any event, it would be helpful to insert such a worrisome worm of suspicion into Al Qaeda's leadership. Richardson suggests that British intelligence was so adroit at developing informants and fomenting splits in Northern Ireland that there was a period when the I.R.A.'s counterinfiltration teams killed off more of their own militants than the British did.
 Al Qaeda, for its part, has already shown itself quite adept at the tactic of dividing the enemy, exploiting differences between Washington and its European allies. And if senior figures in the Bush administration are even bothering to read bin Laden's speeches, they should have noticed that he condemns the United States for its rejection of the International Criminal Court and for turning a blind eye to the profiteering of the Halliburton Company. As Richardson points out, this suggests that bin Laden has taken to heart ''Lenin's key contribution to terrorist strategy ... the importance of exploiting every fragment of local alienation for its own ends.''
 Richardson's weakest point is that she does not fully address the most profound problem Washington faces. Domestic politics and wider geostrategic considerations have locked the United States into a seemingly unquestioning support for Israel and for unsavory but pro-Western regimes that will make it very difficult to win over moderate Arab opinion and isolate the terrorists. Still, improving America's image overseas is not rocket science: witness the transformation among Indonesians after the magnificent relief effort that Washington led following the great tsunami. Now that many Americans as well as a number of officials inside the administration are going through the third phase of reassessment, the campaign against Al Qaeda can, perhaps, begin to succeed.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rioters in Karachi, Pakistan, set fire to a bus in April after a suicide bomber killed more than 50 people at an outdoor religious meeting. (Photograph by Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (97%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); LITERATURE (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (66%) Books and Literature; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (73%) Martin Walker; Louise Richardson

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (59%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



222 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Where Big Is Always Better 

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
ONCE Russia wanted the biggest dams in the world. Now it wants the biggest corporations. 
 Next month, if the deal goes through as expected, Russia will have the world's largest aluminum company, a step that is part of President Vladimir V. Putin's effort to create giant enterprises as a way of reviving Russia's strategic industries.
 Some Russians, recalling the Soviet boasts of having the biggest rockets, the biggest steel mills, the biggest ice-breakers, were cynical. ''We had a joke in the 1980's that our microchips were the biggest in the world,'' said Aleksei Venediktov, the editor in chief of Echo of Moscow Radio. ''It's that mentality of greatness, in the sense of size, even if it doesn't make sense.'' 
 But Russian leaders say that the creation of giant enterprises makes perfect sense in a world that has seen consolidation in natural resources industries, which make up a huge portion of the country's economy. 
 Last month, Russian Aluminum, or Rusal for short, announced plans to merge with a smaller domestic competitor while also swallowing the mines and factories belonging to Switzerland-based Glencore, a commodity trader. The deal would create a company that would pour more aluminum than the Aluminum Company of America -- roughly 4 million tons a year, compared with Alcoa's 2005 output of 3.55 million tons. 
 While Rusal's executives insist that size itself is not the goal, this is only one of several large-scale projects undertaken recently in industries like oil, natural gas, minerals and aerospace. The most striking example is Gazprom, which has become the second-largest publicly traded energy company in the world, after Exxon Mobil of the United States. 
 In the steel industry, a Russian tycoon proposed last spring to merge with the Luxembourg-based Arcelor, the world's largest steel company by volume of sales. The deal ultimately unraveled, but it suggested the sweep of Russian ambition these days, in which market capitalization is the new yardstick for comparison with the West. 
 Stephen Kotkin, a professor of Russian history at Princeton University and author of ''Magnetic Mountain,'' about the archetypal Soviet steelworks at Magnitogorsk, says that ultimately Russia's new giants ''will either be competitive companies or they will fail.'' 
 ''That is not Soviet,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. 
 Mr. Putin, who published a doctoral dissertation in the 1990's on the role of large, state-supported companies in reviving the economy of Western Europe after World War II, says he is aware of the new climate. ''This result didn't happen by itself, but as a result of focused actions of the government,'' he said at a news conference.
 The Kremlin is clearly hoping to sell the new gigantism not just as a business strategy, but as a balm for the wounded pride of Russians who endured the economic disasters of the 1990's. 
 Mr. Venediktov of Echo of Moscow radio explained it this way: ''We need to say we are the greatest somewhere, in something. Russia is suffering post-imperial syndrome, like England in the 40's or France in the 50's. But ah-hah! We are still the best someplace. We win more gold medals in gymnastics. And now in this: We passed America in aluminum.''
 Critics say these bulging new corporations trace their origins to patronage within the Kremlin's factions. Members of their boards tend to be allies of Mr. Putin. Dmitry A. Medvedev, for example, is simultaneously deputy prime minister and chairman of the board of Gazprom.
 Mr. Medvedev and others cite arguments that internal competition would only lower export profits in natural resources, depriving Russia of its maximum income. Yaroslav D. Lissovolik, chief economist at Deutsche UFG, estimates that 30 percent of the Russian economy is now controlled by monopolies, both private and state-owned. Official statistics, Mr. Lissovolik said, have become suspect since an anti-monopoly committee was found to be taking bribes from companies to avoid classification as a monopoly. 
 ''I do not see competition policy as being very important to the Russian government right now,'' he said. ''Gigantism, just like in the past, is a popular thing that is seen as very successful.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Large Scale -- In 1931, Margaret Bourke-White photographed the industrial behemoths of Magnitogorsk.Today, Russia appears to value the creation of the gigantic corporation. (Photo by Margaret Bourke-White/Time Life Pictures -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (91%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); WRITERS (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (65%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (64%); HISTORY (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); NEWS BRIEFS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Aluminum; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (91%); OAO GAZPROM (66%); UNITED CO RUSAL LTD (55%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Russian Aluminum; Glencore International Ag

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (91%); AA (NYSE) (91%); OGZD (LSE) (66%); GAZP (RTS) (66%); RUSAL (PAR) (55%); 0486 (HKSE) (55%); MTS (MCE) (53%); MT (PAR) (53%); MT (NYSE) (53%); MT (AMS) (53%); XOM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (91%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (91%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (66%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS331314 SECONDARY SMELTING & ALLOYING OF ALUMINUM (55%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (53%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (53%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%) Andrew E Kramer; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (91%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); LUXEMBOURG (53%) Russia; Switzerland; Russia

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2006



223 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 19281 words

HEADLINE: The Hole in the City's Heart

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG; Clifford J. Levy and Jenny Nordberg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
On July Fourth two years ago, eight weeks before the Republican National Convention in New York City, Gov. George E. Pataki traveled from the Hamptons summer home of his senior economic adviser, Charles A. Gargano, to the dusty crater in the center of Lower Manhattan.
 Draped in the symbolism of Independence Day, the two men descended into the baking-hot pit at ground zero. There they oversaw the ceremonial laying of a 20-ton Adirondack granite cornerstone -- flecked with garnet, the state gem -- for what was to be the first building to rise at the new World Trade Center: the 1,776-foot Freedom Tower.
''How badly our enemies underestimated the resiliency of this city and the resolve of these United States,'' Mr. Pataki said.
 For almost two years after that day's Declaration of Independence reading and ''God Bless America'' singing, the cornerstone sat forlornly in the 16-acre depression, waiting for a beacon of hope to soar above it. Even as a building redesign left the cornerstone in the wrong place, it waited, inside a blue shed surrounded, often, by a brackish moat. 
 During that time, Larry A. Silverstein, the commercial leaseholder of the World Trade Center site, often found himself gazing down at the stone, remembering the way he had smiled through his teeth at the July Fourth ceremony. ''The whole thing was speeches,'' he said. ''To me, it was illusory, almost like a farce. People were thinking, 'God, this is wonderful,' when I knew in my heart that it was sheer rubbish.''
 Then, this June, after construction actually began on the substructure of the Freedom Tower, the cornerstone was in the way. Mr. Silverstein's workers used a crane to hoist it from the site, transferring it to a flatbed for a journey that would reverse the one that the governor made on Independence Day 2004: from ground zero out to Long Island, where it is now stored.
 Five years after Sept. 11, 2001, ground zero remains a 16-acre, 70-foot-deep hole in the heart of Lower Manhattan. High above it, a scaffolded bank building, contaminated during the attack, hulks like a metal skeleton, waiting endlessly to be razed.
 The wreck that still stands tall and the pit that still sinks deep sum up the troubled history of ground zero. A site of horrific tragedy whose rescue and cleanup operation was a model of valiant efficiency, ground zero turned into a sinkhole of good intentions where it was as difficult to demolish a building as to construct one.
 For all that has not yet risen from the ashes, there has been considerable sturm und drang, ''like a novel, a cheap novel,'' said Daniel Libeskind, the master planner for the site. The combination of big money, prime real estate, bottomless grief, artistic ego and dreams of legacy transformed ground zero into a mosh pit of stakeholders banging heads over billions in federal aid, tax breaks and insurance proceeds.
 Only now, after a whirlwind of negotiations to resolve crises in advance of the fifth anniversary, is subterranean work substantially under way, raising the hope that reconstruction may proceed. Even so, many family members of victims are quick to point out that they still have nowhere to go to mourn their loved ones and only shaken faith that they will see a fitting memorial in the near future. 
 Governor Pataki, who assumed control of the reconstruction effort in the earliest days, did not intend it to be so protracted. In the spring of 2003, pressed by business leaders who had denounced the anemic pace of rebuilding, Mr. Pataki promised to be ''bold and daring and swift.''
 Standing in a hotel ballroom, he pledged that the skyline would be restored by this fifth anniversary when the Freedom Tower, as he christened it that day, would be topped off at 1,776 feet. By the end of 2006, he continued, a grand new PATH terminal and Fulton Street Transit Center would open, the substructure for a memorial would be built and a grand piazza, the Wedge of Light, would be created.
 None of this has come to pass.
 Lower Manhattan itself has experienced an unexpected resurgence with the conversion of outdated office buildings to luxury residential properties. ''The problem,'' as John C. Whitehead, 84, the former chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, said baldly in an interview last spring, ''is the 16-acre ditch.''
 To Julie Menin, the chairwoman of Community Board 1 in Lower Manhattan, the ditch represents the ''colossal failure'' of the reconstruction effort. John E. Zuccotti, whose company is a principal owner of the neighboring World Financial Center, sees it more charitably. He would give officials ''an A for planning,'' given the challenges posed by ''a situation where more than 2,700 have been murdered.'' 
 ''Where it has stumbled,'' he said crisply, ''has been in the execution.'' 
 Not long after Sept. 11, it became apparent that ground zero had very many owners, from its technical owners -- the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and Mr. Silverstein -- to those who possessed a different kind of claim on the site.
 There were developers, architects, politicians, insurers, community residents, relatives of Sept. 11 victims and multiple competing government entities. ''Too many cooks,'' Mr. Whitehead said. And they all viewed ground zero differently.
 Where some saw lucrative real estate, others saw a graveyard. Where some saw Rockefeller Center or Lincoln Center or Grand Central Terminal, others saw Gettysburg.
 By destroying 16 acres of Manhattan, Sept. 11 produced ''an opportunity, as horrible as that sounds,'' said Anthony G. Cracchiolo, a former Port Authority executive, referring, in his case, to the opportunity to remake a century-old transit system.
 For many in government and business, it provided the heady opportunity, also, to participate in history, to ''wear the ring,'' as development officials used to say. 
 Ambitions were grand, or, critics would say, grandiose, leading to plans for: the tallest building in the country, the most expensive commuter rail station ($2.2 billion), the costliest memorial complex (at least $740 million) and the most technologically advanced ''vehicle security center'' ($478 million).
 Despite $20 billion in federal money and $4.6 billion anticipated in insurance proceeds, however, the site's two central projects, the Freedom Tower and the memorial, have stumbled financially, as in every other way.
 Some victims' family members consider it a skewed priority that the World Trade Center transportation hub is claiming about 13 percent of the direct federal aid while the memorial, which recently underwent cost-cutting and depends on a fund-raising campaign, is getting only about 1.6 percent. 
 ''They saw 9/11 as an opportunity to right all the wrongs of Lower Manhattan,'' said Edith Lutnick, the executive director of the Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund. ''There's nothing wrong with that. But if you're doing it in the name of 9/11, then take care of 9/11 first.''
 Over the last five years, as problems arose, blame was assigned to a shifting cast of colorful characters for standing in the way of progress, including: Mr. Silverstein, who was portrayed as a greedy businessman, the architects Daniel Libeskind and Michael Arad, who were labeled difficult and precious, and the most vocal relatives of victims, who were treated as if they were addled by grief.
 Ultimately, however, politicians and public institutions bear responsibility for what did and did not occur. As a clangorous public process played out, decisions were made and unmade behind closed doors. Nobody wanted to play the role of a Robert Moses, the fabled planning czar who used to bulldoze projects into existence, and yet the complexity of this reconstruction effort demanded a strong leader.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg did not, and, he said, could not, play that role because the city possesses no direct control over the site. ''It is what it is,'' he said in an interview. ''This is Port Authority land.'' His reconstruction vision -- that housing and schools should be built -- was never even entertained, and his preference for a modest memorial was rebuffed when, as he put it, ''everybody voted against me, and that's what democracy is all about.'' 
 Nonetheless, some have faulted the mayor for taking a back seat while the governor drove the process. They lament what they saw as his detachment from ground zero, his pragmatism regarding the memorial and his reluctance to use his bully pulpit until this year. 
 Others find fault with the Port Authority for viewing the scarred site as a source of revenue. Since 2001, the Port Authority has reported about $530 million in net income on the devastated trade center, mostly from Mr. Silverstein's rent for the empty site, which has gone into the authority's general operating budget. It also has reported a net income of $869 million from its insurance proceeds and Federal Emergency Management Agency money, which has been used to pay off the Port Authority's debts.
 It is Mr. Pataki, however, who receives the lion's share of criticism, despite what many see as his heartfelt embrace of this project. He himself said that he had no regrets. The important thing, he said, is that ideas have finally become ''shovels in the ground.''
 ''This is not about meeting any particular timeline,'' he said in a recent interview. ''This is not about 2005 or 2006 or 2008 or 2010. We want it to proceed as quickly as it can be done consistent with, 50 years from now, people saying, 'They didn't do it in a hurry, they did it right.' ''
 But dozens of people interviewed for this article, including some of the governor's allies, described his leadership as erratic, risk-averse and lacking vision.
 ''Governor Pataki had great intentions, but if this is a great project, it will be despite and not because of him,'' said Nina Libeskind, whose husband and business partner Daniel's master plan was selected by Mr. Pataki. ''Personally, he has been very kind to us. But professionally, he has lacked follow-through. Every once in a while, he would pop up, like the spike of an irregular heartbeat, and then he'd be gone again.''

I.
THE BRASS RING
At 75, Larry Silverstein is a preternaturally zippy man who has been cast in an unlikely starring role at the end of a successful but largely uncelebrated career in real estate. Given that he signed a 99-year commercial lease on the World Trade Center site just six weeks before the Sept. 11 attack, it is a fluke, really, that he has ended up at the heart of this drama. But he is a genuine New York character, and so he very much fits in this genuine New York story.
 Now a chauffeur-driven, cufflink-wearing resident of Park Avenue, Mr. Silverstein spent his earliest years on the top floor of a Bedford-Stuyvesant walkup, ''not a very commodious nor sweet-smelling place.'' The son of Eastern European immigrants, Mr. Silverstein is a classic self-made man whose very way of talking -- crisp diction on the one hand, earthy phraseology on the other -- carries hints of both old-school rhetoric classes and Depression-era street life.
 ''You couldn't make Larry up,'' said Roland W. Betts, a founder and chairman of Chelsea Piers and a former development corporation director. ''He should have hosted 'Saturday Night Live' twice by now, playing himself.''
 Thirty-eight stories above ground zero, Mr. Silverstein, a lanky man whose head seems to sit directly on his shoulders, cannot help but pause at the floor-to-ceiling windows and look down. It does give him a headache, though, he said one morning last spring, as he pushed away from the view.
 Mr. Silverstein, dapper in a pink silk tie with blue polka dots, was in the middle of a speed-walking tour of the sprawling office of Silverstein Properties in the newly opened and otherwise empty 7 World Trade Center. It is a glass-skinned, 52-story tower abutting ground zero that he erected ''without government interference.''
 After signing off to his secretary through a window that he closes by remote control -- ''Nifty, ain't it?'' -- Mr. Silverstein began bounding through the hallways, distributing salutations like air kisses: ''Good morning, good morning. Mo, still of sound mind? Hey, Ed. Hey, Shari. How are you this morning? Hey, Steve. Hey, Roz. Hey, Cliff. Hey, Cath, how are you, honey?''
 It was the morning after a ''massive'' party for his 75th birthday and his 50th wedding anniversary. He was feeling ''dandy,'' he said, as he skidded to a stop before a painting.
 An oil of no great subtlety, the painting depicted a sailboat tossing in a rough sea. Mr. Silverstein said he had bought it at a Christie's auction because he saw it as a metaphor for his entanglement with insurers and government at ground zero.
 ''Look at that ship,'' Mr. Silverstein said. ''It's coming through these mountainous seas obviously having weathered, because of its tattered sails, a massive storm, right? There are storm clouds overhead. Yet you can see in the distance that the sun is beginning to come through, the sky is beginning to clear and the ship is going to make it.''

GRABBING THE TROPHY
 The World Trade Center was born through a marriage of public and private interests, primarily those of David Rockefeller, whose Chase Manhattan Bank opened new headquarters in a declining Lower Manhattan in 1960, and Austin J. Tobin, the powerful Port Authority director, who saw an opportunity for profitable expansion.
 Together they created a gigantic office and retail complex financed by government bonds. The Port Authority shut down a vibrant electronics district and eliminated city streets to form the superblock on which the World Trade Center rose. This gave the authority a large chunk of Lower Manhattan, which frustrated the city's mayors from that point through the ground zero reconstruction effort.
 When it was dedicated in 1973, the World Trade Center was not welcomed. Architecture critics derided its monumentalism. New Yorkers did not warm easily to the monolithic austerity of the twin towers or the barren sweep of the plaza. For many years, the project was a financial burden on the Port Authority.
 By the late 1990's, however, the trade center was renovated, upgraded and nearly fully occupied, and the Port Authority made the long-debated move to get out of the commercial real estate business and focus on the region's transportation. While the World Trade Center had never obtained the luster of a premier address, many developers coveted it and none more than Mr. Silverstein, who owned the original 7 World Trade, which sat in the shadow of the twin towers.
 When Port Authority officials asked him if he would be interested in submitting a bid for the lease on the trade center, his response, he said, was ''affirmative without hesitation.''
 ''The trade center was perceived by many as the brass ring,'' he said. ''Given an opportunity to acquire it, how does anybody who has been in this business for 50 years not salivate at the thought?''
 Given the trajectory of his life, it made perfect sense that Mr. Silverstein, at retirement age, would leap for this particular brass ring.
 Mr. Silverstein first got into the real estate business by joining his father, Harry, a classical pianist who made a paltry living as a leasing broker of loft space in SoHo, which was then known more prosaically as the rags, woolens and remnants district. Larry Silverstein quickly grew dissatisfied, telling his father: ''Dad, we're starving to death as brokers. The people really making the money are owners.''
 Harry Silverstein, according to his son, answered: ''We have nothing. How do you buy a building with nothing?''
 And that was the question that propelled Mr. Silverstein on the path toward the World Trade Center. Mr. Silverstein said he found inspiration in ''a gentleman by the name of Lawrence Wien and a gentleman by the name of Harry Helmsley,'' pioneer real estate syndicators who eventually gathered several thousand investors to buy the Empire State Building. Putting together his own first small syndicate to buy a loft building in 1957, Mr. Silverstein established the business model for future transactions, including, one day, the purchase of the World Trade Center lease.
 Gradually, Mr. Silverstein made himself into a player in the Manhattan real estate world, securing himself especially in the downtown firmament. Seven World Trade Center, which opened in 1987, was the first office building that he actually built.
 Way back then, Mr. Silverstein gave the Port Authority an early taste of his exacting bargaining style, prevailing in his quest to double the square footage of 7 World Trade. 
 He also gave New York a taste of his tolerance for bottom-line aesthetics. Mr. Silverstein asked his architects ''for the most inexpensive box I could build'' because he had no tenants lined up. Later, he would refer to 7 World Trade as ''the ugliest building in New York City,'' according to David M. Childs, the architect who designed its replacement after Sept. 11.
 In January 2001, a week before the final bids on the World Trade Center were due, Mr. Silverstein attended a real estate dinner at Le Cirque. The room buzzed with speculation about who would bid what on the trade center. At the end of the evening, he bundled up for a leisurely walk home.
 When he crossed 57th Street at Madison Avenue, a car slammed into him, sending him ''sailing in an easterly direction eight feet closer to the hospital,'' he said. His pelvis was smashed in a dozen places, and he spent the next three days in a morphine haze. On Jan. 28, 2001, Mr. Silverstein stuttered into consciousness and realized that the bids were due imminently. 
 ''Right away, I called the doctor and I said, 'Kill the morphine. I got to think.' ''
 On the day that Mr. Silverstein was discharged from the hospital, he received a call that he had lost to Vornado Realty, the largest commercial landlord in Manhattan, by $50 million. ''Really, it's de minimis when you're talking about that much money, what I call a rounding error,'' he said. 
 But the Port Authority's negotiations with Vornado broke down, and Mr. Silverstein got a second chance. To put together a deal, Mr. Silverstein, who then owned 5.5 million square feet of office space downtown, formed a partnership with Westfield America, a shopping center company. Over the course of negotiations, the Port Authority grew concerned about Mr. Silverstein's financial viability and his ability to manage the gargantuan complex.
 But Mr. Silverstein came up with $125 million in equity, including $14 million of his own money, and $563 million in financing from the GMAC Commercial Mortgage Corporation. He paid the Port Authority $491.3 million and pledged to pay more than $100 million a year in rent.
 After Sept. 11, Mr. Silverstein was lambasted for underinsuring the trade center. But the Port Authority had carried only $1.5 billion in insurance coverage on the complex, which Mr. Silverstein more than doubled, as required by GMAC. As a result, Joseph J. Seymour, a former executive director of the Port Authority, noted, ''Right before Sept. 11, we got additional insurance coverage because of Larry.'' 
 On July 24, 2001, Mr. Silverstein took delivery of the World Trade Center. In a ceremony at the complex, he thrust a giant key chain into the air like a glittering trophy of his ascent from the rags district. 

DETERMINATION TO REBUILD
 Every morning after the deal was finalized, Mr. Silverstein held breakfast meetings at Windows on the World. Early on Sept. 11, his wife, Klara, reminded him that he had an appointment with his dermatologist. He tried to wriggle out of it, he said, but Mrs. Silverstein insisted.
 By the next day, Mr. Silverstein, whose own company had lost four employees, was grappling with how he should confront the tragedy. In a meeting with Howard J. Rubenstein, his public relations adviser, it was decided that ''our message needs to reflect the national shock, anger and ultimate defiance against terrorism'' while refraining from any suggestion ''that the financial markets and the lawyers may ultimately dictate what we do on the property,'' according to the notes of the meeting.
 On Sept. 13, Mr. Silverstein contacted Herbert M. Wachtell, a fierce litigator and a friend since high school. Mr. Wachtell, he said, told him that he had obligations and rights: the obligation to continue paying $10 million in monthly rent and the right to rebuild. Mr. Wachtell would also lead Mr. Silverstein's court battles seeking to double his insurance benefits, claiming that each plane constituted a separate ''occurrence,'' each reimbursable for $3.55 billion.
 Mr. Silverstein proclaimed that he would spend the next five years of his life rebuilding ground zero, although he did not propose precise replicas of the twin towers, as others did. Mr. Childs, the architect, who had been hired two weeks before the attack to upgrade the World Trade Center, said that Mr. Silverstein came to feel that the hand of fate had tapped him on the shoulder.
 ''I think he felt that there was some reason he was there,'' Mr. Childs said, ''that he must have been destined to take this on.''

II.
A SENSE OF MISSION
A few weeks after Sept. 11, Mo-nica Iken was trying to wrap her arms around the idea that her husband, Michael, a bond trader, had gone to work one morning and would never return home. Ms. Iken, who was then 31 and looking forward to starting a family, had been listening numbly to radio and television reports, but the early chatter about rebuilding the trade center startled her into feeling.
 She burst out of her bedroom. ''They're going to build over dead people,'' she told the relatives gathered to keep her company. ''I can't let that happen. I have to go on a mission.''
 Ms. Iken's family treated her pronouncement as if she were unhinged by grief, she recalled. ''They said, 'You've just lost your husband. You don't know what you're saying. What do you mean, a mission? Who are you to do that?' ''
 That was a question that all the family advocates would face at one time, but like Ms. Iken, they were driven to speak out. 
 Tall and willowy, Ms. Iken found herself in front of television cameras right after Sept. 11, when she was waiting outside a hospital to learn if her husband was a John Doe inside. Over the years, people would take potshots at her for what they saw as glorying in the spotlight. One Lower Manhattan community advocate told a reporter that Ms. Iken used to attend public meetings with a makeup artist, which Ms. Iken, sighing, denied.
 Ms. Iken said that she only availed herself of the spotlight that found her first. In those first few months, Ms. Iken, unaware of the real estate complexities that would become paramount, began pushing the idea that all 16 acres should be preserved as a memorial. The idea caught on, and, thrilling her, Rudolph W. Giuliani embraced it in his farewell mayoral address in December 2001.
 ''I really believe that we shouldn't think about the site out there, right beyond us, as a site for economic development,'' Mr. Giuliani said. ''We really have to be able to do with it what they did with Normandy or Valley Forge or Bunker Hill or Gettysburg. We have to be able to create something here that enshrines this forever.''
 Publicly, a debate over possibilities for the 16 open acres raged well into 2002.
 But the most pivotal conversation over ground zero's future took place in late 2001, behind the Port Authority's closed doors, when officials briefly entertained and then, fearing lengthy, costly litigation, rejected the idea of forcing out Mr. Silverstein. 
 ''No matter who talked about, 'Let's get rid of Larry,' it was not something that could be done unless he was a willing participant or did not meet his contractual obligations,'' said Kenneth J. Ringler Jr., the authority's current executive director.
 This decision vested a private businessman with extraordinary influence over the reconstruction effort and yet, because it is essentially a public project, tied his hands at the same time. It is a decision that has been second-guessed so often it is like a parlor game in certain Manhattan circles.
 ''They could have gotten Larry out,'' Mr. Betts said. It would have meant writing a check, Mr. Zuccotti said, but it could have been done. Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, said the mayor and the governor ''could have gotten in a room with Larry Silverstein and said, 'You're out of here.' ''
 But Mr. Yaro said the Port Authority had multiple motivations for retaining the Silverstein lease. ''They saw it as their key to hanging on to the site,'' he said. ''They were afraid of losing control to the city or the state.''
 Further, the Port Authority was counting on Mr. Silverstein's aggressive pursuit of insurance proceeds as well as the more than $100 million a year in rent that the Port Authority depended on to keep its overall operation flush.
 ''I don't think that should shock anybody,'' Mr. Ringler said. ''The World Trade Center was a moneymaker for this agency so that this agency, who pools its resources, can do all the other things we have to do.''
 The World Trade Center site has been an even better moneymaker since Sept. 11, however, primarily because the attack coincided with the sale of the lease to Mr. Silverstein. While the Port Authority reported an average annual net income of $22 million on the complex in the five years before Sept. 11, it reported an average annual net income of $106 million on the empty site in the five years after. 
 ''When you look at how much more profit we made,'' Anthony R. Coscia, the authority's chairman, said, ''all it represents is monetizing an asset we sold before Sept. 11,'' that is, turning the buildings into cash.
 Although the public would not realize it for some time, there was little room for any wholesale reimagining of the World Trade Center site once the Port Authority made the decision to respect Mr. Silverstein's lease.
 ''You had this very quiet, very rapid elimination of the idea that it could be something other than 10 million square feet of office space plus a decorative necklace of ancillary institutions,'' said Michael Sorkin, director of the graduate urban design program at City College of New York. 
 But that decision did not translate into quick action. The Port Authority, a fiercely independent entity unaccustomed to much public review, was pushed temporarily to the side as Governor Pataki and the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, a new state entity, took over planning for the site.
 That fall, it was anticipated that Mark Green, the Democratic candidate, would be elected mayor in November, and Mr. Giuliani assented to the creation of a state-run development corporation to oversee the rebuilding of Lower Manhattan.

FEELING OUT OF PLACE
 When Governor Pataki first phoned him, John Whitehead assumed that he was calling to solicit a campaign contribution. Mr. Whitehead, then 79, a former chairman of Goldman Sachs and a former deputy secretary of state under Ronald Reagan, is an old-school establishment Republican, genteel, decorous and a reliable donor.
 But Mr. Pataki was calling instead to ask Mr. Whitehead to serve as chairman of the development corporation, which Mr. Whitehead, keenly aware of his age and his lack of experience in architecture, construction and urban planning, initially considered declining but then accepted.
 By the time of the City Hall press conference announcing Mr. Whitehead's appointment, Mr. Bloomberg had won the election, inheriting a development corporation that he considered an additional layer of bureaucracy. Still, Mr. Bloomberg stood beside Mr. Pataki and Mr. Giuliani and embraced the selection of Mr. Whitehead, a fellow Harvard Business School alumnus and, Mr. Whitehead noted in an interview, a fellow Eagle Scout, too. 
 At the end of that press conference, Mr. Whitehead began having second thoughts. ''The governor and the mayor -- the two mayors -- headed to their limousines clapping each other on their back,'' he said. ''I hailed a cab, sat alone in the back seat and thought it was one of the lowest points in my life. I didn't know what to do next. I had no money, no staff, no office, no program. 
 ''Luckily,'' he continued, ''the good Congress soon put $2.7 billion in the bank for us to spend.'' 
 Shortly before Christmas, Mr. Whitehead bumped into Thomas S. Johnson at a holiday cocktail party at the home of Robin Chandler Duke, a leading socialite, former ambassador and champion of reproductive rights. It was the first social engagement that Mr. Johnson had attended since his 26-year-old son, Scott M. Johnson, a securities analyst, was killed on Sept. 11.
 By that time, Mr. Johnson, then the chief executive of GreenPoint Bank, had returned to work but he was not ''operating on all cylinders,'' he said in an interview. He ached for his son, whom he describes, after a long pause, as: ''No. 1, never had an unkind moment in his life, No. 2, enthusiastic about his life and positive, and No. 3, great-looking.''
 At the party, Mr. Johnson asked Mr. Whitehead what the development corporation was going to do with ground zero. Mr. Whitehead told him, ''We're going to cover it over, make a temporary memorial and think about a permanent memorial way down the road,'' Mr. Johnson said.

AN EARLY PLAN GOES NOWHERE
 The idea that Mr. Whitehead mentioned never really left the inner sanctum of the Port Authority.
 The Port Authority lost 84 of its own employees on Sept. 11, including its executive director, Neil D. Levin. Port officials pride themselves on the work ethic that kept employees on the job day and night in the weeks and months that followed. It was their way of coping. 
 Christopher O. Ward's job was to direct strategic planning and external affairs at the Port Authority. He said he feared that some might want to exclude the authority from the redevelopment of ground zero, thinking, ''They're too big and lumbering and they'll waste money.''
 ''I thought we needed to do something dramatic to put the port in a good place,'' Mr. Ward said.
 Mr. Ward's idea, developed with other officials and an outside consultant, was to create an interim memorial.
 Because ground zero itself would be a recovery and construction site for a long time, the Port Authority would create a bare-bones exhibition space, like the temporary Museum of Modern Art in Queens, on the abandoned piers of the Brooklyn Heights waterfront. There, artifacts from the World Trade Center -- a crushed police car, a twisted antenna, a steel beam with firefighters' messages -- could be displayed.
 The public would get a quick way to connect with one another and with the enormity of Sept. 11, and the interim memorial would alleviate time pressure on the difficult planning process for a permanent memorial. Or so it was thought.
 At a December 2001 meeting, Mr. Ward, who went on to become Mr. Bloomberg's commissioner of environmental protection, presented the idea to Port Authority commissioners. He told them that the temporary memorial would take seven months to put in place, and he also recommended draping the pit to make it more palatable.
 Mr. Ward said he thought that the governor's office squelched the plan, making it clear that all memorial planning would emanate directly from there. Mr. Gargano, the governor's adviser, who is also a Port Authority commissioner, said that he did not remember the idea at all.
 Whatever happened to that evanescent concept, the artifacts themselves were eventually transported to Hangar 17 at Kennedy International Airport, where they have been off limits to the public ever since.

THE POWER OF GRIEF
 In the spring of 2002, John P. Cahill, the governor's chief of staff, asked Thomas Johnson to serve on the board of the development corporation. At first, the board did not include a single family member, making families feel then, as many times afterward, that the memorial would come second to economic reconstruction. 
 Mr. Johnson requested a meeting with the governor first. In the governor's Midtown office, Mr. Johnson said, he told Mr. Pataki that he would not be able to represent solely ''the narrow interests of the family survivors -- important as they are.'' His allegiance, he said, would have to be to the ''whole of the institution and all of its constituencies.''
 Mr. Pataki accepted this, having chosen a banker and not, say, a firefighter's widow, for a reason.
 Still, the suspenders-wearing Mr. Johnson, now 65, did end up playing what he called the ''very, very painful and very, very difficult'' role of liaison to the families, who alternately resented him for being an insider and appreciated him for standing up to political authorities. 
 He had a fine line to walk. Some family members believed from the start that government officials were more comfortable with those relatives who were part of the elite establishment, like Mr. Johnson; Paula Grant Berry, a former publishing executive who served on the memorial design jury; and Christine A. Ferer, a business owner, widow of Mr. Levin, the Port Authority's executive director, and Mr. Bloomberg's liaison to the families (who, some time ago, had dated the mayor).
 ''I think there was an element of elitism towards the families that was quite palpable,'' said Gretchen Dykstra, former president of the memorial foundation, ''and also a naivete on the part of the families.''
 Sally Regenhard, a former nursing home administrator married to a retired New York City detective sergeant, said she gradually felt disregarded, as did others who served on the development corporation's family advisory council. ''Oh, please,'' she said. ''They say they are inclusionary. And they take everyone's opinion, that's true. But then they put it in the circular file.''
 On the very day that Ms. Regenhard watched the towers burning from her Bronx apartment, even before she knew that her 28-year-old son, Christian, a probationary firefighter, was at risk, she experienced her first shudder of outrage, she said.
 A couple of months later, during Christian's memorial service at St. Patrick's Cathedral, she did not denounce the authorities, as she had intended, for how the emergency communications and building safety systems had failed her son. A onetime Roman Catholic schoolgirl, she felt intimidated by the scarlet-robed Cardinal Edward M. Egan, she said. 
 But several months later, Ms. Regenhard, a compact woman with blond bangs, stood at the edge of City Hall Park in the pouring rain and gave her first press conference. She announced the formation of the Skyscraper Safety Campaign to push, among other things, for safety issues to be paramount in the rebuilding of ground zero.
 ''I was a different person before 9/11,'' said Ms. Regenhard, who wears a locket with Christian's picture and sometimes carries his ponytail, which he cut off before entering the Fire Academy, in a velvet pouch. ''I tried to speak out, let's say in Co-op City, where I lived. But now -- I'm fueled by adrenaline, outrage and love for my son and that has made me a bigger pain in the ass than I ever was before.''
 There is a constellation of family members who have been transformed by loss and anger into advocates. Over time, they have formed organizations with different missions, from safety concerns to how the victims' names should be displayed on the memorial.
 And, over time, they have come to be seen by some community, business and redevelopment leaders as impediments to progress. Some view the advocates as self-appointed and unrepresentative; others, in private conversations, describe them heatedly as radical or loopy or desperate for attention.
 ''My favorite description of the families is: They haven't moved on,'' said Ms. Lutnick of the Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund, which assists the families of the financial service firm's 658 employees who were killed, including her younger brother, Gary. ''They also say that we are incapable of being satisfied, that all we want is for everyone else to feel as bad as we do, that we're crazy.'' 
 ''It's very dismissive,'' she said, ''and it couldn't be further from the truth.''
 Mr. Pataki said that it was ''wrong to generically lump thousands of people together and give them a title'' as family members. There is no one way that family members think and feel, he said, and he has worked to balance their concerns.
 ''I don't expect everybody to stand and cheer,'' Mr. Pataki said. ''All those family members who continually do nothing but bash me -- when I see them, I give them a hug, because I appreciate their sense of loss.''
 Yet many involved in the reconstruction effort say that Mr. Pataki empowered the family advocates and also gave them veto power.
 They point to one of Mr. Pataki's first crucial decisions, announced to an ovation at a memorial service in June 2002: that nothing would be built on the twin towers' footprints, where so many victims' remains were found.
 Development officials discovered Mr. Pataki's commitment in the morning newspapers the next day. Since that commitment carved nearly five acres out of the site for a memorial, including the underground area that was going to be used for parking, roadways and mechanical components, they were startled that such a fundamental decision had been made without consultation. 
 Mr. Bloomberg said that declaring the footprints inviolable drove the process from that point forward, although he said he was not sure whether it was Mr. Pataki or Mr. Giuliani, in earlier remarks, who made the decision.
 ''Once you say that, you've set the scale of the memorial, you've set where the other buildings on the site will be, and you've set the cost,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.

'IT LOOKS LIKE ALBANY'
 In a conference room overlooking the Hudson River, Mr. Betts, a tall, barrel-chested businessman wearing a blue vest with the Chelsea Piers logo, recalled the way that his sports complex was rapidly transformed on Sept. 11 into a triage center.
 ''Right from that day I remember telling Tom that I wanted to get involved in this thing,'' Mr. Betts said, referring to his partner, Tom A. Bernstein.
 Mr. Betts, a development corporation board member, asked its chairman, Mr. Whitehead, ''to put me in charge of ground zero.'' It was not long before Mr. Betts got a taste of just how difficult it would be to oversee a public project involving clashing government entities, a private developer and a grieving public. 
 ''With 20/20 hindsight, we never should have moved forward with so many conflicting stakes on this piece of real estate,'' he said. ''Those people bombed the most complicated site in the state. If they had chosen the Empire State Building, there would have been no Port Authority, no Larry Silverstein. It seemed like everybody had a vested interest in ground zero.''
 It took more than a year to settle on a master plan. In early 2002, the Port Authority and the development corporation began the process by seeking bids from architects. And that is when it came to light that the government was treating Mr. Silverstein's lease as sacrosanct, that it wanted to replace the 10 million square feet of office space that was lost.
 ''This was a disastrous decision, and no one could believe it,'' said Mr. Yaro of the Regional Plan Association.
 A Manhattan architectural firm was awarded the contract and a challenge: to come up with six alternative land-use plans. 
 When the plans were unveiled in July 2002, critics dismissed them as uninspired. The public's response, delivered at a meeting, called ''Listening to the City,'' that drew thousands to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, amounted to a Bronx cheer. What people especially condemned was the site's density, particularly the scale of the commercial square footage.
 ''Somebody said, 'It looks like Albany,' '' Mr. Betts said. ''That was the killer line.''
 In the name of democracy, the development corporation discarded the six plans and embarked on a worldwide search for a more visionary master planner. 

A SWAP IS CONSIDERED
 From the start, Mr. Bloomberg's advisers had been fretting over the city's limited control of the redevelopment. Like many New Yorkers at ''Listening to the City,'' Mayor Bloomberg disagreed with an approach that made significant office space so central.
 ''Nobody was being honest about Lower Manhattan,'' said Daniel L. Doctoroff, deputy mayor for economic development. ''The truth is, Lower Manhattan before 9/11 had a growing residential population, but it had been losing worker population since 1970. By and large, the problems of Lower Manhattan were swept under the rug in the wake of 9/11 by kind of this nostalgia for the World Trade Center and the tremendous emotion that existed.''
 One night in mid-2002, at a moment of simultaneous frustration about ground zero and about negotiations over the renewal of the Port Authority's leases on the city's airports, Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Doctoroff and Roy Bahat, a deputy to Mr. Doctoroff, sat in the garden behind City Hall looking at spreadsheets.
 Flipping back and forth between the two sets of numbers, Mr. Bahat had an epiphany. The city was looking to collect from the Port Authority about $100 million in annual rent on the airports, and the Port Authority was looking to collect from Mr. Silverstein about $100 million in annual rent on the World Trade Center.
 ''I think it was even Roy who kind of, late one night, said, 'Why not just trade?' '' Mr. Doctoroff said. ''We would have gotten the World Trade Center site plus cash,'' and the Port Authority would have gotten the airports.
 The idea was broached.
 The city suggested that the World Trade Center site was worth $4.4 billion to $5.5 billion and the airports $7 billion to $9 billion, Port Authority officials said -- figures the authority questioned. 
 But Mr. Doctoroff said that the numbers could have worked out, and that the swap would have served ground zero well. ''I'm not sure at the end of the day that it would been the best deal financially for the city, but the hope was that having a single government entity in charge'' would have been better, he said.
 City officials said that the governor was not interested, preferring to retain control of the site. Aides to the governor, however, said they never took the idea seriously. Mayor Bloomberg never even called Governor Pataki to discuss it, they said. ''Come on, of course it wasn't real,'' Mr. Gargano said. ''What were we going to do, abandon the World Trade Center?''
 Referring indirectly to the mayor's interest in developing the Far West Side of Manhattan, Mr. Gargano said, ''There was speculation that some didn't want the rebuilding of ground zero because they thought there was a better real estate market elsewhere.''
 After the swap idea dissolved, city officials seemed to disengage from ground zero. Mr. Bloomberg said that they focused their attention on what they did control, the rest of Lower Manhattan. More visibly, he pursued unsuccessful quests to build a West Side football stadium for the Jets and to secure the 2012 Olympics. It was, many community, business and civic leaders said, as if the mayor and the governor had made a pact to divide up Manhattan.
 Such an understanding, Mr. Doctoroff said, never existed, even tacitly. ''There never was a quid pro quo,'' he said.

III.
ARCHITECT VS. ARCHITECT
The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation's office overlooks ground zero. The blinds in its conference room are often tightly drawn, blotting out the view. On the fall day in 2002 that the seven finalist teams for master planner gathered there, though, they stood at the picture windows and gazed down at the stillness of the site.
 ''Somebody from the Port said, 'Does anybody want to go down?' '' Daniel Libeskind, known then as the architect who had designed the Jewish Museum in Berlin, recalled. ''There was complete silence. I said, 'I want to.' It was miserable rain. We borrowed galoshes and bought cheap umbrellas. And as we descended down that huge ramp, really, my view of the world changed.''
 Deep down at the bedrock level, Mr. Libeskind said, he felt both the ''enormity of the loss'' and the unadorned power of the pit itself. After placing his hands on the rough face of the concrete slurry wall, he turned to his wife and said, ''Call Berlin. Drop everything we're doing. I have a complete vision of what should be.''
 Mr. Libeskind, 60, whose bubbly, pixyish demeanor contrasts almost comically with his severe black clothing and rectangular eyeglasses, has a talent for packaging his own stories and ideas. Call it salesmanship or, as Mr. Libeskind does, ''rhetoric, one of the arts that Aristotle and the Greeks thought fundamental.'' That fall, when Mr. Libeskind, who immigrated to the United States as a child, presented his ideas to development officials, it made an impression.
 ''When that magical little guy with the black pants, black shoes, black socks, black belt, black shirt and black glasses stood up and talked about his approach, everybody was emotionally moved,'' said Mr. Johnson, who served on Mr. Betts's site committee. ''When he talked about coming on a boat to America, seeing the Statue of Liberty, going down to ground zero -- I don't know anybody there that didn't start out thinking that his plan would be the very best.''
 But that thinking changed in early 2003 when it came down to a bake-off between two finalists. It was Mr. Libeskind, an architectural theorist who had seen his first building built only four years earlier, versus the Think design team, which included the Argentine-born architect Rafael Vinoly and Frederic Schwartz of New York.
 Think's design centered on two latticework structures that rose like Eiffel Towers above the footprints of the twin towers. Mr. Libeskind's ''Memory Foundations'' featured a memorial site sinking 70 feet down to bedrock with the slurry wall exposed. That hollow would be surrounded by office towers that spiraled progressively higher, with the tallest, at 1,776 feet, reaching up into the sky to echo the Statue of Liberty. 
 The competition was intense and mean-spirited. The Think designers rolled their eyes at the American flag lapel pin that Mr. Libeskind, a naturalized American living in Berlin, took to wearing and referred to Mr. Libeskind's design as a death pit. Mr. Libeskind described the design team's name as disturbingly Orwellian and the Think towers as skeletons -- a perception that Mr. Pataki came to share.
 Some family groups had embraced Mr. Libeskind's plan because it treated bedrock as sacrosanct. Mr. Betts's committee, however, came to favor the Think lattice towers, which members saw as a vertical memorial. ''I thought that Libeskind's was down in a hole and depressing while the Vinoly was soaring and uplifting,'' Mr. Betts said. 
 The tower would have been built segment by segment, like an Erector Set. ''For the public, it would have been an event, like a rising phoenix,'' Mr. Betts said, growing animated and then wistful. 
 The day before the two models were to be presented to Mr. Pataki and Mr. Bloomberg, a site committee member told The New York Times that it had chosen the Think design and did not expect to be overruled.
 Reading the newspaper the following morning, Nina Libeskind, who grew up in a family of Canadian politicians, reached for the telephone. She called Edward W. Hayes, the Libeskinds' friend and lawyer who also happened to be Mr. Pataki's buddy since law school (and the model for Tommy Killian, the defense lawyer in Tom Wolfe's ''Bonfire of the Vanities'').
 Mr. Hayes had accompanied the governor when he toured an exhibition of the models, giving Mr. Pataki a picture of Mr. Libeskind. The photograph, which showed a young Mr. Libeskind posing before a haystack, echoed a similar photograph of the governor as a child (the haystack being a favorite backdrop of Eastern European immigrants), according to Mr. Libeskind.
 After Mrs. Libeskind called him, Mr. Hayes phoned the governor and told him to ''do whatever you think is right'' for a project that would define his legacy. 
 The governor arrived at the development corporation's office and met with Mr. Betts's committee, knowing that one member had leaked its choice. ''Pataki was really, really irked at us,'' Mr. Betts said. ''It was less substantive than, 'Who do you guys think you are? I'm the governor. I make the decisions.' We did not really have a debate. I made the point that the L.M.D.C. expected to make certain decisions. But instead the decision was crammed down our throats.''
 Mr. Pataki overruled Mr. Betts's site committee. To this day, committee members regret the governor's intervention. Some of them say that the Think towers would be built by now, lighted for this fifth anniversary like the beacon that the Freedom Tower has yet to become.
 At a celebration after the governor, with the mayor's assent, made his decision, Mr. Hayes told Mr. Libeskind, ''The governor said that it was the haystack that did it in the end.''

ARTISTE VS. MONEY MAN
 Right before Mr. Libeskind was chosen, Mr. Silverstein sent Mr. Whitehead a cautionary letter on his World Trade Center Properties stationery.
 ''Our group has the right to select the architect responsible for preparing rebuilding plans,'' Mr. Silverstein wrote. Right after Sept. 11, in fact, Mr. Silverstein had chosen David Childs, turning to him and saying, ''You can be the new Yamasaki!'' (He referred to Minoru Yamasaki, architect for the original World Trade Center.)
 Mr. Libeskind would never possess absolute authority as master planner. Even before his plan was selected, he was made to raise the sunken memorial from bedrock to 30 feet below street level for structural reasons. His ability to absorb challenges was tested repeatedly.
 But Mr. Silverstein, as he saw it, was a particular challenge. The feeling was mutual.
 In some ways, Mr. Silverstein and Mr. Libeskind have a good deal in common. They are both Jews of Eastern European descent raised in working-class immigrant homes in New York City. They were both classically trained musicians, Mr. Libeskind as an accordionist, Mr. Silverstein as a pianist and drummer. They both met their wives at camps in the Catskills. They are both remarkably optimistic by nature.
 But to Mr. Silverstein, Mr. Libeskind was an egghead artiste, and to Mr. Libeskind, Mr. Silverstein was a profit-driven developer.
 A few days after Mr. Libeskind was ''anointed,'' as Mr. Silverstein put it, the men got together. In Mr. Silverstein's conference room, Nina Libeskind made it clear that her husband would be designing the 1776 building, as it was then known.
 ''I looked at her in absolute shock and said, 'But he's never designed a high-rise in his life,' '' Mr. Silverstein recalled. ''I said, 'Tell me something. If you were needing neurosurgery, would you go to a general practitioner who has never done any kind of operating in his life?' She said, 'Daniel is a quick learner.' ''
 Mr. Silverstein started picking apart Mr. Libeskind's master plan. He objected first to the location of the Freedom Tower at the northwest corner of the site, where it would be farthest from the transportation hub and, complicating construction, above the train tracks.
 But Mr. Silverstein lost that battle, and the next: ''I said to Larry,'' Mr. Childs recalled, '' 'If the governor won't move the tower, ask him if he would build it last. Then you'll have more of a market, the train station will be done and the slurry wall fixed.' But the governor said: 'No. I want to build it first. I want to build it there. And I want to build it quickly.' ''
 And the governor wanted Mr. Childs, a corporate architect, to collaborate with Mr. Libeskind, an academic architect about a foot shorter, whom Mr. Childs addressed with the diminutive Danny. Mr. Libeskind describes it as a forced marriage -- in which he reluctantly agreed to play the role of subservient spouse.
 As Mr. Childs put it, ''I said, 'Danny, if we have a million disagreements, I get 51 percent of the vote on each one.' And he said, 'Yes, I understand.' ''
 The two architects met weekly in the office of Mr. Childs's Wall Street firm, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, which has developed a specialty in super-tall buildings. Mr. Childs was elaborating on the design of what he called a torqued building and Mr. Libeskind saw as a ''giant corkscrew with a bird on top.'' Mr. Libeskind still believed strongly in his original asymmetrical tower with a spire mirroring the Statue of Liberty's arm. But Mr. Childs thought, ''God doesn't like eccentric loads. That's why he makes trees tapered and they don't have a big branch sticking off the top.''
 Public officials mediated. As unveiled at the very end of 2003, the Freedom Tower, with a twisted torso and off-center antenna, was a bartered design. At the unveiling, the politicians and architects joined hands, but neither that Kumbaya moment nor the design itself would last. 

FROM A DESKTOP FOUNTAIN
 After his experience with Mr. Pataki's selection of Mr. Libeskind, Mr. Johnson set out to organize a memorial design competition that the governor ''couldn't mess with.''
 ''I worked really hard, with others, to set up a process that would result in a truly independent jury,'' he said.
 The jury of 13 included representatives of the governor and the mayor, one family member and professionals from the art and architecture world, including Maya Lin, who designed the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
 Paula Grant Berry, the family representative, said she entered hesitantly into what became an all-consuming experience. ''I felt that the jury was happening at the wrong time,'' she said. ''How can you memorialize something when you are still in it? I wondered what was driving the haste. Why not stop, build a temporary park, put in the PATH station and take a breath?''
 Like the other jurors, Ms. Berry did not like the way that Mr. Libeskind had prescribed a large sunken memorial, ''a gigantic bomb crater,'' as James E. Young, a scholar of Judaic and Near Eastern studies who has written books on memorials, put it. ''We wanted to bring it to grade, to stitch the site back into downtown and not have a giant hole that people had to walk around.''
 In April 2003, the development corporation announced an international competition, soliciting ''creative and exceptional'' design concepts to honor the loss of life on Sept. 11, 2001, and on Feb. 26, 1993, when six people were killed in a bombing attack on the World Trade Center.
 At the last minute, the jury inserted into the design guidelines a quiet invitation to ignore Mr. Libeskind's master plan, which many designers were reluctant to do.
 Michael Arad, an assistant architect for the New York City Housing Authority, was not.
 Unlike the voluble Mr. Libeskind, Mr. Arad speaks softly and methodically.
 Try to interrupt him with a question and he says, ''I'll get to that.'' He does not like to be diverted, which made it difficult for him during the fractious reconstruction process, where no path was ever a straight one. 
 Mr. Arad, now 37, a slim, pale man with rectangular glasses and an intense gaze, had started sketching ideas for a memorial about a year after the attack. Because of a Sept. 11-related delay in the renewal of his work visa, Mr. Arad, the son of an Israeli diplomat who grew up partly in the United States, found himself on leave from an architectural firm, with time to ponder. He imagined two voids in the Hudson River; water would flow into them but they would never fill up. Then he built a model, with a desktop fountain from Bed Bath and Beyond, carried it to his rooftop, photographed it and said to himself, ''O.K., now what?''
 When the memorial competition was announced, Mr. Arad dusted off his model and contemplated creating the voids on the World Trade Center site itself. He made an early decision to discard important aspects of the master plan, like the sunken plaza and the cultural buildings. He thought Mr. Libeskind had all but designed a memorial himself, relegating prospective designers to ''selecting fabric swatches.'' 
 In June 2003, Mr. Arad submitted ''Reflecting Absence,'' which carved out an enormous, barren street-level plaza featuring two square depressions 30 feet deep. At the bottom of each depression sat a reflecting pool fed by sheets of water. Each pool was broken by another square, with water falling again into a second void, and the victims' names engraved on parapets around the pools' edges. Visitors could either gaze down into the pools or descend into what Mr. Arad envisioned as a cool, dim, contemplative space vital to the experience.

'LESS IS MORE'
 A few months later, in August 2003, the 13 members of the World Trade Center memorial design jury sat cloistered in a bland meeting room.
 Ahead of them was a daunting task. They had received 5,201 designs submitted, as required, on 30- by-40-inch poster boards, as if they were middle school science projects. And no single design had jumped out at them.
 That day, they were to receive first Governor Pataki, then Mayor Bloomberg and finally Mr. Giuliani. It was a formality, as the jurors saw it. They had been assured that their decision-making was to be free from political interference.
 And yet what they heard from the politicians that day, particularly Mr. Bloomberg, presaged the troubles that lay ahead. 
 While Governor Pataki essentially gave the jurors a pep talk, the mayor and the former mayor presented them with contrasting and irreconcilable visions of how best to honor the dead. They raised the issues of cost, of scale and of timing: was it too soon to make such a potentially divisive decision?
 Most astonishingly, although this was almost two years into an arduous process of determining the fate of ground zero, it was clear that neither of the two mayors believed in the reconstruction program that an Albany-led process had established. 
 Mr. Giuliani encouraged them to consider the entire site ''sacred ground,'' making it clear that his views had remained consistent since he left office. He said of the memorial, ''I think it should be big.''
 Mr. Bloomberg said just the opposite: ''Less is more.'' 
 With his hands chopping the air, Mayor Bloomberg told the jurors that he thought they should build a school instead of a monument. ''I always thought the best memorial for anybody is to build a better world in their memory,'' he said. ''I'm a believer in the future, not the past. I can't do anything about the past.''
 Mr. Bloomberg related that before the first anniversary, he had tried to call the families of about 400 uniformed workers killed on Sept. 11. Most were moving on with their lives, he said. ''Then there were 15-odd families where the spouse, I think it was probably all women, they just kept crying and crying,'' he said. ''It's not my business to say that to a woman, 'Suck it up and get going,' but that is the way I feel. You've got to look to the future.''
 Mr. Bloomberg also revealed that he had specified in his will a desire to be buried in a plain pine box. ''It's not like I can't afford a fancy coffin,'' he told the jurors. ''It's just a waste.''
 Adding that ''there are too many things that are wrong with society that a dollar can fix,'' Mr. Bloomberg spoke about famine, war and the preventability of deaths from diarrhea in the developing world. He wanted the jurors to think about the memorial project in a broader context, he said.
 Vartan Gregorian, a juror and president of the Carnegie Corporation, told the mayor, ''In fairness to us, this is the first time we've heard about cost.'' But it wouldn't be the last, for the estimated cost of the memorial would balloon to almost $1 billion, enough to pay for 20 schools.
 Like the deliberations of the memorial jury, these frank conversations were private, but the development corporation had them videotaped for a documentary on the making of the memorial. The videotapes, with a State Supreme Court justice's assent, have been closely guarded ever since. Denied the tapes officially, The New York Times was nonetheless able to view them. 
 The public may never have that opportunity. The documentary was abandoned. 

AN EXPENSIVE VISION
 When it came to selecting an architect to build the new PATH station, the Port Authority had no intention of following in the development corporation's footsteps. 
 ''We did not want an endless public process with 5,000 public submittals,'' said Anthony Cracchiolo, who was in charge of capital projects for the authority. ''We said, 'Let's do it the traditional way.' ''
 Santiago Calatrava, a Spanish architect, artist and engineer who had earned an international reputation for his bridges and transportation terminals, submitted a bid in partnership with two New York firms.
 ''You see,'' Mr. Calatrava said in an interview, explaining his interest, ''to make a statement of construction in a place that has suffered such a devastating destruction -- you cannot be in a better place.''
 In the summer of 2003, Mr. Calatrava's partnership, which includes the STV Group and DMJM Harris, won a $155.6 million contract to design the PATH station. 
 (Several years later, Mr. Cracchiolo, who retired from the Port Authority with a $145,000 annual pension, went to work for STV. So did two other former Port executives involved with the PATH project, although the firm said that none of them are working on that terminal. )
 Inspired by the idea of a child releasing a dove, Mr. Calatrava designed a soaring winged structure, with a roof that could open to the sky every Sept. 11.
 Port Authority officials quickly found themselves enchanted by Mr. Calatrava's considerable charm. ''I have become very, very fond of Santiago,'' said Mr. Ringler, the Port Authority's executive director. ''The guy's a genius. But the first thing that hits you in the face -- he gives you a hug.''
 Mr. Calatrava's business is based in Zurich and Valencia, Spain, but since 2002 he has lived part-time on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. 
 Unlike many other architects at ground zero, Mr. Calatrava has retained significant creative control, although he has faced both security issues and some minor cost concerns. He was asked to use polished granite instead of marble, for instance, but Port Authority officials have not wanted to tie the hands of a man they consider an artist.
 ''Our people call him the Da Vinci of our time,'' said Mr. Seymour of the Port Authority.
 After Sept. 11, Port Authority officials jumped at the opportunity to remake the antiquated transportation infrastructure of Lower Manhattan. Almost immediately, they decided that they would not only restore what was lost but also improve on it.
 ''The trade center had been attacked twice,'' Mr. Cracchiolo said. ''Our thinking at the time was we needed to make a statement. We wanted to create a Grand Central Terminal in Lower Manhattan. It could be a catalyst for development as Grand Central was in Midtown.''
 Grand Central, however, was built by the Vanderbilts. The new terminal in Lower Manhattan will be built by the taxpayers.
 The central hall in Mr. Calatrava's station will be roughly as capacious as Grand Central's main concourse. But while Grand Central has 45 train tracks, the PATH station will have 5. And while Grand Central serves 200,000 train commuters and 700,000 subway riders daily, the World Trade Center PATH station now serves 42,000. 
 The Port Authority anticipates the number of commuters doubling in a couple of decades, just as it anticipates the transportation hub -- with its stores and store-lined underground corridors -- evolving into a heavily trafficked crossroads.
 New York's leaders stand solidly behind the PATH project even if some gape at the price tag. ''It's the only part of the project that has not been controversial,'' Carl Weisbrod, president of Trinity Real Estate, said. ''It's a lot of money to spend on a PATH station. But the Calatrava may well end up becoming the icon of the site.''
 In trips to Washington after Sept. 11, New York officials made transportation projects a priority, persuading Congress to dedicate $4.55 billion of the ground zero money to them. That was a substantial chunk -- almost a third -- of the $15 billion in direct federal aid. (Another $5 billion came in the form of a tax incentive program.)
 The two major transportation projects, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's Fulton Street Transit Center and the Port Authority's World Trade Center transportation hub, are nearly side by side. ''It will be like having Grand Central and Penn Station a block apart,'' Mr. Yaro of the Regional Plan Association said. 
 The M.T.A. project is budgeted at $847 million, and the port's at $2.2 billion, with a $280 million reserve fund. (The Port Authority will contribute $300 million of its own money to the PATH complex.) Neither terminal adds capacity to its system. 
 As now estimated, the PATH complex -- whose price tag includes underground passageways radiating from the terminal and the east foundation -- costs roughly the same as the Freedom Tower. But it requires much less concrete and steel, chief ingredients that drive cost, according to construction estimates.
 Where the Freedom Tower will need 190,000 cubic yards of concrete and 53,700 tons of steel, according to the estimate, the PATH complex will need less than half as much of those materials.
 One reason for the disproportionate cost of the PATH project is that the government is spending more on ''soft costs'' than Silverstein Properties, which is building the Freedom Tower. For instance, the PATH complex's administration, design and insurance costs will total about $620 million, or 28 percent of the project's total, according to federal transportation documents. The same costs for the Freedom Tower will be about $290 million, or 14.5 percent of that project's total, according to Silverstein Properties.
 Port officials say the projects are not comparable. ''Ours is a complex transportation project,'' said John J. McCarthy, the agency's public affairs director. ''It's very different than a stand-alone office building.'' 
 The new PATH terminal will replace the $323 million temporary PATH terminal built to replace the one destroyed on Sept. 11. That temporary station, an impressively rapid government construction project that seemed to herald a quick rebirth of the site, opened in the fall of 2003.

A WINNER, AND A COMPROMISE
 Late one night that same fall, Mr. Arad, after changing his newborn son's diaper, got a cryptic e-mail message asking him to contact the development corporation. He thought, he said, that his $25 entry fee check had bounced, but learned instead that he was one of eight finalists for the memorial.
 As the jury slogged through thousands of entries, it knew what it wanted. 
 ''None of us were looking for a literal reference to the attack,'' Professor Young said. ''We weren't interested in planes crashing into towers or flames. We were more disposed to an abstract, under-determined design.''
 But finding what it wanted was not easy. All the finalists ''needed a lot of help,'' Mr. Young said. Mr. Arad was no exception. 
 Mr. Arad met with the jury at least three times, the first time talking with nervous rapidity and coming across as arrogant. After a subsequent presentation at Gracie Mansion, Mr. Arad was startled when the jurors broke into applause -- all except Maya Lin, he said, who crinkled her nose. In the end, though, it was Ms. Lin who championed his design.
 Yet the jurors challenged Mr. Arad on what they saw as the austerity of his memorial plaza. And, at that point, Mr. Arad said, ''I tried to find a path between resistance and accommodation.'' 
 He agreed to join with an older, more experienced professional, a landscape architect named Peter Walker, in a partnership that grew disharmonious as officials came to prefer dealing with Mr. Walker.
 Over time, the memorial concept came to be seen as the seed of an idea rather than as a design itself. Even before he was selected, Mr. Arad agreed to add a grove of trees and cultural buildings to his spare plaza. 
 In January 2004, Mr. Arad's selection was announced. For all those who admired his design's stark elegance, others found it bland, minimal and so abstract as to be meaningless. 
 Mr. Arad prepared to defend his design against further changes while development officials, based on initial impressions, worried that he would prove immature and uncompromising. It was the start of an uncomfortable relationship.
 Mr. Johnson, the board member, was pleased that the jury had remained immune from political pressure. ''That's the good news,'' he said. ''The bad news is that Michael Arad won.''
 Mr. Libeskind struggled with his emotions as his master plan was altered by the winning memorial design. Initially, he fumed. Eventually, he shrugged.
 ''I would be throwing myself off an elevation,'' Mrs. Libeskind said. ''But Daniel had the capacity to look at something and find the good in it, to find the way it respected this or that element of his concept.''
 Friends often suggested that Mr. Libeskind walk away, she said: ''They'd come in and say, 'Haven't you had enough? First the Freedom Tower, now the memorial.' ''
 Mr. Libeskind's response: ''In my opinion, people give up too easily.''
 His equanimity was put to the test one more time that very January when Mr. Calatrava conducted a private unveiling of the model for his PATH station. As designed, the terminal encroached on Mr. Libeskind's Wedge of Light plaza, whose outlines were defined, Mr. Libeskind said, by the angle of the sun's rays on Sept. 11.
 Anxious Port Authority officials gathered with the architects on the first floor of Mr. Calatrava's Park Avenue town house, where sweeping white walls and blond wood floors serve as a minimalist backdrop for the Spanish architect's sculptures and watercolors. 
 ''The tension was very high,'' Mr. Seymour said. ''Then Santiago made the point that when the roof opened every Sept. 11, that would allow the wedge of light. Nina started to say something against it. But Daniel stopped her. He said, 'No. He's accented the Wedge of Light. I like it.' And then the wine was served.''

A TOXIC BUILDING
 By the end of 2003, the black-shrouded Deutsche Bank building at 130 Liberty Street seemed to be standing in the way of progress, which was elusive enough in this one step forward, one step backward reconstruction effort.
 It was really just a bystander building on the periphery of ground zero, but it got sucked into the dysfunction all the same.
 As a result of the collapse of the southern twin tower, the bank building suffered a 15-story gash, filling with toxic ash and debris. A long, bitter battle between Deutsche Bank and its insurers ensued. Two years passed, during which the master plan that was created counted on the building's property to expand the reconstruction site. 
 One day, two young executives of the development corporation were sitting in a diner bemoaning that the impasse between Deutsche Bank and its insurers seemed as insurmountable as conflicts of far greater proportion. What we need, Kevin M. Rampe and Matthew T. Higgins joked over lunch, is the kind of world-class mediator who gets dispatched to the Middle East or Northern Ireland.
 Enter former Senator George J. Mitchell, his conflict resolution skills honed in Jerusalem and Belfast. And Mr. Mitchell indeed provided a speedy resolution, or so it seemed: the government would save the day, with the development corporation buying the toxic building and razing it.
 It was a deal, Governor Pataki proclaimed in early 2004, that would ''show the world that we are moving rapidly.'' 

IV.
COMING UNDONE
By early 2004, a master plan was in place, a memorial design had been chosen, a PATH station design had been unveiled, a Freedom Tower design had been negotiated and the Deutsche Bank building was in government hands. Everything finally seemed to be coming together. Then the unraveling began.
 Throughout 2004, more than 100 architects, engineers and consultants worked to take the conceptual design for the Freedom Tower through the design development process, level by level. But a dispute between the Port Authority and the Police Department ended up rendering most of their work a waste of time and money (an estimated $30 million).
 The dispute, which did not become widely known until April 2005, had been simmering for more than a year before that.
 Police officials said that they first voiced their concerns to development officials in late 2003 but were unable to obtain documents from the Port Authority or set up meetings with them. 
 In the spring of 2004, Raymond W. Kelly, the New York City police commissioner, told Mr. Silverstein that he was ''deeply concerned about the Freedom Tower location and design from a terror standpoint,'' Mr. Silverstein said. He asked for a document called the threat assessment risk analysis. Mr. Silverstein gave it to him, the police said.
 As then designed, the Freedom Tower met the security standards of a federal courthouse. Police officials did not think that level of security was high enough. But the Port Authority believed that ''doing it at courthouse standards was going far enough,'' according to Mr. Seymour, then the Port Authority's executive director, and police officials did not suggest an alternative.
 Further, port officials thought that the Police Department's discomfort was more fundamental, Mr. Seymour said: ''The N.Y.P.D. was really not receptive, in my opinion, to the idea of building the Freedom Tower at all.'' 
 On July 4, Mr. Pataki laid the cornerstone for the building.
 This irked the police. 
 On Aug. 31, 2004, Michael A. Sheehan, the police deputy commissioner for counterterrorism, wrote Mr. Seymour a letter expressing his discomfort with the Freedom Tower's ''insufficient standoff distance'' from West Street and about the use of glass on lower floors. These specific concerns, he wrote, had been voiced in previous meetings and ignored.
 Mr. Sheehan did not get a response.
 On Oct. 1, 2004, Mr. Sheehan wrote Mr. Seymour again. ''Due to the history of Al Qaeda strikes at this location and the symbolic nature of the Freedom Tower itself, it seems clear that this building will become the prime terrorist target in New York City as soon as it is occupied.''
 Eighteen days later, Mr. Seymour wrote back. ''I just received your Oct. 1 letter today, which was apparently misrouted within the Port Authority,'' he said. ''We also have no record of receiving the Aug. 31 letter that was attached.''
 Still, for the next several months, the Freedom Tower's designers soldiered on.
 ''I do think that the port and Silverstein, to some extent, had their heads in the sand,'' said Mr. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor. ''They didn't want to slow things down.''

A HANDFUL OF M & M's
 At the same time, during twice-weekly meetings, the Port Authority, the development corporation and city planners tried to hammer out commercial design guidelines. 
 The dense site is like a three-dimensional jigsaw puzzle whose interlocking parts made all the government entities co-dependent, like it or not. And, to their chagrin, Mr. Silverstein held a lot of the pieces.
 The arduous process involved setting building heights, bulk and setback as well as the width of sidewalks and streets. Mr. Silverstein consistently wanted bigger floors and taller buildings, participants said, leading to such paralysis that Roland Betts stepped in to mediate. It took 12 weeks.
 During one mediation session at Chelsea Piers, participants haggled over space allocations for the eastern boundary of the site. That boundary was 1,700 feet long, but it had 1,703 feet worth of things on it. Mr. Betts implored Mr. Silverstein to relinquish one foot of space per floor in each of three buildings. Mr. Silverstein held firm. 
 Finally, Mr. Betts grabbed a fistful of red, white and blue peanut M & M's from a bowl. He asked for a ruler and lined up the M & M's alongside it. ''You can't tell me that you won't concede this amount of M & M's out of each building,'' he said to Mr. Silverstein.
 Mr. Silverstein relented, Mr. Betts said. 
 There was considerably more at stake when Mr. Silverstein battled his insurers. 
 In May 2004, after a 52-day trial involving some of his many insurers, Mr. Silverstein lost his first effort to claim that the two planes represented two attacks and required double payments. At the end of 2004, however, after a separate 35-day trial, he won the right to collect double payments from another set of insurers. He had spent about $100 million paying lawyers to fight this particular fight, which critics said was an unconscionable siphoning of money that should have been used for rebuilding. But in his mind, that $100 million produced an additional $1.1 billion for rebuilding ground zero, which was worth it. 
 The insurers had portrayed Mr. Silverstein as -- ''What the hell phrase did they use?'' Mr. Silverstein said. ''Not greedy. Not overreaching. Begins with an 'r' '' -- rapacious in his scheme to recover as much insurance money as possible. But in an indication that his legal position was not that exotic, the Port Authority, after Mr. Silverstein won the second case, quietly filed its own lawsuit seeking a double payout on its own insurance policy. 

OBJECTIONS FROM THE POLICE
 By April 2005, Mr. Silverstein had what amounted to a conditional building permit from the Port Authority. Yet, he said, he was uneasy about proceeding without the Police Department's blessing.
 Complicating matters, the Freedom Tower had been designed with the expectation that West Street, a state highway, would be slimmed from six lanes to four for local traffic, with an express roadway depressed in a tunnel. The tunnel, according to some security experts, could have contained damage to the Freedom Tower from a car or truck bomb, reducing the need for standoff distance and bunker-like reinforcements.
 If the tunnel idea were to be abandoned, however, that would pose a problem, which is where the future of the Freedom Tower intersected with the future of Goldman Sachs & Company, the investment banking firm.
 One of Lower Manhattan's largest employers, Goldman Sachs had resisted political pressure to establish new headquarters in the Freedom Tower, announcing instead that it would build its own building across West Street from ground zero. 
 But Goldman, whose continued presence downtown was considered vital, did not favor the tunnel, which would have disgorged traffic at its front door. According to government officials and business leaders, Goldman was promised by the governor's office that the tunnel would be quashed. But, as the security concerns over the Freedom Tower became more pronounced, the tunnel, in various iterations, remained alive.
 In early April 2005, Goldman Sachs announced that it was suspending plans to build its headquarters across from ground zero. 
 Less than two weeks later, the tunnel was killed. And, eventually, Goldman announced that it would revive its downtown headquarters, enticed by government incentives. The firm received $1.65 billion in Liberty Bonds, 20 percent of the $8 billion in low-cost, tax-free financing created by the federal government to help New York recover from Sept. 11.
 According to a city official involved, it was ''too good a deal, but then, the state wanted them to get twice as much.''
 After the Police Department finally produced a report suggesting that the Freedom Tower be built to the security standards of an American embassy, Mr. Pataki announced at a public breakfast that it would be redesigned. Mr. Silverstein, according to a rebuilding official, was ''apoplectic.'' 
 ''It was an unmitigated disaster,'' Mr. Silverstein said. ''We had wasted two years, and, as I pointed out to the governor, inflation was starting to take hold in the construction trades and everything was going to be more costly.''
 Mr. Pataki announced that his chief of staff, John Cahill, would oversee the reconstruction effort and that James K. Kallstrom, a former assistant director of the F.B.I., would become the site's security czar. 
 Kevin M. Rampe resigned as president of the development corporation, the second leader in three years to step down. He said that his resignation had nothing to do with the state of crisis, that he had lined up a job as an insurance executive. But Mr. Rampe disagreed with the abandonment of the tunnel and the redesign of the Freedom Tower.
 ''The minute the governor made the decision to redesign the Freedom Tower,'' Mr. Rampe said, ''people said, 'Hey, if you can redesign that, why not rethink everything else?' ''
 Mr. Childs went back to the drawing board, this time alone. By the end of June 2005, he had unveiled yet another version of the Freedom Tower, sitting atop a 200-foot-tall bunker of concrete and steel, its torso slimmer and straighter and crowned by a centered antenna. Mr. Childs declared it a much better building, and Governor Pataki wholeheartedly agreed. But the next controversy was already bubbling.

A MUSEUM IS DERAILED
 Tom A. Bernstein, Mr. Betts's partner at Chelsea Piers, first broached the idea of a freedom museum with development officials in early 2002. The idea had been sparked by a casual conversation with Peter W. Kunhardt, a filmmaker who was producing a PBS series called ''Freedom: A History of US.''
 ''Peter and I started talking about how to frame the horror of 9/11 in a bigger story,'' Mr. Bernstein said. ''We thought, what if we had an institution devoted to telling the story of the struggle for freedom here and around the world?''
 In May 2003, Mr. Bernstein and his friend Kenneth I. Chenault, the chief executive of American Express and a backer of the concept, met with Governor Pataki. They found him receptive. 
 In June 2004, Mr. Pataki, Mr. Bloomberg and development officials announced the selection, from among more than 100 applicants, of the International Freedom Center and three other institutions -- the Drawing Center, the Joyce Theater and the Signature Theater Company -- as the cultural anchors for the World Trade Center site. 
 By that point, Mr. Bernstein and Mr. Kunhardt had invested considerable time into building what they saw primarily as an educational institution, recruiting advisers, conducting feasibility studies and developing the concept. 
 With the Drawing Center's leaders, they selected an architect, Snohetta of Norway, which got a $3.25 million contract from the government. In May 2005, Governor Pataki and Mayor Bloomberg unveiled Snohetta's design, which the governor called ''part of a lasting tribute to freedom.''
 A month later, the troubles began, and, like so much of the controversy at ground zero, it involved ad hominem attack. Mr. Bernstein, like Mr. Betts, is a friend of President Bush. But politically, he is a member of the city's liberal intelligentsia, son of the founder of Human Rights Watch and a leader himself of Human Rights First.
 In June 2005, Debra Burlingame, a memorial foundation board member whose brother was a pilot of the plane that crashed at the Pentagon on Sept. 11, wrote an op-ed article in The Wall Street Journal calling the Freedom Center ''a multimillion-dollar insult'' that would offer a ''slanted history lesson'' without telling the story of Sept. 11. Ms. Burlingame pointed out that Mr. Bernstein's human rights organization had sued Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld on behalf of the administration's detainees in Afghanistan and Iraq.
 ''This is a freedom center that will not use the word 'patriot' the way our Founding Fathers did,'' Ms. Burlingame wrote.
 Talk radio snapped up the dispute. At the end of June, Mr. Pataki issued a statement demanding a guarantee that the center would not become a forum for ''denigrating America.'' In July, Mr. Bernstein made that pledge. But it was not enough. Mr. Pataki's advisers said that the freedom center did not ''clarify its message'' in a way that tamped down the mounting furor.
 ''The site was supposed to bring people together to heal the wounds of Sept. 11,'' said Mr. Cahill, the governor's chief of staff. ''It was never envisioned as a place that would breed controversy.'' 
 Although the development corporation had undertaken a review of the Freedom Center's program, Governor Pataki cut it short and evicted the institution from the memorial quadrangle. The SoHo-based Drawing Center, which had also come under attack, had already pulled out, later accepting an apology in the form of a $10 million grant from the development corporation. 
 The development corporation board, including Mr. Whitehead, who usually chose to stay above the fray, expressed outrage at Mr. Pataki's intervention. Mr. Betts resigned.
 ''That was frankly the turning point for me and many others,'' Mr. Betts said. ''We were running a process, and Pataki just blew it all away. He trashed the museum, he upstaged the L.M.D.C., he ceded to the victims, he let them portray Tom as a leftie nut and he made a parody of the process.'' 
 ''Basically Pataki went like this,'' Mr. Betts said, wetting his finger in his mouth, and holding it up to the wind.

NAMES AND NUMBERS
 Eliminating the Freedom Center did not eliminate controversy from the memorial complex, though. From the time that ''Reflecting Absence'' was selected in early 2004, the understated eloquence that the jury had admired did not satisfy the need that many families felt to dramatize Sept. 11. 
 ''We did not like the mind-set that 9/11 is too dark and horrific of a story to tell so you need to be general and illustrate a concept, like loss, instead,'' said Anthony Gardner of the Coalition for 9/11 Families.
 Christine Ferer, widow of the Port Authority director, took Mr. Arad ''by the hand'' to Hangar 17 to experience the power of the World Trade Center artifacts. His eyes welled with tears, she said. At the behest of the jury, he had already added an underground ''interpretive center'' to house some artifacts, although some family members, like Mr. Gardner and Ms. Ferer, wanted at least some at street level, too.
 Even before his design was unveiled, some family advocates urged Mr. Arad to change the way that he had displayed the names of the dead. Mr. Arad had arranged them randomly, but -- on what Mr. Bloomberg said was his suggestion -- he had placed service insignia beside the names of uniformed emergency workers. Some family members believed that the insignia created an offensive hierarchy among the dead.
 ''I said to Arad and Rampe, 'Please don't do this,' '' said Edith Lutnick of Cantor Fitzgerald. ''I said, 'This will cause a tremendous amount of pain to a tremendous amount of people.' But they did it.''
 Ms. Lutnick then gathered leaders of family organizations and unions. It took more than a year, but eventually they hammered out a proposal for allowing victims to be listed in some kind of context -- by tower or workplace name or fire battalion and so on. Civilians would be listed alphabetically, and uniformed workers by rank. 
 ''What the families really want is some kind of affiliation, so they don't have to search for their loved ones anymore,'' she said.
 But the development corporation persisted in supporting Mr. Arad's vision on this one issue, and Mr. Bloomberg, in particular, defended it as one decision that would not be unmade.
 The underground interpretive center grew in size and importance, becoming a memorial museum. And Mr. Arad found himself further sidelined when the firm of Davis Brody Bond was brought on as associate architect for the memorial and then named design architect for the museum.
 Eventually, Mr. Arad was barely on speaking terms with any of his associates, although, Mr. Libeskind commented, the development corporation did not foster collegiality. ''We were not even allowed to meet together with the others involved to converse and discuss,'' Mr. Libeskind said. ''Do you believe that?'' 
 Mrs. Libeskind added, ''It was supposed to be divide, control and conquer. It turned out to be just divide.''
 After a while, some family members began identifying with Mr. Arad's beleaguered state. ''I have a great respect for him,'' Ms. Iken said, ''He's fighting the process like we're fighting the process.''
 Underlying all the tension was the elephant in the living room: the cost.
 The mayor wanted to talk about the memorial's cost from the beginning, but others did not. ''When we asked about the various proposals' costs at the behest of the mayor, we got criticism,'' Mr. Rampe, then president of the development corporation, said. ''It was like, 'How can you put a cost on the memorial?' '' 
 There was, at the time, deep-seated confidence in the fund-raising potential of a memorial. ''People all over the country will want to contribute,'' Mr. Whitehead told the mayor.
 In late 2004, the corporation spun off a foundation to raise money for the memorial and oversee its construction, which added another layer of bureaucracy and another assemblage of egos to a difficult decision-making process.
 ''When Whitehead started telling me that we needed a foundation to fund this, my response was, 'Why?' '' Mr. Betts said. ''Washington gave us tons of money. We're building parks with it. What is that all about? It's great to have the parks. But I mean, this money was about Sept. 11, wasn't it?''
 The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation awarded $250 million of federal ground zero money to the memorial and $273.5 million to parks and waterfronts.
 Rebuilding officials say that since the Vietnam Veterans Memorial opened in 1982, memorials have been financed privately. The Vietnam memorial, however, one whose scale the mayor often cited, cost $8.4 million. The World Trade Center memorial foundation's fund-raising goal was $300 million.
 After trying unsuccessfully to recruit a chairman for the foundation, Mr. Whitehead decided to head it himself. In short order, he single-handedly raised $130 million from 15 companies and individuals, he said. But that left $170 million to be raised, and with all the chaos swirling around the memorial, it was not.
 Until this year, though, nobody knew how much the memorial was going to cost. Estimates ranged from $300 million to $350 million during the design competition to $500 million when the memorial foundation was created to the outsized figure of almost $1 billion this spring.
 That is when Mayor Bloomberg blew the whistle. 

V.
SORTING OUT THE FUTURE
Shortly before Election Day last fall, Mr. Bloomberg started using public pressure to force change in the commercial part of ground zero.
 According to Mr. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor, Mr. Bloomberg did not have the political clout to assert himself more persuasively earlier, and needed to proceed deftly. ''We were facing a $7 billion deficit and needed Albany and the governor's help,'' Mr. Doctoroff said. 
 Over time, however, the dynamic changed. By late 2005, the city was posting a record budget surplus, the mayor was celebrating his re-election by a 20 percentage-point margin and the governor was facing his final year in office.
 The mayor's first push was to call publicly for Mr. Silverstein to relinquish control of the site.
 This public pressure represented collaboration behind the scenes between City Hall and Mr. Coscia, the chairman of the Port Authority. 
 As Mr. Coscia describes it, the Port Authority had taken a seat on the sidelines while the public process played itself out. The agency did what it could by itself, he said, on its PATH stations. By last fall, however, once ground was broken on Mr. Calatrava's terminal, the Port Authority needed to collaborate more intimately with Mr. Silverstein on the infrastructure for the site and found itself ''butting heads'' with him on a daily basis.
 Mr. Coscia invited the developer to his office to suggest a partial relinquishment of the site and the insurance proceeds so that the site could be developed more quickly. 
 ''I stressed, 'Let's divide the work and do it faster,' '' said Mr. Coscia, 46. ''Larry, who's always been a gentleman to me, said, 'You're a very nice young man and you probably have good things in your future, but you're very naive. Have a nice day.' '' 
 ''I didn't convince Larry,'' Mr. Coscia said. ''But I did convince Doctoroff and City Hall.'' 
 When Mr. Silverstein applied for $3.35 billion in tax-exempt Liberty Bonds to help finance the Freedom Tower and his other buildings on the site, Mr. Bloomberg found a lever. The city and the state each control half those bonds, and the mayor said that he would not agree to the city's half unless Mr. Silverstein made certain concessions.
 Mr. Silverstein needed the Liberty Bonds because insurance proceeds, which amounted to about $4.6 billion, would not nearly cover the expected costs of the five towers. 
 Mr. Silverstein and the Port Authority together had spent more than $1.5 billion of the insurance money already, including more than $500 million for Mr. Silverstein's rent to the Port Authority; about $190 million for the Port Authority to buy out Westfield America's retail rights; and more than $700 million to repay Mr. Silverstein's lender, GMAC, and to repay Mr. Silverstein and his partners most of their equity. 
 In the middle of December, Governor Pataki declared that the state would grant Mr. Silverstein $1.67 billion in Liberty Bonds, the state's half of the financing he had requested. But he set a 90-day deadline for the developer and the Port Authority to work out a new understanding.
 During that time, City Hall turned up the heat on Mr. Silverstein, pressing the idea that he would not have enough money to build five office towers at the site. The city disseminated a financial analysis concluding that Mr. Silverstein would be able to afford only two towers, at best, and could then pocket tens of millions of dollars while defaulting on the others. Mr. Silverstein disagreed with the analysis.
 On March 14, the 90th day, the parties assembled at the Port Authority's headquarters near Union Square in Manhattan. (City officials were not present.) They negotiated all afternoon over how to re-divide the site, breaking at 6 p.m. with a pledge to reassemble after dinner. 
 According to Janno Lieber, Mr. Silverstein's World Trade Center project director, several substantial issues remained unresolved. He said that Mr. Silverstein, his executives and his lawyers spent the next several hours preparing a ''counterdraft'' of an agreement and working out differences with Mr. Silverstein's co-investors.
 Then they returned, with Mr. Silverstein fueled by several cups of coffee in anticipation of a long night. From the perspective of infuriated government officials, however, Mr. Silverstein and his people had disappeared for hours. 
 ''They came back raring to go not long enough before the midnight deadline, and my normal calm demeanor did not stay calm,'' Mr. Ringler said. ''Quite honestly, this was an example of Larry waiting until the last minute to cut a deal, and probably viewing that he could extract more from us because we were under the gun. So I said, 'It's over.' And I may have uttered profanities.''
 According to several people present, what Mr. Ringler said was: ''Get the hell out of here. This deal is dead. Pay your goddamn rent.''
 In Mr. Silverstein's eyes, the Port Authority had violated accepted ''codes of conduct'' by walking away from the negotiating table. He felt insulted by what followed: Mr. Pataki said that the developer had ''betrayed the public trust.'' Mr. Gargano, the governor's senior adviser, called Mr. Silverstein ''greedy.'' 
 ''After I cooled down,'' Mr. Silverstein said, ''I said to myself, 'It's a good thing I'm 74 going on 75.' Because if I were 20 years younger, I would have exploded and told them all to go fly a kite and we would have ended up in litigation and the truth of the matter is, that would have been wrong.''
 Indeed, the two sides were back at the negotiating table within a few days, and this time the negotiations included the city and the State of New Jersey. By the end of April, Mr. Pataki, Mr. Bloomberg and Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey presented Mr. Silverstein with two choices in a take-it-or-leave-it offer.
 Mr. Silverstein turned down the first choice: $50 million in cash plus the Deutsche Bank property to walk away from the World Trade Center. 
 Under the offer that he ended up accepting, Mr. Silverstein would retain three towers and 6.2 million square feet of office space on Church Street, with promises of government leases and some $2.6 billion in Liberty Bonds. For a reduction in rent and an approximately $20 million developers' fee, he would cede control of the 2.6-million-square-foot Freedom Tower and the Deutsche Bank property, which might become a hotel and residential building, to the Port Authority. And he would promise to adhere to a strict construction schedule.
 In order to take on the Freedom Tower, the Port Authority, although it can issue bonds itself, demanded some $700 million in Liberty Bonds, about a third of the remaining insurance proceeds and a guarantee of 1 million square feet in tenants, which Mr. Pataki promised to secure from government agencies. The Port Authority does not plan to move its own offices into the 1,776-foot building but rather into one of Mr. Silverstein's shorter towers on Church Street.
 As part of the deal, the Port Authority made a pledge to set aside $100 million for the memorial. That will go toward infrastructure costs that many thought to be the Port's responsibility all along -- including Mr. Coscia, who said that he was a ''chorus of one on that issue until I got Corzine on board and he said that he wouldn't allow his commissioners to vote in favor of the agreement unless that was in there.'' (The Port Authority later agreed to pay for an additional $50 million in infrastructure costs.)
 On April 27, with the specifics of the deal still to be negotiated, Mr. Pataki, Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Silverstein gathered at ground zero to proclaim the start of construction on the Freedom Tower. And then Mr. Pataki, who is contemplating a presidential bid, left for a two-day trip to New Hampshire.

THE MEMORIAL UNDER ATTACK
 Two years after the development corporation took over the Deutsche Bank building, it still loomed over ground zero, as if defying the site to be redeveloped. Its demolition had not proved straightforward at all; the building had been highly contaminated, and, making matters worse, more than 750 human bone fragments were discovered on its roof and in its air vents.
 Reluctantly and sometimes resentfully, development officials confronted horrified families, anxious community residents and zealous environmental regulators. The project's anticipated cost rose to $207 million, and delay followed delay while some family advocates took to the streets.
 One week, they called for an elite military unit that specializes in the identification of human remains to be enlisted in the Deutsche Bank project. The next week, they held vigils to protest the underground components of the memorial.
 The two issues converged briefly on the battlefield of muddy emotions. And tensions over the memorial, which by then was under attack from families, preservationists, politicians, security experts and Mr. Arad himself, finally boiled over. 
 At City Hall in late March, Councilman Alan Jay Gerson conducted a hearing on the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan, which, Mr. Gerson said, the development corporation would not allow Mr. Arad to attend.
 ''What do the families want?'' Ms. Regenhard said at the hearing, in a short speech that touched all the hot buttons: the perceived elitism and secretiveness of the process, safety and security, cost. ''We want a memorial that's above the ground. We want the names above the ground. We want a safe and secure memorial that's built under the legal jurisdiction of the New York City building and fire codes. We don't want this convoluted multimillion- and billion-dollar, really meshuggeneh idea, O.K.?''
 In a play on Mr. Arad's name for his design, Ms. Iken protested that the memorial did not reflect absence but an absence of leadership. Mr. Gerson pressed development officials on the names issue. Preservationists complained that tanks, pumps and other mechanical support for the memorial would desecrate the footprints of the towers.
 The language was fierce. Referring to a proposed underground family room, Robert J. Kornfeld Jr., an architect representing the Historic Districts Council, described a windowless space wedged between a train track, water tanks and a medical examiner's office. ''I can't imagine why anyone would ever go there other than to shoot themselves,'' he said.
 Into this volatile climate, a leaked letter written by Mr. Kallstrom, Mr. Pataki's counterterrorism adviser, landed like a torpedo. In it, Mr. Kallstrom expressed concerns that the memorial would be vulnerable to attack. 
 In May, a cost analysis overseen by Mr. Betts produced a staggering estimate of $972 million, of which $672 million represented the memorial and memorial museum and the rest infrastructure costs.
 Mr. Bloomberg drew a line in the sand. He called for a $500 million cap on spending for the memorial, speaking, he said, on behalf of Governor Pataki and Governor Corzine, too.
 In May, Mr. Whitehead, after almost five years, stepped down as chairman of the development corporation and Ms. Dykstra resigned after only a year as president of the memorial foundation. 
 Weary of the turmoil and with the fifth anniversary of the attack approaching, political leaders wanted to resolve the problems with the memorial just as they had restructured the commercial portion of the site. Frank J. Sciame, a builder who had lost a bid to construct the memorial, was given the task of streamlining the memorial in a way that would cut costs and appease family critics both.
 His final cost estimate for the memorial, which called for the elimination of six of eight underground galleries, came out to about $740 million: $510 million for the memorial and the memorial museum, $80 million for a visitors' center and the rest for infrastructure. But that figure is already being revised upward.
 Hours before that resolution was made public in late June, Mr. Sciame, Mr. Cahill and Mr. Rampe met with Mr. Arad and asked him if he would publicly challenge the decision to eliminate the underground galleries that he considered a fundamental part of his concept. Happily for them, Mr. Arad had already resigned himself to what was coming, having decided that going public with his discontent ''would satisfy nothing but my own feelings.''

'MAYBE SAD IS A BETTER WORD'
 In his spacious office high above Midtown, Mr. Whitehead sat surrounded by a careerlong arsenal of photographs of himself with world leaders. And then there was the framed picture of Brad Pitt. 
 Inside a bag over Mr. Pitt's shoulder was a flash of blue, the back cover of Mr. Whitehead's autobiography, ''A Life in Leadership, From D-Day to Ground Zero.'' Mr. Pitt, it seems, borrowed the book from his girlfriend, Angelina Jolie, whom Mr. Whitehead got to know during the filming of ''The Good Shepherd,'' a movie in which ''my friend Bobby De Niro'' gave him a small role as a priest.
 Robert De Niro himself has played a role in the making of the Sept. 11 memorial as a board member on the memorial foundation. His Tribeca Film Festival benefited from a $3 million grant from the development corporation, and he and partners received $38.9 million in Liberty Bonds to finance a luxury hotel downtown.
 After Mr. Whitehead stepped down as chairman of the development corporation last spring, a colleague mentioned that he felt despondent. Asked if this were accurate, Mr. Whitehead said, ''Yes. I felt responsible. Here I had this job, which gave me responsibility for rebuilding, and I couldn't complete it. Now, despondent is sort of a medical problem. Maybe sad is a better word. I felt sad that a lot of things had gone wrong and I hadn't been able to set them right.''
 After Mr. Whitehead's resignation, Eliot Spitzer, who is running to succeed the governor, publicly declared the development corporation a failure.
 At the end of July, the development corporation announced that it was shutting down. It had, it said, completed its mission. Mr. Spitzer called that declaration ''one of the great Orwellian moments of the decade.'' 
 After the corporation's announcement, Mr. Whitehead sent this reporter an e-mail message, saying that, upon reflection, he realized how much it really had accomplished, from conducting more than 200 public hearings to producing a master plan that, he said, ''has endured.''
 For rebuilding officials, progress is the message of this fifth anniversary.
 Mr. Pataki said that the vicissitudes of this difficult process would be forgotten with time. One day, he said, the site will be magnificent. ''History will write that story, maybe not on Sept. 11, 2006,'' he said.
 But there are a lot of hurdles to clear between now and history.
 The future of the memorial probably demands some resolution of the names issue. In the recent redesign, the names of the dead were raised to street level, which greatly placated the families. But because the names were left in random order, Ms. Lutnick says that major family groups will not endorse the memorial as is, and that no fund-raising drive is likely to succeed without their support.
 The future of a performing arts center at ground zero, for which the development corporation hired Frank Gehry as architect, remains unclear, with only $50 million set aside for its creation. 
 Even the future of the Freedom Tower, which many downtown business people consider a potential white elephant, is still uncertain. If the governor does not secure the promised 1 million square feet in government leases at market rates, the tower's construction could be suspended after it is brought up to street level, according to Mr. Coscia, chairman of the Port Authority. 
 ''I'm not a fan of the Freedom Tower if it could financially impair the port,'' Mr. Coscia said.
 Only the PATH station and Mr. Silverstein's three office towers seem securely on track, signaling that at the end of the day, real control of the site has returned to its technical owners, the Port Authority and Mr. Silverstein.
 The Port Authority, which sought to divest itself of responsibility for the World Trade Center five years ago, will end up fully immersed in a site two acres bigger than the original. In addition to building the train station, it will now construct the memorial and two of the five towers. 
 All summer, facing the deadline of a Sept. 21 board meeting, the Port Authority and Mr. Silverstein have been embrangled in difficult negotiations to finalize their April agreement. While Mr. Pataki pressed them to conclude by Sept. 11, it proved impossible.
 On Thursday, it fell to Mr. Silverstein, who said the five-year planning process ''should have made me a manic-depressive by now,'' to deliver news of progress in time for today's anniversary.
 With the governor by his side, Mr. Silverstein unveiled the designs of Towers 2, 3 and 4 by three renowned architects of his generation -- Fumihiko Maki, 78, of Tokyo, and Richard Rogers, 73, and Norman Foster, 71, of London.
 For the first time, there was a complete image of ground zero reborn. Monumental and densely packed, it did not overtly resemble Mr. Libeskind's ascending spiral of glass structures. And, with one glance, it raised the lingering issue of whether Lower Manhattan will be able to absorb 8.8 million square feet of new office space. 
 But it looked tangible, like something that could actually take shape.
 Mr. Libeskind says he retains faith that the new World Trade Center will be ''memorable'' because of the combined talents -- ''It's not some schlock architects'' -- joined together under the umbrella of his master plan. 
 Yet he worries that the city's passion for the project has dissipated, that the urgency and idealism have faded.
 ''For many, Sept. 11 has become very abstract,'' he said. ''People forget already what this was all about. They think it's about pretty facades and square-footage prices. They don't remember anymore that it's about people who perished, it's about America, it's about some pretty big ideas.''

 JOHN C. WHITEHEAD, former chairman, Lower Manhattan Development Corporation (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. F8)

Chart/Map:

FREEDOM TOWER
COMPLETION 2011
COST $2 BILLION
DESIGNER: David M. Childs
Building footprint was moved to be 65 feet away from West S treet because of security concerns.

WORLD TRADE CENTER PATH TERMINAL
COMPLETION 2011
COST $2.2 BILLION.
DESIGNER: Santiago Calatrava, Downtown Design Partnership

WORLD TRADE CENTER MEMORIAL COMPLEX
COMPLETION 2009
COST $740 MILLION
DESIGNER: Michael Arad

VISITOR, ORIENTATION AND EDUCATION CENTER
DESIGNER: Craig Dykers, Snohetta

7 WORLD TRADE CENTER
OPENED MAY 2006
COST $700 MILLION
DESIGNER: David M. Childs, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill

PERFORMING ARTS CENTER
DESIGNER: Frank Gehry, Gehry Partners

200 GREENWICH STREET
TOWER 2
COMPLETION 2012
DESIGNER: Norman Foster, Foster & Partners

175 GREENWICH STREET
TOWER 3
COMPLETION 2011
DESIGNER: Richard Rogers, Richard Rogers Partnership

150 GREENWICH STREET
TOWER 4
COMPLETION 2011
DESIGNER: Fumihiko Maki, Maki & Associates

130 LIBERTY STREET -- The former Deutsche Bank building was heavily damaged and contaminated on Sept. 11. It will be demolished and is the future site of Tower 5.

Maps of the site surrounding the World Trade Center highlighting the aforementioed locations and the Planned Pedestrian Network.

(Mika Grondahl/The New York Times; July 2006 satellite image by Digital Globe; building renderings from the firms)
(Sources by Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, Port Authority of New York and New Jersey)(pg. F8)

Chart/Photos:

CHARACTERS: PLANNERS, BUILDERS

Larry A. Silverstein
He is a real estate developer with a lease on the World Trade Center.

Kevin M. Rampe
President of the L.M.D.C. when the site plan and memorial are selected.

Roland W. Betts
Chairman of Chelsea Piers. His L.M.D.C. committee selects a master plan with two huge latticework towers.

John C. Whitehead
Formerly of Goldman Sachs. He becomes L.M.D.C. chairman.

SURVIVORS

Thomas S. Johnson
His son dies on 9/11. He is an L.M.D.C. director, and he helps set up the memorial competition.

Monica Iken
Her husband dies on 9/11. Her group advocates a fitting memorial.

AGENCIES

Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
Builder and owner of the World Trade Center. It manages regional transportation facilities.

Lower Manhattan Development Corporation (L.M.D.C.)
A city-state agency that oversees rebuilding.

ARCHITECTS

David M. Childs
Architect at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. Designer of 7 World Trade Center and Freedom Tower.

Daniel Libeskind
Architect who creates the master plan for ground zero. His influence wanes over time.

Michael Arad
His memorial proposal, ''Reflecting Absence,'' is chosen after he teams with the landscape architect Peter Walker.

BUILDINGS

Freedom Tower
Previously called the 1776 tower, renamed by Mr. Pataki. The antenna is to reach 1,776 feet.

Deutsche Bank building
On 9/11, it suffers heavy damage and contamination, but demolition plans stall, and it still stands at 130 Liberty St.

World Trade Center PATH Terminal
A $2.2 billion transportation hub that serves only a fifth of the commuter volume at Grand Central.

(pgs. F4, F5)

Chart/Photos:

2001

Ground Zero Interests
Fervent debate over ground zero begins.The Port Authority quietly decides to rebuild the office complex.

July
Mr. Silverstein leases the World Trade Center. The rent to the Port Authority is $10 million a month.

Nov.
Lower Manhattan Development Corporation (L.M.D.C.) is created.

Dec.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani describes a ''soaring, monumental, beautiful memorial.''

2002

Bland Plans
The first batch of site plans is criticized as unimaginative at a ''Listening to the City'' meeting.

Memorial Mandate
Victims' families start to organize. Gov. George E. Pataki declares the World Trade Center tower footprints sacred.

Jan.
As ground zero cleanup speeds along, Mr. Whitehead says, ''We don't want that hole to be sitting there with nothing going on.''

Jan.
Ms. Iken says, ''I want to be able to grieve I'm afraid while I'm doing that they are going to start building.''

June
Mr. Pataki says, ''Where the towers stood is hallowed ground.''

July
L.M.D.C. and Port Authority unveil and discard six site plans.

August
L.M.D.C. announces a global competition for the site plan.

2003

New Visions
A design competition produces many qualified entries. In the end, Mr. Betts's team settles on the Think proposal. Mr. Pataki chooses Mr. Libeskind instead.

Forced Marriage
Mr. Childs and Mr. Libeskind develop tower designs. Ultimately, Mr. Childs alters his design to accommodate Mr. Libeskind's spire.

Feb.
Two finalists emerge.

Feb.
Mr. Pataki agrees with those who describe the Think plan as skeletons.

April
L.M.D.C. announces a memorial design competition.

May
Mr. Silverstein says Mr. Libeskind will inspire but not design the buildings.

July
5,201 proposals are submitted for the 9/11 memorial competition.

Dec.
Mr. Pataki intervenes to keep Mr. Libeskind and Mr. Childs on track.

2004

Memorial Designs
Michael Arad's original design is a barren landscape with reflecting pools. He accepts a design partner and adds trees and cultural buildings to the plaza.

Jan.
Mr. Arad's ''Reflecting Absence'' wins the memorial competition.

Feb.
L.M.D.C. will buy Deutsche Bank building and demolish it.

June
International Freedom Center is selected as a cultural anchor on the site.

July
Mr. Pataki lays Freedom Tower cornerstone.

August
The Police Department alerts the Port Authority with Freedom Tower security concerns.

2005

An Unraveling
Security concerns force a Freedom Tower redesign. The L.M.D.C. loses top officials, including Mr. Betts, and Mr. Pataki forces a museum from the complex. The process stalls.

May
Mr. Pataki announces a Freedom Tower redesign to address security concerns.

June
Critics say the Freedom Center dishonors victims. Mr. Pataki demands guarantees from the center.

Sept.
Mr. Pataki evicts the Freedom Center.

Santiago
Calatrava's PATH Terminal has its groundbreaking.

Oct.
Mr. Bloomberg says, ''It would be in the city'sinterest to get Silverstein out.''

Nov.
Mr. Bloomberg cruises to re-election.

2006

After Five Years
Governor Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg push Mr. Silverstein to cede two towers. The Port Authority retakes control of portions of the site. Construction begins on Freedom Tower. In the end, most of the office space in the original World Trade Center is set to be restored.

Jan.
Human remains begin to be found at the former Deutsche Bank building.

March
Pataki advisers tell Mr. Silverstein to build or leave.

April
Mr. Silverstein agrees to yield control of the Freedom Tower and former Deutsche Bank building to the Port Authority.

May
Seven World Trade Center opens. July L.M.D.C. says it is closing. Port Authority takes over memorial's construction.

Sept.
Designs for Mr. Silverstein's three towers are unveiled.

(Steve Duenes/The New York Times; photographs by Aaron Lee Fineman [ground zero];Silverstein Properties [2006 site rendering]; Lower Manhattan Development Corporation [other renderings])

(pgs. F4, F5)

CORRECTION-DATE: September 18, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The special section Broken Ground last Monday misidentified the birthplace of Rafael Vinoly, one of the architects who submitted designs for a master plan for the World Trade Center site. It is Uruguay, not Argentina.

GRAPHIC: Photos: FIVE YEARS LATER -- Ground zero at noon on Aug. 16, 2006, in a photograph taken from a helicopter directly overhead. Extensive planning has left little to show. (Photo by VINCENT LAFORET FOR The New York Times)(pg. F1)
(Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
''The sun is beginning to come through, the sky is beginning to clear and the ship is going to make it.'' LARRY A. SILVERSTEIN, developer (pg. F3)
''They're going to build over dead people. I can't let that happen. I have to go on a mission.'' MONICA IKEN founder, ''September's Mission'' (pg. F4)
''Call Berlin. Drop everything we're doing. I have a complete vision of what should be.'' DANIEL LIBESKIND, to his wife and partner, Nina (pg. F5)
(Photo by Michael Falco for The New York Times)
Facing constant demands to alter the design for a memorial, ''I tried to find a path between resistance and accommodation.'' MICHAEL ARAD, architect (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. F6)
(Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
''We never should have moved forward with so many conflicting stakes on this piece of real estate.'' ROLAND W. BETTS, former board member, Lower Manhattan Development Corporation (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. F7)
(Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
Gov. George E. Pataki has been a frequent host of ceremonies at the trade center site. Last month, he signed three bills to help emergency workers who may have suffered during the rescue and cleanup. (pg. F10)
 ''I felt sad that a lot of things had gone wrong and I hadn't been able to set them right.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); HEART DISEASE (64%); HIJACKING (64%); TERRORISM (61%); GOVERNORS (58%) Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Area Planning and Renewal; Special Sections

ORGANIZATION: New York Times

PERSON: Deborah Sontag; Clifford J Levy; Jenny Nordberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006



224 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 370 words

 BODY:

STEADY STREAM -- OPEC will meet in Vienna, and it is expected to keep its oil output quota unchanged at 28 million barrels a day. The price of crude oil has dipped a bit from recent record highs, but probably not enough for OPEC to curtail production, a move that would most likely anger many nations. (Monday.) 


WHERE THERE'S SMOKE -- Judge Jack B. Weinstein of Federal District Court in Brooklyn will decide whether to certify as a class action a lawsuit contending that tobacco companies defrauded consumers with claims about ''light'' cigarettes. (Wednesday.) Lawyers for plaintiffs say their clients were duped into believing that the cigarettes were healthier than regular ones. Judge Weinstein previously tried to organize a single high-stakes trial over the harms of cigarettes, but was rebuffed by an appellate panel.

MORE CUTS AT FORD -- The board of the Ford Motor Company will meet, and an announcement is expected soon afterward on additional cost-cutting as part of a turnaround plan. (Thursday.) Ford is already in the process of closing 14 plants and cutting 30,000 jobs under its Way Forward restructuring program, and the new plan is expected to widen the effort. Last week William Clay Ford Jr., the great-grandson of the company's founder, hired an outsider, Alan R. Mulally, formerly of Boeing, as chief executive and president.

ECONOMIC INDICATORS -- The release of the Consumer Price Index for August will provide an updated snapshot of inflation, with implications for the Federal Open Market Committee's decision on interest rates later this month. (Monday.) Other reports: the trade deficit for July (Tuesday); retail sales for August, import prices for August and business inventories for July (Thursday); and industrial production and capacity utilization for August along with the first reading of the University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday).

EARNINGS HERE AND THERE -- A few companies -- most notably some big Wall Street companies -- will report results this week. They include: Campbell Soup (Monday); Best Buy, Goldman Sachs and the Kroger Company (Tuesday); Lehman Brothers and Navistar International (Wednesday); and Adobe Systems, Bear Stearns and Pier 1 Imports (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); IMPORT PRICES (77%); TOBACCO MFG (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); LITIGATION (76%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (75%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); LAWYERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MONETARY POLICY (64%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (64%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); RETAIL SALES (50%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (63%); KROGER CO (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); BOEING CO (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%); NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (52%); PIER 1 IMPORTS INC (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (91%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (63%); ADB (FRA) (63%); KR (NYSE) (63%); GS (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); NAV (NYSE) (52%); PIR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (63%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (63%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (52%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS453998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS STORE RETAILERS (EXCEPT TOBACCO STORES) (51%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (51%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (51%); SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (51%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (51%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) AUSTRIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006



225 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: An Industry Is Based on a Simple Masquerade

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL and MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
When Patrick Baird, a private detective in Granbury, Tex., was hunting a runaway or helping a husband find out if his wife was cheating, he would often look for clues in telephone records. He bought them from firms that specialized in obtaining them, and says he did not ask about their methods. 
 But late last year, as scrutiny of such firms and their often deceptive practices heated up, Mr. Baird stopped giving them business.
''If my own mother came to me and said 'I need this done,' I couldn't do it,'' he said in an interview last week. ''We're abiding by public opinion here.'' 
 People who obtain calling records often use a technique known as pretexting -- using a pretext, like masquerading as a customer, to get a company to disclose information. Their shady subculture has been getting renewed attention since the revelation last week that a subcontractor for an investigative firm working for Hewlett-Packard used pretexting to obtain the call records of company board members and reporters.
 It is hard to quantify the size of the telephone pretexting economy. But in recent years it has turned into a small industry, with dozens of Web sites offering calling records to anyone with a credit card, for a modest fee. Their main customers appear to be private investigators, although some in that field criticize the practice.
 ''Web sites came out of the woodwork like locusts in the last five to seven years,'' said Eddy L. McClain, past president of the National Council of Investigation and Security Services, a trade group. ''It was too tempting for many investigators not to take that shortcut.''
 Pretexting ''is at a minimum unethical and at a maximum unlawful,'' Mr. McClain said. ''It is a real smear on our profession.''
 Pretexters often use techniques similar to those employed by identity thieves to obtain not only telephone records but also other private data. Robert Douglas, an information security consultant and former private detective, said they often called telephone companies armed with some personal information, like a customer's Social Security number, mailing address or date of birth. Then they charm and cajole the phone company employee into thinking they are the actual customer. 
 ''They have the knack,'' Mr. Douglas said. ''It's more art than science.''
 Many professionals pretexters, including those who have used the practice to build lucrative data brokering businesses, are reluctant to discuss their methods. At a Congressional hearing in June, 11 of the witnesses who were called refused to answer questions, invoking their Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination. 
 But two others agreed to speak. One of them was David Gandal of Loveland, Colo., whose business, Shpondow.com, helps repossession companies find cars whose owners have defaulted on their loans.
 Mr. Gandal said in an interview that he used pretexting to obtain cellphone records, when necessary, until last year. He stopped, in part, because carriers began suing some pretexters. But there was nothing difficult about getting cellphone records, Mr. Gandal said. 
 ''All you need is the last four digits of a Social Security number and a correct ZIP code,'' he said. ''You go to the wireless company's Web site, you sign up like you are that person, you can view the bill.''
 In most cases, Mr. Gandal said, he already had the Social Security number from the lien holder. But if necessary, he could find it in commercial databases. To demonstrate, he asked a reporter his full name and state of residence and read him back his Social Security number within seconds. 
 Another witness at the June hearing, James Rapp, a former data broker from Colorado with a long history of run-ins with law enforcement, described how he used pretexting to gather all sorts of information: addresses linked to a specific phone number from the telephone company, Social Security numbers from credit reporting agencies, and an address and phone number from a utility company.
 Mr. Rapp explained how he might call the utility company pretending to be a customer with a gas leak. He would then give the operator a false address for that customer, only to have the operator correct him. ''They're going to say, 'Oh, well, we have you over here, 144 Northwest,' whatever,'' Mr. Rapp told the committee, according to a transcript. With a bit more subterfuge he could easily get the customer's phone number as well. 
 At the hearing, Representative Edward Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican who is chairman of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, said that research had showed that in addition to private investigators, lawyers and tabloids, the customers of these data brokers included ''automobile finance companies and repossession companies and major banks and major corporations around America.''
 The Federal Trade Commission, some state legislatures and telephone companies have all tried to shut the industry down, with mixed success so far. Many Web sites that sold calling records have disappeared, but experts say many pretexters remain in business.
 ''Part of the problem is that there is still no law at the federal level making it clear that the activity is illegal,'' said Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center. 
 Using pretexting to obtain financial records was made illegal in 1999. Many legal experts say that pretexting to get phone records is already illegal under federal and state laws against fraud, but Congress is considering bills that would make this more explicit. 
 The California Legislature has passed a bill that makes it unlawful to obtain phone records by fraud or deceit, and to buy or sell someone's phone records without their consent. The bill has not yet been signed by Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. 
 The F.T.C. has filed suits against several pretexters under laws barring unfair and deceptive practices. AT&T, Cingular, Verizon and other companies have also sued dozens of people whom they accuse of fraudulently obtaining phone records. 
 And some carriers have changed the way they do business in an attempt to thwart pretexters. Last year Verizon stopped asking customers for their Social Security numbers as a chief way to establish their identity, said Eric Rabe, a Verizon spokesman. Instead, he said, the company is asking people to provide information that is on their phone bill, like an account number. Verizon is also teaching customer service representatives what they should look for to identify possible pretexters, Mr. Rabe said.
 The new vigilance comes at a price. Customers often want to get information quickly and are impatient when they have to put up with a series of questions to establish their identity. Mr. Rabe said.
 Walt Sharp, a spokesman for AT&T, said his company continued to accept Social Security numbers as a central means of identification. ''That's generally something known only to customers, or it should be,'' Mr. Sharp said. 
 Mr. Douglas, the security consultant, agreed that the carriers faced a tough balancing act. ''We're in the McDonald's generation. Everybody wants information and they don't want to wait for it,'' he said. ''That's why these guys win.''
 No system is foolproof if a wily pretexter knows how to convince a company representative that he is a customer who is desperate for account information, Mr. Douglas said. This person might say he is on a business trip, without access to account information, but needs to check his records quickly. 
 ''You come up with a plausible scenario as to why you need the information now,'' he said.
 Mr. Baird, who operates a detective agency with three employees, said he did not know if the people he paid for phone records used duplicitous means to get records, though he assumed that their approach may have involved pretexting. He said he once regularly contracted with various companies and people that charged $110 to $175 for sets of records. The records, he said, were of use in many instances, such as tracking runaways, helping insurance companies ferret out fraud or helping the police determine if a criminal suspect was having conversations with another bad actor. 
 ''It's an issue for law enforcement wanting to move on something early and we were able to give them a direction while they're waiting for a subpoena,'' Mr. Baird said. He said that he stopped trying to obtain phone records because of the negative attention it has received, and the uncertainty about whether obtaining them was legal.
 Mr. Baird said he felt that his and other detective agencies were using the phone records in beneficial and legitimate ways. The decision to stop using them has cost him in lost business, though he declined to say how much. ''We'll leave it alone and let Congress figure it out,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert Douglas, a security consultant, says no system will stop every use of pretext. (Photo by Matt Staver for The New York Times)(pg. C6)Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (89%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); ETHICS (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (79%); INTERNET PRIVACY (78%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); WIRETAPPING (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); IDENTITY THEFT (74%); REPOSSESSION (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (71%); WITNESSES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (66%); SOCIAL SECURITY (66%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (62%); LEGISLATION (61%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Frauds and Swindling; Computers and the Internet; Ethics; Law and Legislation; Detectives (Private); Cellular Telephones; Telephones and Telecommunications; News and News Media; Wiretapping and Other Eavesdropping Devices and Methods; Boards of Directors; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Federal Trade Commission; Hewlett-Packard Co; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: Miguel Helft; Matt Richtel; Patricia C Dunn; George A II Keyworth; Thomas J Perkins

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006



226 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Vows Meet Reality in Newark 

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

DATELINE: NEWARK, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
Shortly before leaving City Hall after two decades in office, Mayor Sharpe James merrily announced a $30 million surplus last spring, promising residents of this struggling city a 5 percent cut in property taxes. Two months later, state auditors declared the black ink a mirage, leaving Mr. James's successor, Cory A. Booker, with what turned out to be a $44 million hole. 
 ''It's really a cruel joke,'' Mr. Booker said recently in an interview. ''You win an election, come into office and you're left to clean up the previous administration's mess.''
So as Mr. Booker ends his third month as mayor, his grand dreams for a safer, cleaner and more prosperous Newark are colliding with the reality of the city's troubled finances. Having won the election on a platform of fine promises, Mr. Booker is instead being forced to reduce services and raise taxes. In the $697 million budget he presented late last month for the current fiscal year, which ends on Dec. 31, the mayor proposed an 8.3 percent rise in property taxes, an average of $322 for every homeowner. 
 ''We're three-fourths through the year, so there's no way to make smart cuts for 2006,'' explained Bo Kemp, the city's business administrator. Sitting in his City Hall office as water dripped from the ceiling into a trash can, Mr. Kemp said that the administration expected to introduce the 2007 budget -- one the administration has vowed will have no tax increases -- toward the end of the year. ''That's when the real cuts begin,'' he said.
 Mr. Booker, a former member of the Municipal Council -- which must approve the mayor's budgets -- said that he knew the city's finances were less than stellar, but Mr. James's talk of a surplus made him think he would have more of a cushion.
 Instead, the state Department of Community Affairs, which reviews and approves municipal budgets, ruled that the James administration's accounting was full of inconsistencies and questionable math. In early July, a few days after Mr. Booker celebrated his inauguration, the state ordered the city to scrap the 2006 budget and start again.
 To state officials, the most worrisome figure was $80 million that Mr. James had slated for a pair of private organizations he would have controlled after leaving office. Gov. Jon S. Corzine was so alarmed that he summoned Mr. James and the then-council members to Trenton for a public reprimand that was recorded by television news cameras. The state ordered the city to rescind the appropriations to the groups.
 Mr. James, who declined to run for a sixth term, did not return calls made to his home and his office at Essex County College, where he is a professor. 
 City Hall's new occupants say they have had a hard time figuring out exactly how the city balanced its books all these years. 
 In recent weeks, employees have discovered unpaid invoices from as far back as 2001, unsent water bills and welfare recipients who turned out to be dead. Dan O'Flaherty, the city's acting finance director, said the previous administration had more than 4,000 employees and millions of dollars in outside contracts but only one internal auditor. Mr. Booker has added four auditors and hired a small army of forensic accountants. 
 ''We're still learning every day what perils lie around the corner,'' said Mr. O'Flaherty, an economics professor at Columbia University who has been studying the city's finances for three decades. ''For the longest time, the city was paddling down a river, approaching a waterfall and paddling faster and faster in that direction.''
 Mr. Booker has characterized some of his predecessor's actions as gluttonous, or worse. 
 In the waning days of his administration, Mr. James and a score of his employees took more than $650,000 in compensation for unused vacation and sick time, according to council records. Shortly before he left office, the mayor and council -- all but two of whom were voted out -- handed out millions of dollars to people whom Mr. Booker describes as their friends and political allies. And two weeks ago, federal and state authorities began investigating at least $80,000 in purchases that the former mayor charged to municipal credit cards for trips to Brazil, Martha's Vineyard and Puerto Rico. 
 Asked about the travel expenses during a public event last week, Mr. James defended the trips -- along with city-funded meals and concerts closer to home -- as mayoral expenses.
 In the meantime, Mr. Booker and his staff have been left to explain to a wary public how a putative surplus turned into a yawning deficit. 
 The main culprit, the new mayor contends, is the previous administration's use of $400 million bestowed upon it four years ago by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the agency that operates Newark Liberty International Airport. Nearly half that money, which resulted from a settlement between the city and the agency, has gone toward the construction of the hockey arena that is rising next to City Hall. But the rest -- $40 million to $60 million each year -- has been used to pay for an ever-expanding budget.
 When the money runs out three years from now, around the time Mr. Booker is up for re-election, the city could find itself more than $200 million in the hole. ''If we continue to look at our budgets in one-year isolation, we're going to find ourselves in a financial freefall,'' Mr. Booker said. 
 Susan Bass Levin, the state Department of Consumer Affairs commissioner, said municipalities were not required to take a multiyear approach to budgeting, but that it was encouraged. ''I think it's fair to say that the new mayor and council have a lot of painful decisions to make,'' she said, ''but they seem committed to getting the city on the right track.'' 
 Keenly aware of his post-election honeymoon, Mr. Booker is choosing to impose the pain early in his tenure and hoping his ambitious plans for the city will bear fruit before voters return to the polls in 2010. 
 At this point, Newark is one of the nation's poorest cities. Violent crime remains high, unemployment is rampant and the city's public buildings are in deplorable shape. Despite the budget shortfall, Mr. Booker has promised 60 new police officers this year. He also plans to install a system of video surveillance cameras in the city's most dangerous neighborhoods, and pledged to build more police station houses. 
 Even if the city manages to scrimp and wring out waste, it can expect a $30 million increase each year in mandated health insurance and pension costs. And with the state's finances in disarray, the city can no longer rely on the $20 million or so infusion it has traditionally received each year from Trenton. 
 ''All across New Jersey, towns and cities are being forced to raise property taxes to pay for things the state and federal government should be paying for,'' said William Dressel, executive director of the New Jersey League of Municipalities. 
 Homeowners are predictably infuriated by the prospect of writing ever-larger checks to City Hall, especially since many are still digesting a 15 percent tax increase imposed in 2003 that came atop a citywide revaluation of property a year earlier. While the revaluation cut taxes for some, it doubled the burden for others.
 For property owners, many of whom live paycheck to paycheck, talk of multiyear budgeting and fiscal responsibility is cold comfort. Standing on a sidewalk flecked with blowing trash, Valentine Garcia, 76, said the proposed increase seemed nonsensical, given the poor level of services in his East Ward neighborhood. 
 ''All the politicians are the same, before and now,'' said Mr.Garcia, a 40-year Newark resident who owns several bodegas. ''They just want to take your money.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A broken window and lamppost at a Newark police station reflect the state of many city buildings. Budget deficits are hindering the mayor's grand plans. (Photo by Tim Larsen for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Newark faces high crime and unemployment, but its problems are even worse than Mayor Cory A. Booker realized when he took office in July. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY TAX (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); LITIGATION (74%); INTERVIEWS (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (60%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Property Taxes; Suits and Litigation; Elections; Election Issues 

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

PERSON: JON CORZINE (57%) Andrew Jacobs; Cory A (Mayor) Booker; Sharpe James

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Newark (NJ); Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006



227 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Costs to Increase For Wealthier Beneficiaries

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
Higher-income people will have to pay higher Medicare premiums than other beneficiaries next year, as the government takes a small but significant step to help the financially ailing program remain viable over the long term.
 The surcharge is a major departure from the traditional arrangement under which seniors have generally paid the same premium.
 It is expected to affect one million to two million beneficiaries: individuals with incomes exceeding $80,000 and married couples with more than $160,000 of income. For individuals with incomes over $200,000, the premium, now $88.50 a month, is expected to quadruple by 2009. 
 The surcharge was established under a little-noticed provision of the 2003 law that added a prescription drug benefit to Medicare.
 Supporters of the surcharge say it makes sense for wealthy people to pay more at a time when Medicare costs are soaring. But some Medicare experts worry that wealthy retirees will abandon the program and rely on private insurance instead, leaving poorer, sicker people in Medicare.
 The premium in question is for Part B of Medicare, a voluntary program that covers doctors' services, diagnostic tests and outpatient hospital care.
 ''The higher premiums could drive people with higher incomes out of Medicare,'' said Samuel M. Goodman, a 73-year-old retiree in Derwood, Md. ''Medicare would then become a welfare program, rather than a universal social insurance program, and it would be easier to attack.''
 Federal officials have repeatedly said that Medicare is financially unsustainable in its current form.
 Congress said the surcharge would ''begin to address fiscal challenges facing the program.''
 Joanne S. Shulman, who worked at the Social Security Administration for 35 years, said, ''The surcharge will come as a shock to many people because they have not received any warning.''
 Most beneficiaries now pay the same premium for Part B of Medicare. That amount has been increasing rapidly even without a surcharge. The standard premium has shot up an average of 12 percent a year since 2001, when it was $50 a month. 
 The premium is set each year to cover about 25 percent of projected spending under Part B of Medicare, which has been growing because of increases in the number and complexity of doctors' services. General tax revenues pay 75 percent of the cost.
 The Bush administration plans to announce the standard premium for 2007 later this month. In July, Medicare officials estimated that it would be $98.40 a month. The surcharge will be phased in from 2007 to 2009. 
 Here is how it will work: The surcharge for 2007 will be computed by the Social Security Administration, using income data obtained by the Internal Revenue Service from tax returns for 2005. If an individual has modified adjusted gross income of $80,000 to $100,000, the surcharge will be 13.3 percent, which adds about $13 to the monthly premium, for a total of about $111.50. For a single person with income of more than $200,000, the surcharge will be 73.3 percent, or about $72 a month, for a total premium of about $170.50.
 When the transition is complete in January 2009, according to Medicare actuaries, the total premium for a person with income of $80,000 to $100,000 will be 1.4 times the standard premium. A person with income of $100,000 to 150,000 will pay twice the standard premium. A person with income of $150,000 to $200,000 will pay 2.6 times the standard premium, and a beneficiary with more than $200,000 of income will pay 3.2 times the standard amount.
 If the basic premium rises 10 percent a year -- a relatively conservative forecast -- the most affluent beneficiaries will be paying premiums of more than $375 a month in 2009.
 Under current law, the $80,000 threshold and the income brackets will be adjusted each year to keep pace with inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index.
 President Bush recently proposed eliminating these annual adjustments, so that more people would pay a surcharge. ''This change gives beneficiaries increased participation in their health care,'' he said.
 More than 40 million people are in Part B. Medicare officials estimate that 2 percent of them will have to pay a surcharge next year. The Congressional Budget Office says 5 percent of beneficiaries will be affected. The Social Security Administration puts the figure at 4 percent to 5 percent. Most people have their premiums deducted from monthly Social Security checks. 
 Fiscally conservative Republicans supported the surcharge. But so did some Democrats, who saw it as a progressive way to finance Medicare without cutting benefits or raising payroll taxes.
 Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, argued that ''high-income beneficiaries can afford to pay a larger share of Medicare's costs,'' in part because Congress has cut their taxes in recent years.
 The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the surcharge will raise $15 billion from 2007 to 2013.
 Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of New York, recently introduced a bill to repeal the surcharge, which she says will hit ''more and more middle-class seniors.'' Some advocates for older Americans, including the Senior Citizens League, with 1.2 million members, are lobbying for repeal.
 A beneficiary can obtain relief from the surcharge by showing that the I.R.S. data was incorrect or that the person's income declined because of a ''major life-changing event'' like the death of a spouse or the loss of pension benefits.
 Theodore R. Marmor, a professor of political science at Yale, said the surcharge was more important for the politics of Medicare than for the financing of the program.
 ''The new income-related premium is fundamentally at odds with the premises of social insurance,'' Mr. Marmor said. ''Large numbers of upper-income people will eventually want to find alternatives to Part B of Medicare and will no longer be in the same pool with other people who are 65 and older or disabled. Congress will then have less reluctance to cut the program.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); AGING (77%); TAX LAW (74%); HOSPITALS (71%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (64%); MARRIAGE (56%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (52%) Medicine and Health; Medicare; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Aged; Doctors; Tests and Testing; Hospitals; Medicine and Health; Crime and Criminals; Robberies and Thefts; Murders and Attempted Murders

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%) Justice Department; Federal Bureau of Investigation

PERSON: Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006



228 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Diplomatic Memo; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Diatribes and Dialogue in Mideast for Annan

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
''It was the longest and most strenuous and most demanding trip that I have done in my 10 years in office,'' Secretary General Kofi Annan said last week of his just-ended 11-day Middle Eastern marathon.
 The trip was the kind of shuttle diplomacy that American secretaries of state used to do but could not now, given that there has been such a plunge in American credibility over Iraq and that two places Mr. Annan visited, Iran and Syria, are no-go zones for American officials.
At the same time, Mr. Annan and his aides had to struggle against their own perception problem. The United Nations, sometimes portrayed in the United States as standing in the way of American objectives, is often seen abroad as being much too close to America.
 From the outside, the trip was a whirl of motorcades twisting through streets hung with banners portraying the ''divine victory'' of Hezbollah's leader, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah; audiences with presidents, prime ministers and mullahs in grandiose palaces with courtiers seated in stiff formations around the national leader; and formal greetings at garden entrances with fountains sparkling in the sunlight. 
 Behind the pageantry, Mr. Annan made dozens of phone calls to leaders in the region, Europe and the United States. The results: the end of the Israeli blockade of Lebanon on Friday and the agreement by both Israel and Lebanon that Mr. Annan would be the broker of confidential negotiations in the coming weeks seeking the release of two Israeli soldiers held by Hezbollah.
 A daily contact was Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, the Bush administration official with whom Mr. Annan has a close association, offsetting his strained relations with John R. Bolton, the United States ambassador to the United Nations.
 The purpose of the swing through nine Middle East countries, the West Bank and stops in Brussels, Geneva and Madrid was to build support for the Security Council resolution that ended the fighting between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon. 
 In Damascus, Syria, Mr. Annan and his associates said they sat through a diatribe from Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian president, depicting the Western powers as bankrupt and powerless. They said he included in his list of Western failures the inability of the European Union to adopt a constitution -- a comment they said they found remarkable coming from a strongman leader with no known constitutional concerns of his own.
 Terje Roed-Larsen, one of Mr. Annan's Middle East envoys, said the United Nations team had made no demands of Mr. Assad, whose country finances and arms Hezbollah, but rather ''told him what was expected of him.'' Two days later, Walid al-Moallem, the Syrian foreign minister, called Mr. Annan in Qatar to say Syria was sending a battalion to the border with Lebanon to help the Lebanese Army and German inspection experts stationed there enforce an embargo on illegal arms.
 In Iran, which also finances and arms Hezbollah, the United Nations diplomats said, the tenor was one of supreme confidence. ''The Iranians told me, 'The West says we have to re-establish confidence with them,' '' Mr. Annan said. ''But they said, 'We think it's for the West to re-establish confidence with us.' '' The team listened as Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the Iranian president, told them that Iran was the dominant player in the region and would soon consign Britain and America to secondary roles.
 ''He said that Britain and America won the last world war, but they wouldn't win the next one, Iran would,'' said one of the aides, who said he could not comment for attribution on a private meeting.
 ''It wasn't the tone and content that stunned us,'' he said. ''It was the fact that he talked like he meant it and believed it. Remember, this is a man with very little exposure to the outside world.'' The Iranians offered no direct assurances about Hezbollah, but said they would cooperate in carrying out the Security Council resolution, which calls for disarming it in Lebanon.
 In their visits to all Arab capitals except Damascus, Mr. Annan's associates said they found deep concern over Iran and its pursuit of nuclear energy. ''It's the ancient rivalry between the Arabs and Persia that used to motivate this region returning now with force,'' one of them said.
 In discussing Iran's nuclear program, the Iranian negotiator Ali Larijani artfully claimed that, by rejecting Western demands to suspend it before entering negotiations over its purposes, Iran was simply acting in keeping with Mr. Annan's stated preference for unconditional talks. An Egyptian official said there was a local expression for this maneuver. ''They're trying to put the turban on Kofi,'' he said.
 In Jerusalem, the Annan team had to face the longtime distrust of the Israeli public over actions by the United Nations seen as favoring Palestinian claims. The diplomats said they were impressed by the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert, who, they said, cited a desire to be cooperative. ''Olmert's tough and direct,'' Mr. Roed-Larsen said. ''He admitted to us up front that he had constraints, which made it easer for us to help.''
 Mr. Annan's first stop was Lebanon, where he saw the destruction in Beirut's suburbs and the ruins of villages in southern Lebanon. He reported with some sympathy the growing frustration of Fouad Siniora, the prime minister, over the blockade of his country. ''When I spoke to Siniora the last time,'' Mr. Annan said in Amman, Jordan, ''he said he's getting really fed up. You know he's getting one condition after the other, and he says, 'What I want is for somebody to give me a clear indication of what needs to be done.' ''
 Mr. Siniora received it on Wednesday in a six-point plan composed by Mr. Annan involving sequenced steps by naval forces from Britain, France, Germany, Greece and Italy. The plan, which was also presented to Mr. Olmert, provided the Israelis the assurances they needed. Two days later, the blockade ended. 
 It was likely the last major diplomatic journey for Mr. Annan, who won a Nobel Peace Prize during his first five-year term but who has become more accustomed in recent years to being criticized for mismanagement. He will leave office on Dec. 31. During the trip, he mused about how he had no weapons, no troops, only the power of dialogue. That set him apart from all the leaders he was talking to, in a region where brazen show of muscle is the normal persuader. It also illustrated a founding idea of the United Nations: that an organization with no national agenda can bring together countries with competing agendas.
 ''Individual nations have individual views and they convince themselves they are right and they are so sure of what they say, and they don't want to budge because they feel if they budge, they will lose face,'' Mr. Annan said in an interview aboard his plane on Wednesday night while departing Ankara, Turkey. ''My job is to give them a ladder to climb down from the precipice.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEZBOLLAH (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ARMIES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); RELIGION (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%) Palestinians; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Armament, Defense and Military Forces

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%) Hezbollah; United Nations

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (57%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%); HASSAN NASRALLAH (55%) Warren Hoge; Kofi (Sec Gen) Annan

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (95%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); SYRIA (94%); LEBANON (94%); EUROPE (93%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); QATAR (79%); BELGIUM (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Israel; Lebanon; Europe; Israel

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006



229 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Promises Not Kept

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN; Bob Herbert is on vacation.

 BODY:
Five years ago, the nation rallied around a president who promised vengeance against those responsible for the atrocity of 9/11. Yet Osama bin Laden is still alive and at large. His trail, The Washington Post reports, has gone ''stone cold.'' Osama and his deputy, Ayman al-Zawahiri, are evidently secure enough in their hideaway that they can taunt us with professional-quality videos. 
 They certainly don't lack for places to stay. Pakistan's government has signed a truce with Islamic militants in North Waziristan, the province where bin Laden is presumed to be hiding. Although the Pakistanis say that this doesn't mean that bin Laden is immune from arrest, their claims aren't very credible. 
Meanwhile, much of Afghanistan has fallen back under the control of drug-dealing warlords and of the Taliban, which sheltered Al Qaeda before it was driven from Kabul. NATO's top commander has appealed for more troops; the top British commander in Afghanistan has said that fighting there is fiercer than in Iraq. And the numbers bear him out: since the beginning of 2006, the NATO force in Afghanistan has had a higher rate of fatalities than that suffered by coalition troops in Iraq.
 The path to this strategic defeat began with the failure to capture or kill bin Laden. Never mind the anti-Clinton hit piece, produced for ABC by a friend of Rush Limbaugh; there never was a clear shot at Osama before 9/11, let alone one rejected by Clinton officials. But there was a clear shot in December 2001, when Al Qaeda's leader was trapped in the caves of Tora Bora. He made his escape because the Pentagon refused to use American ground troops to cut him off. 
 No matter, declared President Bush: ''I truly am not that concerned about him,'' he said about bin Laden in March 2002, and more or less stopped mentioning Osama for the next four years. By the time he made his what-me-worry remarks -- just six months after 9/11 -- the pursuit of Al Qaeda had already been relegated to second-class status. A long report in yesterday's Washington Post adds detail to what has long been an open secret: early in 2002, the administration began pulling key resources, such as special forces units and unmanned aircraft, off the hunt for Al Qaeda's leaders, in preparation for the invasion of Iraq.
 At the same time, the administration balked at giving the new regime in Kabul the support it needed. As he often does, Mr. Bush said the right things: the history of conflict in Afghanistan, he declared in April 2002, has been ''one of initial success, followed by long years of floundering and ultimate failure. We're not going to repeat that mistake.'' 
 But he proceeded to do just that, neglecting Afghanistan in ways that foreshadowed the future calamity in Iraq. During the first 18 months after the Taliban were driven from power, the U.S.-led coalition provided no peacekeeping troops outside the capital city. Economic aid, in a destitute nation shattered by war, was minimal in the crucial first year, when the new government was trying to build legitimacy. And the result was the floundering and failure we see today. 
 How did it all go so wrong? The diversion of resources into a gratuitous war in Iraq is certainly a large part of the story. Although administration officials continue to insist that the invasion of Iraq somehow made sense as part of a broadly defined war on terror, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence has just released a report confirming that Saddam Hussein regarded Al Qaeda as a threat, not an ally; he even made attempts to capture Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. 
 But Iraq doesn't explain it all. Even though the Bush administration was secretly planning another war in early 2002, it could still have spared some troops to provide security and allocated more money to help the Karzai government. As in the case of planning for postwar Iraq, however, Bush officials apparently refused even to consider the possibility that things wouldn't go exactly the way they hoped. 
 These days most agonizing about the state of America's foreign policy is focused, understandably, on the new enemies we've made in Iraq. But let's not forget that the perpetrators of 9/11 are still at large, five years later, and that they have re-established a large safe haven.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (91%); TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); TALIBAN (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); RELIGION (55%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Orgn)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); PAUL KRUGMAN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%) Paul Krugman; Osama Bin Laden; Saddam (Pres) Hussein; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%) Afghanistan; Iraq; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006



230 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1859 words

HEADLINE: In Democrats' Fight for the House, New York Looks Less Promising 

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
In a year when Democrats hope to take control of the House of Representatives, New York would appear to be fertile ground for toppling Republican incumbents. Democrats have a statewide edge in enrollment, and a popular incumbent, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, is at the top of the party's ticket. 
 In fact, just a few months ago, Democrats envisioned significant gains in New York, perhaps picking up as many as four seats, possibly even five. But that goal now seems increasingly remote, and there is an emerging consensus among political analysts that the party's best chance for capturing a Republican seat is the battle to succeed Representative Sherwood L. Boehlert, one of the most liberal Republicans in Congress, who is retiring.
At the same time, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee plans to spend roughly $50 million on advertisements for races around the country, according to Republican estimates. But none of that money has been set aside for New York races, except for Mr. Boehlert's seat in the 24th District in the Utica area, according to Democrats involved in the races. 
 The shifting local fortunes for Democrats could have serious political implications beyond New York. The party needs 15 seats to take control of the House. Even one victory in New York would be an important step toward that goal, giving the Democrats a cushion if they lose elsewhere in the nation.
 The situation in New York is particularly surprising given the state's reputation as a Democratic bastion. National and state party officials have spent months trying to create buzz around those races. But Republican incumbents, in New York and elsewhere, have been trying to shift the focus of the races away from hostility toward the Bush administration to more local concerns, like the potential loss of federal aid to their districts if they lose veteran congressmen.
 Representative John E. Sweeney, one of the Republican incumbents, said the situation in New York demonstrated the drawbacks of the Democratic effort to present the midterm elections as a national referendum on President Bush and the policies of Republican leaders in Washington. ''Congressional races are local,'' he said. ''There can be superseding events like Watergate. But those are rare. These races really are a referendum on the people running.''
 In addition -- and perhaps most important -- the incumbents in New York are benefiting from being in legislative districts drawn to keep the Republican incumbents in place.
 The Democrats' inability to gain traction can be measured in the fund-raising disparity between them and Republicans, and is reflected in interviews with strategists in both parties and independent analysts. The national party assesses the strengths of a campaign according to several factors, including the ability of candidates to raise money on their own and their standing in polls. 
 Some Democrats argue that national party leaders are making a strategic mistake by not being more aggressive in contesting Congressional seats early in a heavily Democratic state like New York. This year in particular, strong campaigns by Eliot Spitzer and Mrs. Clinton, who are both expected to win primary races tomorrow by wide margins, could help generate a huge Democratic voter turnout on Election Day.
 Dan Maffei, a Democrat running against Representative James T. Walsh, a Republican representing the Syracuse region, argued in a recent interview that the national party should do more to help him and other Democrats challenging potentially vulnerable incumbents in New York. He said that such support would, if nothing else, give Democrats a strategic advantage in the larger battle for the House and force national Republicans to allocate resources that they otherwise plan to use to defend Republicans elsewhere in the country.
 The Congressional campaign committee ''needs to be contesting in more districts,'' Mr. Maffei said. 
 ''If you open up this front,'' he said, ''the Republicans will have to defend it.''
 Among the seats Democrats have hoped to capture is the Albany-area seat held by Mr. Sweeney, a four-term Republican who has come under criticism for his ties to lobbyists. Kirsten Gillibrand, the Democrat trying to unseat him, also argued that Democratic leaders in Washington ought to be aggressively expanding the map by stepping in with financial support for races like hers.
 The campaign committee should ''invest in a range of races in a range of districts so it can come up with a winning combination on Election Day,'' Ms. Gillibrand said, though she noted that national party leaders had lent support by, for example, helping her raise money.
 Representative Charles B. Rangel, a Harlem Democrat who is the dean of New York's Congressional delegation, said he understood the strategy of national Democratic leaders, given the limited amount of money the party has. But he expressed hope that more money would pour into New York as some races tightened.
 In the meantime, he said, the unusually high level of public unhappiness with the direction of the nation works in favor of Democratic challengers, as long as they have enough money to keep their campaigns running. ''It is just as important as money,'' he added.
 Some Democrats say nothing should be read into the fact that the House Democrats' campaign committee has not begun investing heavily in New York races, noting that it is still early in the fall campaign season and that national Democratic leaders have offered support by making campaign appearances with the challengers and helping them raise money.
 ''We continue to feel great about our opportunities in New York and even more so than we did a couple of months ago,'' said Bill Burton, a spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
 Independent analysts say that several factors make New York an especially difficult place for challengers. The state has 29 House seats, and 9 are held by Republicans, most in upstate areas where districts have been drawn to give Republicans a significant edge, countering increasing Democratic enrollment in the state.
 The situation in New York contrasts with the political dynamic elsewhere in the Northeast, a heavily Democratic region that is central to the party's plans for wresting control of the House. In Connecticut, for example, two Republican seats are being fiercely contested in races described as toss-ups. Republican incumbents are also facing stiff challenges in a handful of other states, including Pennsylvania, Indiana, Ohio and Florida. 
 Amy Walter, an analyst of House races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, said that independents would not play nearly as crucial a role in New York's Congressional races as they do in states like Connecticut and Pennsylvania because New York's districts tend to be heavily Republican.
 ''New York is a tougher place for Democrats than other parts of the Northeast,'' she said.
 The Gillibrand-Sweeney contest in the 20th Congressional District outside Albany underscores the challenges that Democrats face in New York.
 Ms. Gillibrand, a lawyer, has been a strong fund-raiser, taking in nearly as much money as Mr. Sweeney. And she and her advisers have run a tenacious campaign, generating headlines by exploiting some of Mr. Sweeney's actions, including a $2,000-a-person ''Skiing With Sweeney'' weekend getaway he organized that was attended by lobbyists at a resort in Park City, Utah. Mr. Sweeney denied doing anything improper. A spokeswoman said that a lobbyist involved with the trip represented two companies that employ more than 2,000 people in the congressman's district, and that Mr. Sweeney had discussed economic development efforts with him.
 But for all that, Ms. Gillibrand appears to have a long way to go in a district where there are nearly 100,000 more Republicans than Democrats. A recent poll released by the Siena Research Institute showed Mr. Sweeney with a 19-point lead.
 The Sweeney-Gillibrand race shows how Republicans have deliberately focused on local circumstances and personalities rather than on national issues, at a time when President Bush continues to show weakness in the polls around the country.
 For example, one advertisement that the Sweeney campaign began airing in June talks about the congressman's ''humble roots'' in Troy, a blue-collar city in the district, and describes his father ''as a union guy who worked three jobs.'' Fittingly, the advertisement is called ''The Kid From Troy,'' and it concludes that Mr. Sweeney's rise to Congress is nothing short of a ''New York story about America's promise.''
 Ms. Gillibrand, whose campaign released a poll showing Mr. Sweeney ahead by a smaller margin, sought to play down the significance of polls showing her far behind and predicted that the Democrats' campaign committee would begin funneling resources into her race as she closed in on Mr. Sweeney.
 ''In the abstract, this is not an obvious race,'' she said. ''But I have made the case from the beginning that this race is winnable because of the changing nature of our district, the voting record of John Sweeney and the strength of our campaign.''
 Republicans say another reason for the situation shaping up in New York is that their party's incumbents quickly turned their attention on potential challenges to head off serious problems later.
 For example, two Republican incumbents in New York, Mr. Walsh and Mr. Sweeney, began running advertisements in June, long before the traditional start of the campaign season, on Labor Day.
 Even Thomas M. Reynolds, a Buffalo-area congressman who is the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, weighed in with advertisements of his own, in late July, apparently to head off attacks from his Democratic challenger, Jack Davis, a multimillionaire businessman.
 ''The G.O.P. incumbents recognized the difficult environment early on and mobilized to beat back their challenges early,'' said Carl Forti, a spokesman for the National Republican Campaign Committee. Mr. Reynolds has been highlighting his ability to deliver federal aid to the economically struggling region.
 Democrats say there is plenty of time for challengers to close any gaps. To that end, one prominent liberal group, MoveOn.org Political Action, is running advertisements attacking Mr. Sweeney and John R. Kuhl Jr., a first-term Republican from the Corning area, as part of a national campaign to help Democratic challengers who are in so-called second-tier races: contests that have the potential to become competitive but are not considered competitive yet.
 The seats that the Democrats had identified as enticing targets include those held by Mr. Sweeney, Mr. Kuhl, Mr. Walsh, Sue Kelly of Westchester, and Mr. Boehlert. State Senator Raymond A. Meier, a Republican, and his Democratic opponent, Michael A. Arcuri, the Oneida County district attorney, are fighting for the seat that Mr. Boehlert is vacating. 
 The Democrats have also had their eye on Mr. Reynolds, who in 2004 won with 56 percent of the vote over Mr. Davis, who has vowed to spend $2 million on his campaign this year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kirsten Gillibrand campaigned with Hillary Rodham Clinton last month. She is trying to unseat Representative John E. Sweeney. (Photo by Nathaniel Brooks for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); FUNDRAISING (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); REDISTRICTING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); REFERENDUMS (66%) Finances; Reapportionment; United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%) Raymond Hernandez; George W (Pres) Bush; Sherwood (Rep) Boehlert; John E (Rep) Sweeney

GEOGRAPHIC: UTICA, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006



231 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Agriculture Discord Stymies World Trade Talks' Revival 

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Sept. 10 

 BODY:
Despite repeated declarations of their desire to resuscitate suspended global trade negotiations, representatives of leading industrial and developing nations meeting here this weekend were unable to agree on a resumption date.
 The talks were suspended in July, and much of the blame over an impasse in resuming them has been directed at the United States.
 ''What happened in July was a serious accident'' that could lead to litigation and ''protectionist surges'' that would damage global trade, Pascal Lamy, director general of the World Trade Organization, said at a news conference here on Sunday. ''We want the negotiations to resume,'' he continued, ''but I'm not sure we have all the elements in line'' to do so. 
 As was the case in July, the sticking point is agriculture. Developing nations have been demanding that in return for opening their markets to more manufactured goods and services, the United States and other rich industrialized countries eliminate farm subsidies and related measures that inhibit exports of agricultural products from poorer nations.
 The meeting here was sponsored by the Group of 20, or G-20, a coalition led by large fast-developing countries from Asia, Latin America and Africa. After meeting on Saturday to form their common position, the G-20 emissaries were joined Sunday by representatives of the United States, the European Union and Japan, as well as Mr. Lamy.
 Taking the offensive, the European Union said it was willing to make new concessions on agriculture and called on the Bush administration to do the same. ''The U.S. needs to make a fresh proposal during this time to reduce in real terms what it spends on trade-distorting subsidies and to discipline the programs it uses,'' said Peter Mandelson of Britain, the trade commissioner for the European Union.
 But the United States trade representative, Susan C. Schwab, said Washington had already agreed to ''very real and very dramatic cuts'' with a proposal that was ''not a take-it-or-leave-it offer.'' She rejected suggestions that the Bush administration was acting primarily to protect powerful farm groups in Republican or swing states. ''Being a champion of small family farms cuts across party lines,'' she said.
 The breakdown of talks in July stemmed from ''a collective effort and a collective failure,'' she continued. ''The Doha round is in serious trouble, there is no question,'' she said, referring to the global trade talks that began five years ago in Doha, the capital of Qatar. She said the United States was committed to a successful outcome ''if one can be found.''
 Several emissaries expressed hope that negotiations could resume after the American midterm elections in November, when the Bush administration will presumably be less subject to pressure from the farm lobby. They spoke of a ''window of opportunity'' that would extend until the middle of next year, when Congress would be drafting the next farm bill and President Bush's authority to negotiate trade pacts that Congress could not amend would expire.
 ''It seems to me so patently obvious that farmers have votes and write checks,'' Mr. Mandelson said at a news conference on Sunday afternoon. While the United States electoral calendar is not the only factor that will determine the date of any resumption of talks, said Celso Amorim, Brazil's foreign minister, ''the fact the elections are over can help'' break the logjam.
 Brazil itself has a presidential election in three weeks, and the meeting here, a joint initiative of Brazil and India, allowed Brazil's left-wing government, whose own foreign policy has been criticized by opposition parties, to play the role of champion of the developing world. President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva will meet in Brasilia this week with his counterparts from India and South Africa to fine-tune the G-20's position.
 ''We saw signs of flexibility and a preparedness to move,'' Mr. Amorim said, in summarizing the meetings between the camps. ''We didn't have any sign of blockages.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan C. Schwab, center, the trade representative for the United States, at economic talks in Rio de Janeiro. (Photo by Sergio Moraes/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (86%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); AGRICULTURE (68%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); LITIGATION (56%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%) Agriculture; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Customs (Tariff); International Trade and World Market; Third World and Developing Countries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%) European Union

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (58%); PASCAL LAMY (55%) Larry Rohter; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (74%) UNITED STATES (97%); QATAR (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2006



232 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; STRATEGIES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: When the Resume Is Not to Be Believed 

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
IN the last few years, the reputation of the resume has gotten a severe beating.
 In 2001, George O'Leary wanted the plum job in collegiate sports -- head coach of Notre Dame football -- so badly that he included on his resume a master's degree he did not have and letters for playing football that he never earned.
Ronald L. Zarrella, the chief executive of Bausch & Lomb, claimed to have had a master's in business administration from New York University. Shares in the company dropped 3 percent the day the company divulged Mr. Zarrella's resume-fudging, and the company last month said it would withhold his $1.1 million bonus.
 Earlier this year, David J. Edmondson, the chief executive of RadioShack, was fired after a newspaper investigation showed that his resume was padded with two degrees in psychology and theology, degrees he never got from a university that was not even accredited. 
 Notre Dame, Bausch & Lomb and RadioShack are huge organizations, and if they got fooled, at least at first, by resumes, how can small businesses, with fewer resources for checking, cope with what seems to be a cheating epidemic?
 Brad Fredericks, a co-founder of ResumeDoctor.com, a company in South Burlington, Vt., that advises clients on resume writing, had his employees pull about a thousand of them that had been uploaded to the company Web site and check them for easily identifiable facts like job titles, education and dates of employment.
 ''What we found was shocking,'' Mr. Fredericks said. ''We discovered that 42.7 percent of them had significant inaccuracies. Forty-two-point-seven percent. That was unbelievable to us.''
 Businesses are trying to be more vigilant. A 2005 survey by the Society for Human Resource Management said that almost half of human-resource specialists had significantly increased the time they spent checking resumes. The survey also found that 52 percent had started contracting a lot of the background checking. 
 Tom Medvec has run the Medvec Resources Group, a job placement firm in Valley City, Ohio, specializing in machine tool personnel, for the last 20 years. He used to be in the machine tool business himself, and said that now that even lathe operators have resumes, it is essential to have professionals like him check them.
 ''Certainly, when I started, machinists did not use recruiters, so they didn't have resumes,'' Mr. Medvec said. ''They filled out applications and waited to be called. Now with recruiting more prevalent in the skilled trades and all the job dot-coms, suddenly these guys need resumes. They don't know how to do them. Then they worry that they aren't good enough, so there is more and more lying going on. It is sad, but it is true.''
 One easy check, the experts say, is education. Universities and other instructional institutions are usually cooperative about sharing at least whether a person graduated or attended the school, and have quick access to databases. They also want to fight the growing tide of falsification.
 The Rutgers University Career Services office, for instance, did an audit last year and found that 20 percent of students submitting resumes had inflated their grade-point averages.
 Dr. Richard White, the director of the Rutgers office, said that this was partly an outgrowth of the Internet age. He said employers should be especially wary of resumes that come in online, since it seems applicants are more willing to fib that way.
 ''I just think people are more loose about information than in what we called the good old days,'' Dr. White said. ''It used to be that you had to submit a paper resume every time you applied for a job. I think that it must have been that that was a tangible act, something you had to repeat physically and mentally, so you felt yourself more accountable each time. Now it is pushing a button, sending a bunch of type on a computer screen off somewhere. It is like it just isn't real.''
 Dr. White said small businesses should check educational information. Grade-point averages may not be so important, but degrees and majors may be. A former employer may be worried about being sued if he gives a bad recommendation or, sometimes, any information about a former employee. The college, giving out proper information, only enhances its standing, Dr. White said.
 With little time or personnel to waste, small businesses might have to resort to effective, almost one-shot, strategies in checking resumes. One executive at a large machine shop, who did not want his name used to keep his methods safe, said he had resorted to the pop quiz.
 ''Before they walk into the shop, I give them a little questionnaire,'' he said. ''I ask things like what particular attachments have you used on this or that machine? I ask them technical terms. I ask them something little about a machine, something only someone who has worked on one will know. It saves a lot of time.''
 Matt FitzGibbons, the human-resource manager for Manth Brownell, a precision-turned parts company in Kirkville, N.Y., said he had been cautious lately looking at resumes, particularly at dates of employment. ''The economy here in upstate New York has been a bit rough in the last six years, so I see resumes, say, that are more vague in when they worked,'' he said. ''A '2004' could mean they really worked last in late 2003 and then started back in 2005, because some company closed, or whatever. It's hard to fool me, though, since I know which companies folded when. It's a shame, but some people feel they have to do that.''
 Resume fraud may be cyclical. Jude M. Werra, the president of Werra & Associates, an executive search firm in Brookfield, Wis., puts out what he calls the Liars Index, a survey of how many executive resumes have falsified education claims. He divides the number of people who have misrepresented their education by the total number of people whose education his company has checked. For the first half of 2006, Mr. Werra said, he found 16.07 percent of resumes had education misrepresentations. The lowest number came in 2003, during a hiring binge and soon after the Notre Dame event. 
 ''Small businesses can't check everything, especially vague claims like 'helped the company eliminate waste,' but they can check education easily,'' Mr. Werra said. ''Either they got the degrees or they didn't. Either they attended the schools or they didn't.'' 
 But don't stop checking completely. ''The baby bust is coming, and small companies may stop being so vigilant as the demand for good people goes up,'' Mr. Werra said. ''They may think when they have someone who looks good and sounds good, well, 'Let's go before he goes to someone else.' In the end, it will pay to step back, check at least the things you can. There are too many resumes out there with lies not to.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Chris Gash)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SCHOOL CHEATING (75%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (73%); ACCREDITATION (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); RELIGION (53%) Labor; Lying; Resumes

COMPANY: RADIOSHACK CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIETY FOR HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT (59%) Society for Human Resource Management

TICKER: RSH (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (56%)

PERSON: Robert Strauss

GEOGRAPHIC: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (55%) VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



233 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; STRATEGIES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Richer Retirement Accounts Aid Small Employers 

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
COMBING through this year's tax and pension laws, leading tax professionals have identified provisions and strategies that small businesses can use to their advantage.
 The Pension Protection Act of 2006 made permanent a number of enhancements to individual retirement accounts and defined-contribution retirement plans, including 401(k) and Simple plans, which are popular with small businesses. The enhancements, enacted in 2001, are scheduled to expire after 2010, leaving businesses reluctant to make changes that might be temporary. ''Since 2001, planning has been precarious at best,'' said Paul N. Gada, a lawyer and senior tax analyst at CCH, a publisher of books and software for tax professionals. ''Now that uncertainty has been removed, it should have a positive impact,'' encouraging businesses to set up and improve plans.
Among the permanent enhancements cited by CCH are: 
 Higher dollar limits for contributions. For I.R.A.'s they will be $4,000 this year, $5,000 in 2008 and inflation-adjusted in future years. For 401(k)'s they will be $15,000 this year, and for Simple plans, $10,000, with both adjusted for inflation thereafter.
 Additional contributions, known as catch-up contributions, for workers age 50 and older. They are $1,000 for I.R.A.'s with no future inflation adjustment; $2,500 for Simple plans; and $5,000 for 401(k)'s in 2006, with both inflation-adjusted in future years.
 Besides regular 401(k) plans, employers may sponsor Roth 401(k) plans, under which after-tax money goes into the plans and retirement distributions are tax free.
 Employers with no more than 100 employees that offer new plans can take a tax credit up to $500 a year for each of the first three years for pension plan start-up costs. Mark Luscombe, a lawyer and accountant who is the principal tax analyst at CCH, said the new pension law also made important changes in the rules governing 401(k) plans. 
 A new ''opt out'' rule is the reverse of present practice. Employees participating in employer-sponsored 401(k) plans have always had to sign up and tell their employers what percentage of their salaries to withhold. Now employers sponsoring 401(k) plans are to sign up employees automatically. Employees who do not wish to participate must then opt out.
 Another change allows providers of retirement plans to offer personalized investment advice to account holders. The Bush administration contended that workers needed help in choosing investments.
 A third change, for small employers, would simplify reporting requirements by allowing them to combine reports of defined benefit and 401(k)'s in one document.
 The changes, Mr. Luscombe said, are intended to encourage more employers to offer plans and more employees to join them.
 Going beyond its name, the pension law also extended the rules that authorize popular Section 529 college savings programs sponsored by states. Many states allow tax breaks for money that residents put into such plans, and distributions, when used for qualified college expenses, are tax free.
 Bill Fleming, a managing director of PricewaterhouseCoopers in Hartford, said the plans are not just for children. Many businesspeople want to take business-related courses, and most 529 plans allow adults to name themselves as beneficiary when setting up the plan. A few state plans, however, have age-related requirements, he said, so check the plan before investing. 
 The money may be used to pay for part-time or full-time course work, and even for learning by Internet at the college or graduate level, if the courses are offered by institutions that qualify for federal financial aid.
 The Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act, which President Bush signed on May 17, could give an indirect impetus to a favorite income-shifting strategy of business owners, namely employing their children, said Sidney Kess, a New York tax lawyer and accountant.
 The reason is that the law raised the age limit on what is known as the kiddie tax to 18 from 14. Under the kiddie tax any unearned income, like dividends and interest of more than $1,700 in a dependent child's name, is taxed at the parents' tax rate. But any income a child earns is taxed at the child's rate. A self-employed person can hire her child and the child can invest her earnings for college.
 The work must be real work for a realistic wage, Mr. Kess said. Most high school students are computer literate and can do office work, he said, and most businesspeople want their children to learn their business, so the advantages go beyond taxes.
 Mr. Kess gave this example: ''Let's say you're in the 28 percent bracket. You hire your child and pay $9,150. You deduct the wages on Schedule C, saving $2,562 in income tax and $1,400 in self-employment tax, for a total tax savings of $3,962. The child takes the standard deduction of $5,150, so taxable income is $4,000, and the tax on that is $403, meaning the family tax savings is $3,559. Or the child can contribute $4,000 to a deductible I.R.A. and pay no tax.''
 Unlike incorporated businesses, people with unincorporated businesses do not have to withhold Social Security and Medicare taxes when they hire their minor children. 
 Despite all the changes, one important issue for small business remains uncertain -- estate taxes. ''Something will be done before 2010,'' Mr. Gada said, but right now business owners do not know what it will be, and that makes planning difficult.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lars Leetaru)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); US 401K PLANS (91%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (75%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); BOOK PUBLISHING (55%) Small Business; Pensions and Retirement Plans

PERSON: Jan M Rosen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



234 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; FASHION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Mystery Out of Making Decisions

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
ARE you losing sleep over the constant decision-making involved in running your business? How would you like to unwind with a good mystery -- and learn business tactics at the same time? 
 In his book, ''Framed!: Solve an Intriguing Mystery and Master How to Make Smart Choices,'' Hari Singh, chairman of the economics department at the Seidman College of Business at Grand Valley State University in Grand Rapids, Mich., uses the classic mystery novel as a model. But he offers precepts more commonly found in a business seminar.
 Dr. Singh, who teaches courses in decision-making to M.B.A. students, sets his novel at a business school in Chicago. At the beginning, a student is found dead in her room. The official view is that she committed suicide. Two other students, one of whom is also a police detective, have their doubts and set out to determine whether the girl was murdered and, if so, who killed her. 
 Dr. Singh, a fan of mystery novels, turned to fiction to explain his subject because students often find the systematic, analytical decision-making strategies taught in business school difficult to understand. The book also includes a summary of important concepts, a checklist for common pitfalls, discussion questions and suggested readings.
 One reason that making decisions can be hard is that the person in charge is part of the picture -- or in the jargon used by academics ''inside the frame.''
 Dr. Singh said he had conducted a seminar for 15 Grand Valley administrators who read the book. He broke them into groups and asked them to apply the principles to solve work problems. ''After reading the book, they can do it by themselves,'' he said. ''Group discussion among executives, within the context of their own problems and search for solutions, is a key learning tool.'' 
 He described three models for decision-making: 

BALANCE SHEET -- Say a store owner is considering moving to a new shopping mall because his downtown location is slowly losing business. In this method, the owner lists two options. Under each entry, she lists favorable factors. Each factor is given a value of 1 to 10. Then the total for each is added up.

WEIGHING ATTRIBUTES AND RANKING SCORES -- Suppose the store owner had three or more options that would call for a more complex model. Say she was also considering moving to a stand-alone suburban location or selling his business. In this method, she lists the options horizontally. Under each option she lists the attributes vertically and gives each a numerical significance rating. She gives the options a numerical score for every attribute. The score is multiplied by the significance rating. Results for each option are totaled at the bottom.

POSSIBLE STRATEGIES -- Suppose the store owner has made a tentative decision to move her store to the mall. With this method, she identifies her objective (increase the volume of business); the main players (customers, work force, landlord); driving forces (what is the growth of the area around the mall?); what influence she can have (community involvement, advertising); and projects likely outcomes (is it going to work?). As information becomes available, strategies need to be reviewed.
 Dr. Singh offered these tips to decision-makers:

Try to make a more flexible frame -- when you have an important decision and have the benefit of time, step back and gain perspective. Most business decisions are made at the spur of moment.

Look for the right questions. Normally people try to look for answers quickly, but it is important to look for the right questions. If you have the right questions, the solutions will eventually come.

Get a contrary viewpoint; seek external opinions; and brainstorm -- look at all angles and options.

Look for new information. When deciding, he said, ''move from the simple to the complex as the situation warrants.'' But he does not suggest basing a decision solely on a mathematic model. Personal factors are also important. Incorporate feedback from other people, he added, and be conscious of how much risk you are willing to take.


GRAPHIC: Photo: WHODUNIT -- Hari Singh, an economics professor in Michigan, has written a mystery that teaches business strategies. (Photo by Adam Bird for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); LITERATURE (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (77%); MURDER (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); RETAILERS (66%); SUICIDE (54%); SUBURBS (50%) Small Business; Books and Literature

PERSON: Hari Singh; Jan M Rosen

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



235 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Health&Fitness; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Speed of the Spread of Flu Is Linked to Airline Travel

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS BAKALAR

 BODY:
Airline travel has a significant effect on the spread of influenza, a new study reports, raising the question of whether flight restrictions may be helpful in controlling a pandemic.
 Although computer simulations have already suggested a link, this study, published online yesterday in PLoS Medicine, offers the first observations of the phenomenon.
The researchers compared the timing and number of influenza deaths in 122 American cities with the volume of airline travel during the same period for each of nine flu seasons, 1996 to 2005. They found that changes in the rate of spread and the timing of peak mortality each year correlated with yearly fluctuations in monthly airline passenger volume. 
 Domestic airline travel in November was the best predictor of the speed of influenza spread, the researchers found, although influenza infections and deaths usually peak in late February.
 They suggest that travel during the Thanksgiving holiday may be the central event in determining the rapidity of transmission. The fewer domestic airline passengers there are, researchers found, the slower the flu moves across the country.
 This effect was particularly pronounced after the Sept. 11 attacks, when a temporary flight ban was instituted in the United States and airline travel volume was lower than in any other season from 1996 to 2005. 
 In most years, the peak date for influenza mortality in the United States occurs within two days of Feb. 17. But in 2002, the peak date was almost two weeks later, on March 2.
 In 2003, 2004 and 2005, the peaks gradually returned to the normal range, Feb. 29, 19 and 17, respectively. 
 International airline travel similarly alters influenza timing and peak mortality. The scientists found an inverse correlation between the timing of the influenza season each year and the number of international travelers between September and November.
 This was particularly evident in the late-arriving flu season of 2001-2, when international flight volume fell to 3.5 million passengers, from 4.9 million the previous year. The fewer international travelers there are from November to January, the later influenza arrives in the United States.
 The authors acknowledge certain limitations of their findings. The data they used for establishing cause of death depend on voluntary reports, which are not always reliable.
 In addition, deaths from influenza are concentrated in an older population, and there may be considerable variations in peak infection rates depending on age. 
 Average temperature did not predict the spread of the flu, nor was there any detectable difference caused by the strain of flu that dominated in each year.
 The researchers found no influence of airline travel on the severity of the flu, or the number of people who die during each year's flu season. But restrictions on air travel could delay the arrival of a flu and ensure that there is enough time to institute preventive measures. 
 ''Restricting travel would provide critical lead time to stockpile antivirals, develop vaccines, decide on school closures and lessen person-to-person contact,'' said Dr. Kenneth D. Mandl, the study's senior author.
 ''Flight restrictions might give us a chance to reduce downstream illness and deaths in a flu pandemic,'' said Dr. Mandl, an assistant professor of pediatrics at Harvard and an attending physician at Children's Hospital Boston. ''If we can provide a month of lead time, that gives us an advantage.''
 Dr. John S. Brownstein, the paper's lead author and an instructor in pediatrics at Harvard, added that restricting air travel as a pandemic control measure would have major economic and social impact.
 ''It is for policy makers to decide, and we hope to have provided them with the evidence they need to gauge the possible benefit of that decision,'' Dr. Brownstein said. ''Clearly an air traffic ban would be one of multiple measures that could help mitigate the impact of a flu pandemic.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (97%); AIRLINES (92%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (79%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); MODELING & SIMULATION (77%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (77%); THANKSGIVING (75%); VACCINES (73%); WRITERS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (50%) Influenza; Airlines and Airplanes; Travel Restrictions; Research; Thanksgiving Day; Research

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%) Harvard University; Plos Medicine (Journal) 

PERSON: Nicholas Bakalar; John S (Dr) Brownstein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



236 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Production to Remain Unchanged

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: VIENNA, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
OPEC said on Monday that it would keep its current production levels unchanged for the time being but hinted that it was ready to cut production, as some delegates voiced concerns that high oil inventories and slowing demand might ignite a plunge in prices. 
 OPEC's decision, which was widely expected, means that oil supplies will remain ample for the time being, despite losses from BP operations in Alaska, chronic shortages in Iraq and attacks on Nigeria's oil exporting terminals. Oil inventories in the United States have been building and are now above their five-year average. 
But OPEC said firmly that it would monitor the market more carefully in coming months for signs of further price declines. Some ministers are worried that a new dynamic is taking hold, ending a rally that has led to a tripling of oil prices in five years.
 The group's final statement said that OPEC would cut production if prices fell more. It did not indicate a price level at which the cut would be made.
 OPEC said it ''would take the necessary steps to ensure that supply and demand remained in balance, with prices at reasonable levels, supplying to the market the needed volumes,'' according to its final statement. Moreover, OPEC ''stressed its determination to ensure that crude oil prices remain at acceptable levels and member countries recorded their preparedness to respond rapidly to any development which might jeopardize their interests.''
 Indeed, OPEC is now shifting its attention to a problem it had managed to avoid for much of the last year -- how much should oil prices be allowed to drop before the oil-producing group steps in?
 Some oil ministers have suggested that OPEC may need to cut its output before the end of the year. Many ministers fear being caught short by a sudden price drop that they would fail to counterbalance.
 Agreeing on a floor price is not going to be an easy matter, analysts said. Since opening its spigots last year to meet surging oil demand and stabilize prices, OPEC ministers have become increasingly comfortable with oil prices that have been significantly higher than in the past. 
 Now they must grapple with the possibility that the three-year price run may be coming to an end, Deciding what would be a ''reasonable'' new floor to defend will be tricky. 
 ''We will know it when we see it, that's what we mean when we say reasonable prices,'' Edmund Daukoru, Nigeria's oil minister and the OPEC president this year, said at a news conference after the meeting ended. 
 He repeatedly declined to say at what price level OPEC would be compelled to act. 
 ''It's a feel,'' he said at one point. ''It's a feel thing. I cannot put a number.''
 While OPEC producers have been pumping at their highest level since 1979, partly to help drive prices down, geopolitical tensions in the Middle East and the threat of another severe hurricane season in the Gulf of Mexico have kept oil markets on edge.
 But the hurricane season has so far proved benign, the United Nations has not moved to sanction Iran over its nuclear enrichment program, and the war in the Middle East this summer has ended without escalating into a wider regional conflict. These factors helped push prices down in recent weeks. In addition, the American economy seems to be softening. 
 Light, sweet crude oil for October delivery closed at $65.61 a barrel, after falling more than $1 earlier in the day on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil has dropped by more than $11 a barrel in the last month after hitting a new high of $77.03 at the beginning of hostilities between Israel and Lebanon in July. 
 Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, who account for about 40 percent of global oil exports, are next scheduled to meet in mid-December in Nigeria. 
 Some OPEC delegates said they might need to meet earlier if prices kept falling. A production cut may be on the table at the next meeting, according to two oil ministers, Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah from Qatar and Rafael Ramirez from Venezuela. Kazem Vaziri Hamaneh, Iran's oil minister, said oil prices should not be allowed to fall below $60 a barrel.
 Chakib Khelil, Algeria's oil minister, said, ''There is no need to cut now but if there is a deterioration in the global economy and prices fall quickly, then we will need a meeting before December.''
 Yasser Elguindi, a senior managing director at Medley Global Advisers, an advisory firm for hedge funds, said, ''Prices are still high and OPEC wants them to come down. But it is good for them to start looking at their supplies.'' 
 OPEC's output quota will remain at 28 million barrels a day for the time being. Including Iraq, which is not bound by the quota system, the daily production of the 11-member cartel is about 30 million barrels. 
 Not everyone is concerned by the drop in prices -- at least so far.
 ''Don't take this blip as significant,'' Ali al-Naimi, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, told reporters in Vienna. ''This is a cyclical business. It's not the first time prices go up or prices go down.''
 ''Market fundamentals are very sound,'' Mr. Naimi said. ''We are beginning to see a slight decrease in economic growth, very slight.'' But, he added, ''It is nothing alarming.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: OPEC members, meeting yesterday in Vienna, worried about slowing demand and falling prices for oil. (Photo by Dieter Nagl/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (59%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Production; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Shortages; International Trade and World Market; Inventories (Economic Indicator)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Bp Plc; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

PERSON: Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%) ALASKA, USA (94%) NIGERIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); AUSTRIA (92%); NIGER (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%); ARCTIC (57%) Alaska; Iraq; Nigeria; Niger Delta (Nigeria); Prudhoe Bay (Alaska); Arctic National Wildlife Refuge 

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



237 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: Court Panel Denies Blogger's Appeal

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
In a case closely watched by First Amendment advocates, a federal court panel has rejected an appeal by a freelance journalist and blogger who has refused to appear before a grand jury or turn over video he shot of a violent protest last summer. 
 The decision, filed Friday by a three-member panel of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, reaffirmed a contempt charge against the journalist, Josh Wolf, who was sent to prison on Aug. 1 by a lower court for refusing to cooperate with an investigation into an anti-capitalism protest here in July 2005.
At the protest, timed to coincide with the Group of Eight Summit of world economic leaders in Scotland, a police officer was injured and an explosive device, a smoke bomb or a firework, was put under a police car. 
 Mr. Wolf sold some of his film to local television stations and posted parts on his Web site, www.joshwolf.net. Earlier this year, the government subpoenaed Mr. Wolf to testify and to turn over the remaining video, which prosecutors wanted to use to gather evidence for potential arson charges. Mr. Wolf has refused, and in an interview on Monday, he remained defiant. ''Nothing the government can do,'' he said, ''will coerce me into submitting to their demands. I intend to appeal this through every measure possible.'' 
 Mr. Wolf remained free on Monday, and it was not clear if the decision would result in his returning to jail immediately. His lawyer, Jose Luis Fuentes, said he would ask for a rehearing before the entire court. 
 Luke Macaulay, a spokesman for the United States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of California, said his office was awaiting an order from the Ninth Circuit ''clarifying Mr. Wolf's custodial status.''
 Mr. Wolf, who has continued to post online updates about his case, said he was not fazed by the prospect of more prison time. 
 ''My cellmates were totally chill and had my back,'' he said of his recent incarceration. ''The fact I only got an hour of fresh air a day was frustrating, but you deal.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); GRAND JURY (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WRITERS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRISONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); EVIDENCE (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); RIOTS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRENDS (70%); ARSON (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (53%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Demonstrations and Riots; Group of Eight; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Blogs and Blogging (Internet); News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (83%)

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley; Josh Wolf

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (76%) California; San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



238 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Ithaca Journal; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: 40 Years Later, Folk Music Keeps Its Nook on Campus

BYLINE: By MICHELLE YORK

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
On a recent Sunday evening, the veteran folk musician Rod MacDonald was singing, ''Terror,'' a scathing commentary about the Bush administration's post-9/11 policies. ''You want the power to say who lives and dies,'' he crooned. ''The power to say what's true and what's lies.''
 The audience, about 50 people who had ducked out of a drizzling rain to gather in a small cafe tucked inside a stone building on the Cornell University campus, spontaneously joined in on the refrain: ''Terror is a very magic word,'' they chanted. 
 A surprised Mr. MacDonald looked up from his guitar at the song's conclusion. ''A singalong,'' he said. ''Imagine that.'' 
 It was the promise of such a warm reception that made Mr. MacDonald want to perform here, as part of what some consider North America's longest-running live folk concert on radio. 
 ''It's a very special thing,'' Mr. MacDonald said of the weekly show on WVBR-FM (93.5). ''It has a high caliber of performers, and the audience is very aware. 
 ''If somebody came here regularly,'' he added, ''they would have a deep understanding of folk music in the northeast United States.''
 The radio program, started by Philip D. Shapiro, is in its 40th year. Between sets, Mr. Shapiro plays his favorite folk records, some of which are still on vinyl, for an audience typically old enough to remember when 45's were as common as iPods are now.
 The show, named ''Bound for Glory'' after Woody Guthrie's autobiography, attracts acclaimed folk musicians, even though it does not pay them to perform. (Volunteers put up the musicians during their stays so they do not have to pay for hotels.)
 In fact, folk musicians often call Mr. Shapiro asking for a slot, instead of the other way around. Of this season's first 10 musical guests, he said, he only had to seek out 3. The rest, including Mr. MacDonald, who began his career in Greenwich Village about 32 years ago, asked to come. 
 ''Nobody gets paid to work on the show either,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''It's extremely a labor of love.''
 Mr. Shapiro, 60, has been both a radio and folk music fan since his boyhood days in East Brunswick, N.J. While studying at Brandeis University near Boston in the mid-1960's, he was the host of a folk music show at the college station, in between economics classes.
 In 1967, shortly after arriving at Cornell to pursue graduate studies, Mr. Shapiro made a beeline for the station here. ''The first night, I received six calls,'' he said. ''And that was six more calls than I'd received as an undergrad.''
 When he was not in class or working on the show, he sold advertising for the station. Though he received his master's degree and completed his doctorate work, minus the dissertation, Mr. Shapiro stayed right where he was, at WVBR, selling ads during the weekdays and being host of his show on Sunday evenings. ''My parents were not happy about it,'' he said, ''just like the parents of a lot of folk musicians.''
 Though the show is too small for more mainstream performers like the band Peter, Paul and Mary, or Alison Krauss, the bluegrass artist, it has featured artists like U. Utah Phillips, Mike Seeger, Bill Staines and Rosalie Sorrels in its 1,200-plus concerts.
 Joe Hickerson, a longtime folk musician who was a past director of Archive of Folk Culture at the Library of Congress, said he agreed to perform on the show because many of his friends and colleagues have already done so. ''The reports have been good,'' he said. ''It's something I've always wanted to do.''
 Over the decades, the show has left a small footprint on the campus while more popular forms of music -- rock 'n' roll, disco and rap, to name some -- have dominated the local music scene. Only a handful of college students attend the performances despite Mr. Shapiro's constant promotion. ''It's a somewhat gray crowd,'' he said.
 Still, Mr. Shapiro believes the tension in the country today is fueling a renewed interest in folk music among the youth. ''It's better than it was,'' he said. ''Ten years ago there was almost no interest among young people. I'm hoping we've gone past the part where folk music is totally uncool.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Philip D. Shapiro, left, host of the radio program ''Bound for Glory,'' recording an episode with Neil Rotach, a radio technician.
 Rod MacDonald, a folk musician, performed recently for a radio program. A crowd of 50 watched the show at a cafe at Cornell University. (Photographs by Kevin Rivoli for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%) Radio; Folk Music; Records and Achievements

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%) Cornell University; WVBR-FM (Ithaca, NY)

PERSON: Michelle York; Philip D Shapiro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); NORTHEAST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



239 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Grim Outlook Seen in West Iraq Without More Troops and Aid 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
The political and security situation in western Iraq is grim and will continue to deteriorate unless the region receives a major infusion of aid and a division is sent to reinforce the American troops operating there, according to the senior Marine intelligence officer in Iraq.
 The assessment, prepared last month by Col. Peter Devlin at the Marine headquarters in Anbar Province, has been sent to senior military officials in Iraq and at the Pentagon. 
While the American military is focused on trying to secure Baghdad and prevent the sectarian strife there from escalating into a civil war, the assessment points to the difficulties in Anbar, a vast Sunni-dominated area of western Iraq where the insurgency is particularly strong. The province includes such restive towns as Ramadi, Haditha and Hit.
 Marine commanders have been mounting a campaign to secure the province in the face of a virulent insurgency. But they have had to cope with seriously short-handed Iraqi Army units and a Shiite-dominated government in Baghdad that has tended to view the area as a low priority for government spending and programs.
 Elements of the assessment were reported Monday in The Washington Post. Military officials familiar with the document disclosed additional material and provided several quotations from the assessment.
 One factor that has hampered the American counterinsurgency effort has been the limited number of American troops. As a general rule, a substantial number of troops are required in a counterinsurgency campaign to protect the population from attacks and intimidation by insurgent groups.
 There are about 30,000 marines, soldiers, airmen and sailors in Anbar, a region that borders Syria, Jordan and Saudi Arabia and is roughly the size of Louisiana. 
 American forces can generally maneuver where they want and are fighting to regain control of Ramadi, the provincial capital, neighborhood by neighborhood. But there are areas of the province where the Americans have not established a persistent presence, the assessment says.
 Without the deployment of an additional division, ''there is nothing MNF-W can do to influence the motivation of the Sunni to wage an insurgency,'' the report states, according to a military officer familiar with it. MNF-W stands for Multinational Force-West, the formal name of the Marine command. A division numbers about 16,000 troops. The limited number of troops, however, is just one problem in countering the insurgency there, the report says. The assessment describes Anbar as a region marked by violence and criminality. Except for a few relatively bright spots, like the towns of Falluja and Qaim, the region generally lacks functional governments and a respect for the rule of law.
 Anbar does not have valuable resources like oil. Nor does its Sunni population appear to represent an important constituency for the Shiite-dominated government in Baghdad. Although there is economic growth in relatively secure areas, much of it can be attributed to the American-supported reconstruction effort. The level of economic activity in the province is just a fraction of what it was before 2003, the assessment says.
 Feeling marginalized in the new Iraq, the Sunnis in Anbar have generally lost faith in the new Shiite-dominated government in Baghdad. The Sunnis' ''greatest fears have been realized,'' the report says.
 The Sunnis' suspicion of the government makes the task of forging a political reconciliation more difficult, and has also complicated one policy option that some critics of Bush administration's strategy have proposed as an alternative means of stabilizing Iraq: dividing the country into Shiite, Kurdish and Sunni enclaves. Such a plan would not be welcomed by Sunnis, since they would not trust the central government to share proceeds from oil sales, the assessment says.
 As the situation has deteriorated, insurgent attacks have increased. The report describes Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia as an ''integral part of the social fabric'' of Anbar. The organization, which is predominantly made up of fighters who are native Iraqis, is flush with cash, much of it earned from black market or criminal activity.
 As an intelligence assessment, the report is intended to analyze trends, not make policy recommendations. A spokesman for the Marine command declined to comment on the assessment. Many of the points in the analysis were also presented to Gen. Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, when he met with senior Marine officers at Camp Falluja in August.
 Several elements of the intelligence assessment are consistent with the views of some Marine officers who were interviewed in the field in July. Discussing force levels, Lt. Col. Ronald Gridley, the executive officer with Regimental Combat Team 7, a Marine unit that is charged with securing a large swath of the province, said then that his regiment had recommended that additional troops be allocated to its section of Anbar. Even a battalion or two, he said, would help a great deal.
 ''What we recommend and what we get is going to be two different things,'' Colonel Gridley said. ''In our perfect world, we could use some more infantrymen to be able to patrol the streets and partner with the Iraqi Army.''
 Since the intelligence assessment was prepared in August, however, no reinforcements have been sent. To the contrary, the strain on the American troops in Anbar has increased. An American Stryker unit, which was under the overall Marine command, has been sent from Rawa to Baghdad to help with the operation there. Also, military police who had been earmarked for training the Iraq police in Anbar have also been sent to Baghdad. The Marines have sought to make up the shortfall by using existing troops.
 The Iraqi Army has deployed two divisions in the region with a combined authorized strength of some 19,000. But the Iraqi military is under strength. The two Iraqi divisions in Anbar together are some 5,000 troops short of that level, while hundreds more are absent without leave. As a result of these developments and the practice of giving monthly leaves, the day-to-day strength of the two divisions is 50 percent for one division and 35 percent for the other.
 A separate report, titled ''Stabilizing Iraq,'' issued Monday by the Government Accountability Office, says that, although the solution to securing the country is not entirely military, there is an important relationship between security conditions and efforts to strengthen the economy.
 The G.A.O. report noted that attacks against the American-led forces and Iraqi security forces reached an ''all-time high during July 2006.''
 ''Despite coalition efforts and the efforts of the newly formed Iraqi government, insurgents continue to demonstrate the ability to recruit new fighters, supply themselves, and attack coalition and Iraqi security forces,'' the G.A.O report added. ''The deteriorating conditions threaten the progress of U.S. and international efforts to assist Iraq in the political and economic areas.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A herd of sheep was led past Iraqi soldiers in Abu Hazziem in Anbar Province in July. The Sunni-dominated province is a stronghold of insurgents. (Photo by Max Becherer/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); ARMIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); AL-QAEDA (69%); TERRORISM (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: Peter (Gen) Pace; Peter (Col) Devlin; Michael R Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SYRIA (79%) Iraq; Anbar Province (Iraq); Ramadi (Iraq); Haditha (Iraq); Hit (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



240 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Mayor Vetoes Big-Store Minimum Wage

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
In his 17 years at this city's helm, Mayor Richard M. Daley had never vetoed a decision of the City Council, a sign, it seems, that he gets his way most of the time. 
 But on Monday, Mr. Daley vetoed the Council's plan to make Chicago the first city in the nation to single out ''big box'' retailers like Wal-Mart and Home Depot for wage minimums for their workers.
''I understand and share a desire to ensure that everyone who works in the city of Chicago earns a decent wage,'' Mr. Daley wrote of the rules, which would have required large stores to pay at least $10 an hour by 2010, and at least $3 an hour in benefits. 
 ''But I do not believe that this ordinance, well intentioned as it may be, would achieve that end,'' he continued. ''Rather, I believe it would drive jobs and businesses from our city, penalizing neighborhoods that need additional economic activity the most.''
 The veto, praised by business leaders but condemned by labor groups and the aldermen who had pressed for the ordinance, set up the mayor for a rare political fight: Mr. Daley, who is up for re-election next year, may face an effort to override his veto at City Hall on Wednesday.
 Despite the mayor's disapproval, the aldermen voted 35 to 14 in favor of the wage rules in July. But some of that support has grown shaky in the face of recent lobbying by the mayor's office. One person was absent for the original vote. 
 An override would require 34 of the 50 aldermen, and at least one Council member who had supported the ordinance told The Chicago Tribune that she now intended to vote against it. Another alderman who supported the measure is expected to be absent. 
 The ordinance, which was to apply to stores with at least 90,000 square feet and which are part of companies grossing more than $1 billion a year, set off a firestorm after its passage. 
 Supporters called it a groundbreaking step nationally in forcing such businesses to improve treatment of their workers and pay them more than either the federal minimum wage ($5.15 an hour) or the state's ($6.50) require. 
 Opponents, including some City Council members from the poorest wards, said they feared the move would send stores and jobs into the suburbs, even as some large stores announced that they were delaying plans to sign new leases in Chicago. 
 On Monday, Wal-Mart praised Mr. Daley's decision. ''His action encourages desperately needed business investment and development in the city, with job opportunities and savings for those who need it most,'' Michael Lewis, a Wal-Mart official, said in a release. 
 In the coming weeks, Wal-Mart expects to open its first store in Chicago, on the city's West Side. Some 11,000 people applied for the 400 jobs there, said David Tovar, a Wal-Mart spokesman. The range of expected wages there was unavailable, Mr. Tovar said, but he said the average wage for full-time hourly associates in Illinois was $10.41 an hour.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (92%); CITIES (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ORDINANCES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); SUBURBS (67%) Retail Stores and Trade; Labor; Law and Legislation; Minimum Wage; Vetoes (US); Wages and Salaries; Retail Stores and Trade

ORGANIZATION: Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Home Depot Inc

PERSON: Monica Davey; Richard M (Mayor) Daley

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Chicago (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



241 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: On a Solemn Day, an Outpouring of Reflection 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 On this fifth anniversary of 9/11, I wanted to let the city of New York as well as everybody else affected know that you are in our thoughts and prayers. All across this great land we have not forgotten, nor will we ever forget. 
 To this day the memories still bring tears to my eyes and great pain to my heart knowing that we will never be the same again. I only hope that from all of this pain we have become a stronger country and that we can still reach out a helping hand to one another.
Continue to be strong as the rest of us across this country know all New Yorkers to be, and always remember: We are behind you all of the way -- we will never forget!

Jodi Wilken
Sartell, Minn., Sept. 11, 2006

To the Editor: 
 As I turned on my radio this morning and listened to sorrowful music commemorating the fifth anniversary of the loss of life on 9/11, I was struck by a two-part sadness.
 One part of me mourned the unspeakable tragedies to the victims and their families. But the other part of me mourned the tragic lost opportunities for our country at the hands of the Bush administration and a feckless Congress. 
 That the endless and wasteful war in Iraq is America's showpiece response to Sept. 11 is the deepest tragedy of all.

William Stableford
Madison, Conn., Sept. 11, 2006

To the Editor:
 On the fifth anniversary of the deadly attacks on New York and the Pentagon and the attack that was heroically thwarted over Pennsylvania, my heartfelt sympathy goes out to the families who lost loved ones. 
 Where is Osama bin Laden? Why has he not been brought to justice by now?
 In World War II, the time between the attack on Pearl Harbor and the end of the war with Japan was roughly three and a half years. All of our resources were focused on defeating the real enemies. 
 Why is that not happening now? 
 Why has the main objective in the ''war on terror'' been so egregiously deflected into this bogus imbroglio in Iraq, a country that had nothing to do with 9/11? 
 I am an American and I cherish our freedoms. I don't think that I'm any less of an American to believe that our military efforts are being squandered in Iraq while the real enemy and mass murderer is still free and taunting us. 
 On the fifth anniversary of 9/11, it is a disgrace that Osama bin Laden has not yet been brought to justice. 

John Domeracki
Shelton, Conn., Sept. 10, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''The Hole in the City's Heart'' (special section, Sept. 11):
 I am outraged that five years have passed and there is still no memorial at ground zero. Squabbling among political and business leaders must end. 
 The memorial is supposed to be for the victims and their families. Therefore, it is only right that the victims' families be involved with the planning, building and dedication of the memorial; not the politicians or business leaders. 
 Five years is long enough. The open wound represented by the gaping hole at ground zero must be closed so that the survivors and families can heal.

Ellen Stark
Bridgewater, N.J., Sept. 11, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''Whatever Happened to the America of 9/12?,'' by Frank Rich (column, Sept. 10):
 In the days and weeks after 9/11, Americans, as one people, embraced our country. We flew flags. We displayed them on the windows of our cars and homes. The airwaves were filled with patriotic songs. A sympathetic world showered its love on us. This was real political capital. 
 President Bush embraced a military solution rather than a law-enforcement solution. He bullied the United Nations. He issued threats. He alienated allies. His administration rejected ''old Europe.'' Congress feasted on ''freedom fries.''
 If a unified world had relied on law enforcement and intelligence rather than on bombs, Islamic terrorists may have become no more than an extreme fringe, without money, power or influence. Instead, we are on the verge of world war. 
 America is isolated. We have fewer friends in the world. As for political capital, we are penniless. 
 The real tragedy of 9/11 is one of misguided leadership and missed opportunity.

Bill Kalter
Port St. Lucie, Fla., Sept. 10, 2006

To the Editor:
 It is offensive for the Bush administration to make political theater of the tragedy of Sept. 11 (Frank Rich column, Sept. 10). We need to remember that our government failed us on 9/11. 
 Magnificent people perished through government lapses.
 The greatest tribute to those who died and those who survived would be for this administration to demonstrate ethical, moral and sane actions to make our world safer. 
 No political theater can remove the taint of failed policies, wasted resources, and lost and damaged lives from our memories. 

Katherine A. Trimarco
Glen Ridge, N.J., Sept. 10, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''9/11/06'' (editorial, Sept. 11): 
 You write, ''It would be miraculous if the best of our leaders expressed grief and responsibility for the bad path down which we've gone, and promised to work together to turn us in a better direction.''
 A turn in a better direction would also be served and it would be equally miraculous if The New York Times were to acknowledge that however much it may disagree with President Bush's policies, those policies have been motivated by a single-minded determination to protect us from further attack. 
 You might even give a nod to the fact that they appear to have been successful.

Howard F. Jaeckel
New York, Sept. 11, 2006

To the Editor:
 In many ways, it feels as if 9/11 happened yesterday. 
 To me, the larger question isn't what we have lost as much as what we haven't gained since 2001. 
 As a fiftysomething father of three, I wonder what kind of world my children will inherit when I'm gone. One of the biggest wake-up calls from that tragic day is knowing how poorly we communicate with the Muslim world. 
 Unless and until that fundamental issue gets fixed, don't expect much to change between now and the 10th anniversary of the attacks on America.

Denny Freidenrich
Laguna Beach, Calif., Sept. 11, 2006

To the Editor:
 Reflecting on the compounded tragedies of the last five years, you note that the catastrophic invasion of Iraq ''never would have occurred if every voter's sons and daughters were eligible for the draft'' (editorial, Sept. 11). 
 Wouldn't it be the beginning of wisdom, and an essential step toward making the United States a true democracy, to join in a national campaign for mandatory military or other service? Think how different the last five years might have been if such a system had been in place. 
 What greater motivation do we need than to reflect on the lives and opportunities needlessly lost since 9/11 because so many of us can afford to sit on the sidelines instead of having a personal stake in forcing our leaders to seek solutions more creative than war?

Thomas N. Bethell
Washington, Sept. 11, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''Waiting for Al Qaeda'' (column, Sept. 9): 
 John Tierney has a point. If Al Qaeda means to destroy Western civilization, it is certainly going about it at a leisurely pace. 
 Yet I'm not ready to dismiss the threat as overhyped. Reason: the prospect of a nuclear attack (even from the trunk of a car) on a major city.
 Yes, it would have already happened if it were easy. But all technology becomes more widely available over time, and nuclear technology is now ending its 60-year run as an exclusive property.
 With lightly guarded weapons-grade material spread around the former Soviet Union, not to mention two fanatical regimes working assiduously to build their own arsenals, this is the threat that dwarfs all others. 
 No vast army is required; patience, money and motivation will do it.

Michael Smith
Cynthiana, Ky., Sept. 10, 2006

To the Editor:
 ''10 Ways to Avoid the Next 9/11: The President's Plan,'' by Frances Fragos Townsend, the White House homeland security adviser (Op-Ed, Sept. 10), underscores just how out of touch the Bush administration is. 
 Conveniently not mentioned are the disaster of Iraq and the incompetent response to Hurricane Katrina.
 Contrary to Ms. Townsend's statement that the Department of Homeland Security has ''transformed the fight'' against terrorism, it is an inept bureaucracy led by Republican cronies.
 Has imprisoning and torturing people and unlawfully spying on American citizens really been successful? Isn't Osama bin Laden still at large?

Eric Hipp
Brooklyn, Sept. 11, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''10 Ways to Avoid the Next 9/11'' (Op-Ed, Sept. 10):
 Certainly, the 9/11 attacks took many lives and caused incalculable economic and emotional damage. But every year exponentially more Americans suffer from things that are less spectacular but more chronically devastating: poverty, under-education, crime, disease and even energy dependence.
 So let's take this moment to remember the victims of 9/11, but also let's pause for perspective. It's time that we applied more of our money and energy to the problems we can control rather than fear and obsess about those we cannot. 

Robert J. Inlow
Charlottesville, Va., Sept. 10, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''Veterans of Sept. 11'' (editorial, Sept. 9):
 All candidates for office this fall should be asked whether they support efforts to help the living heroes of 9/11. If they say no, or provide a ''political answer,'' no one should vote for them.
 Care of those who cleaned up after one of the greatest tragedies affecting our country should be among our highest priorities. The federal, state and local governments should insist that our responders receive appropriate medical attention now.

Salvatore J. Bommarito
New York, Sept. 9, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paul Hoppe)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WORLD WAR II (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); HIJACKING (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Terrorism; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Terrorism

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (78%); JOHN F TIERNEY (69%); FRANK RICH (59%) Jodi Wilken; William Stableford; John Domeracki; Ellen Stark; Bill Kalter; Katherine A Trimarco; Howard F Jaeckel; Denny Freidenrich; Thomas N Bethell; Michael (Cynthiana, Ky) Smith; Eric Hipp; Robert J Inlow; Salvatore J Bommarito; Frank Rich; John Tierney; Frances Fragos Townsend; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Washington (DC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



242 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; SOLUTIONS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: A Call to Duty Can Overwhelm Small Companies

BYLINE: By LEE ROBERTS

 BODY:
WOODY WARREN never thought that being in the National Guard would put him out of business. But that is what almost happened.
 Mr. Warren was preparing for another season with his company, DSW Lawn Service, in Crestwood, Mo., when his National Guard unit was called to duty in Iraq in March 2003.
''I got called up right at the same time my season starts,'' he said. ''That kind of sank me right there.'' 
 Mr. Warren scrambled to keep his two-employee business alive. He found someone who had previously worked with him to take over daily operations, and enlisted his wife to do the bookkeeping. That would sustain the business for the next six months, which is how long Mr. Warren thought his deployment would last. Before the six months were up, his operations manager quit and his deployment was extended to a year.
 ''I figured I'd be home by Christmas, or at least by the start of the 2004 season,'' he said.
 But Mr. Warren's stay was extended a second time, until July 2004, forcing him to close for the year. He lost $50,000 to $60,000 in business the year he was gone, he said. His wife and two children scraped by on his military salary. He was able to restart his business when he returned, but only by taking a loan.
 Mr. Warren's predicament is similar to many small-business owners who have been called to duty in the National Guard or Reserves. Of the 100,000 active-duty guardsmen and women and reservists, about 18 percent are employed by small businesses, defined as having 100 or fewer employees, said Maj. Robert Palmer, a spokesman for the National Committee for Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve, a Defense Department organization. 
 Of that 18 percent, many of the soldiers are in businesses with just a few employees and many are business owners. ''And they're serving on active duty for longer periods of time than they used to,'' Major Palmer said. The Small Business Administration estimates that 6 percent of Guard members are self-employed or are small-business owners.
 There are few safety nets for small-business owners who are deployed from the National Guard or Reserves. 
 Last year, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship, proposed giving businesses with 50 or fewer employees a tax credit of up to $21,000 to cover salary shortfalls for mobilized reservists and costs for temporary replacements. But it stalled in committee.
 The Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, known as Userra, which guarantees the job security of reservists and guardsmen who are called to active duty, is meant to protect employees but does not really cover self-employment, Major Palmer said.
 ''Userra is one of the few employment laws that doesn't make a distinction between the size of employers,'' he said. ''It places a unique challenge on a small employer.'' 
 Thomas Gotsis, a St. Louis dentist, said, ''Guys like me take a big hit.''
 Dr. Gotsis, who was in the National Guard, was deployed to Kosovo from November 2000 to January 2001 to do dental work on the soldiers. He was then called to Fort Knox in 2003 and to Camp Shelby, near Hattiesburg, Miss., in 2005. ''What hurt me was getting called up every 18 to 20 months or so,'' he said.
 Though Dr. Gotsis was told in advance that he would be serving, he had about five months to get his office in order. He kept one dental hygienist to clean teeth and one person at the front desk. But the breaks have been costly. He estimates that he lost about $250,000 for each of the three times he was deployed ''in terms of lost production and accounts receivable going down to nothing,'' he said.
 Mr. Warren and Dr. Gotsis sought financial help from the Veterans Business Resource Center, a nonprofit advocacy group in St. Louis. They were directed to a program called the Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan, operated by the Small Business Administration, which offers loans up to $1.5 million and up to 4 percent interest. Mr. Warren said he used some of the money to buy a new computer for his business and to upgrade his landscaping equipment.
 ''It was helpful to them, but we still didn't fix it,'' said Pat Heavey, director of the resource center, ''because both of these guys had to assume debt to get back into business.''
 Despite the economic hardships, both Mr. Warren and Dr. Gotsis say they have no regrets about serving. 
 ''I wouldn't trade it in for anything,'' Mr. Warren said. ''That's what we've been called to do. That's our mission.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: HARDSHIP -- Woody Warren, left, of DSW Lawn Service, served in the National Guard. Dr. Thomas Gotsis's practice was hurt by his three Guard deployments. (Photographs by Tim Parker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (86%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); LANDSCAPING SERVICES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (60%); TAX LAW (60%); TERRORISM (59%) Small Business; United States Armament and Defense; Reserves (Military); Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: National Guard (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (73%) Lee Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) IRAQ (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



243 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1061 words

HEADLINE: China's Trade Surplus Sets Another Record

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
China's trade surplus with the world ballooned last month to $18.8 billion as exports soared, setting a fourth consecutive monthly record, according to preliminary customs figures released on Monday.
 The surplus gives fresh ammunition to requests by American and European officials that China intervene less in currency trading to hold down the value of its currency, the yuan. Letting market forces set the yuan's value could lead to faster appreciation of the currency, making Chinese exports less competitive and making imported foreign goods more competitive in China.
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. is scheduled to visit Beijing late next week in his first visit to China since he took office in July. But having cooperated closely with Chinese officials as chairman and chief executive of Goldman Sachs before moving to the Treasury, Mr. Paulson has taken a low-key approach in coordinating Bush administration policies toward China and has thus skirted confrontation so far. 
 Mr. Paulson will first attend the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which are Sept. 19 and 20 in Singapore. That gathering is also likely to include a review of the effectiveness of these institutions in working with countries that persistently run trade surpluses but resist currency appreciation.
 In Washington, Congressional pressure for action on China abated during the summer as other issues like immigration policy captured lawmakers' attention. Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, have postponed efforts to push through steep tariffs on goods from China.
 China's trade surplus widened last month mainly because of rising exports, which climbed 32.7 percent from a year ago. Imports still rose a respectable 24.5 percent. 
 ''The Chinese demand remains strong; the rest of the world is even stronger despite all the talk of a U.S. consumption slowdown,'' said Tao Dong, the chief Asia economist at Credit Suisse.
 Mr. Tao and other experts said that the strong exports might prompt the Chinese government to continue trying to restrain rapid growth in investment. Possible measures include further increases in bank reserve requirements and maybe higher interest rates.
 Even before last month's surge, China set trade surplus records of $13 billion in May, $14.5 billion in June and $14.62 billion in July.
 Managers at two Chinese businesses said that their exports had been strong last month, but that there had not been a sudden spike in output.
 Leo Cheng, the deputy manager for shoes at Guangzhou Light Holdings Footwear Headgear Suitcases and Bags Ltd., in Guangzhou, the largest city in southeastern China, said the company was working steadily on existing orders.
 The company has not yet heard from customers in response to recent price increases imposed because of the rising yuan, which has climbed 4 percent against the dollar in the past 14 months, he said.
 Alex Xue, a senior manager at the Jiangsu Soho Technology Trading Company in Nanjing, in east central China, said the company planned its production months in advance based on orders and had stuck to its factory schedules. ''Our exports are growing solidly within our expectations,'' he said.
 The yuan actually weakened slightly on Monday against the dollar, slipping seven-hundredths of a percent, to 7.9542 to the dollar, in Shanghai trading. The drop came after Zhou Xiaochuan, the governor of the People's Bank of China, the country's central bank, suggested on Sunday in Basel, Switzerland, that China would expand the ''flexibility'' of the currency.
 Currency experts interpreted the comment as confirmation of a willingness by Beijing officials to allow occasional drops in the yuan. Drops punish speculators who bet that the yuan will only continue to appreciate, but are inevitable as market forces play a greater role, a goal that Chinese officials espouse. 
 Economists suggested a couple of technical reasons that China's already surging exports might have been particularly strong in August.
 Chinese officials have been publicly mulling whether to reduce or eliminate rebates of value-added taxes for a long list of exports, mainly metals like steel that require a lot of energy and water to produce, at a time when large areas of China are short on both. So exporters may have wanted to complete shipments before the rules change.
 Strong exports also may be a sign of renewed speculation that China will allow a faster pace of currency appreciation.
 Exports soared in the mid-1990's during a boom in China, but part of the increase later turned out to have involved foreign-owned companies in China that overbilled their affiliates outside China as a way to push money into China despite Chinese controls on money flowing in and out of the country, said Andy Xie, the China economist at Morgan Stanley.
 ''The experience of the last cycle is exports were overstated on the way up and understated on the way down,'' he said.
 Mr. Xie said that he suspected Chinese companies had overstated exports in August because Korea and Taiwan earlier announced fairly modest increases in exports last month, and their trade tends to fluctuate roughly in line with China's. Few large companies have disclosed big jumps in their exports, he added.
 But Mr. Tao said that many Chinese manufacturers were operating full tilt and had order books that were full at least through Christmas, and in some cases into next year.
 China is quick to release preliminary trade figures at the end of each month, but does so by providing few details. So the figures released on Monday included no breakdown by country, although the bulk of China's surplus has been with the United States, and experts expect the situation to remain that way.
 The latest trade surplus puts China on track to have a trade surplus in goods of as much as $150 billion this year, and a current account surplus of as much as $220 billion. China's foreign exchange reserves, the world's largest, have climbed briskly as a result, hitting $954.4 billion by the end of July, and they are expected to reach $1 trillion soon.
 Carl B. Weinberg, an economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., said in a newsletter on Monday morning, ''Do the math and a 13-digit figure for end-September seems quite likely.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Growing Surplus''China's trade surplus with the rest of the world ballooned in August.Graph tracks China's balance of trade from 2001-2006.(Sources by CEIC Data
 General Administration of Customs of China)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FOOTWEAR (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%) International Trade and World Market; Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States International Relations

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (79%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (52%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%) Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: GUANGZHOU, CHINA (74%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (74%); JIANGSU, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%) China; Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



244 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Reports Unity Deal With Hamas to End Aid Cutoff

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER and GREG MYRE; Steven Erlanger reported from Gaza, and Greg Myre from Jerusalem.

DATELINE: GAZA, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
The Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, said Monday that he had reached a tentative agreement with Hamas to form a national unity government in an attempt to end the Palestinians' international isolation and the cutoff in Western assistance to their government.
 In a speech on Palestinian television, Mr. Abbas said it would take several days to finish the deal, and provided no details of how his Fatah faction and the militant group Hamas, which leads the government, had resolved their considerable differences.
 ''We have finalized the elements of the political agenda of the national unity government,'' Mr. Abbas said in his speech. ''Hopefully, in the coming days we will begin forming the government of national unity.''
 Details of the political agreement were believed to be limited to the unity government, rather than committing the Hamas movement more broadly to its terms. A national unity government will also have representatives of other Palestinian factions like Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, said Ghazi Hamad, the spokesman for the Hamas government. 
 ''We're trying to make a balance between the requirements of the international community and Palestinian factions,'' Mr. Hamad said. ''For everyone to sit at the same table won't be easy, but we need to do this. We hope it will break the international siege and minimize the tensions on the street.''
 Mr. Abbas's intention in pressing to form this new government is to regain the funds that have been cut off to Hamas, by the West and by Israel, since it took office in late March.
 Aides to Mr. Abbas said he hoped to be able to disband the current Hamas government within 48 hours, but that the two factions still disagreed over important portfolios. They are agreed that the current prime minister, Ismail Haniya of Hamas, will keep his job, and that Fatah will control the Finance Ministry. Fatah also wants the foreign minister's post, but Hamas wants Mahmoud Zahar, a Hamas leader, to keep it. Hamas also wants to keep the Interior Ministry.
 Officials said the new government would accept all previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements, an implicit recognition of a two-state solution. It would call for the negotiation of an independent Palestine outside of Israel's 1967 borders, including Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem, on the basis of an Arab League initiative.
 The document is expected to recognize the Palestine Liberation Organization, which has signed all agreements with Israel, as the negotiating representative of the Palestinian people, and to acknowledge the right of Mr. Abbas to negotiate for the Palestinians.
 After Hamas formed the government, which Fatah initially refused to join, the United States and the European Union took steps to halt aid to the Palestinian Authority that constitutes part of the authority's budget, and Israel stopped handing over the $50 million a month in taxes and customs receipts collected on behalf of the Palestinians, a major reason for the Palestinian deficit. 
 All said that the government of Hamas, which they have considered a terrorist group, must first recognize the right of Israel to exist, forswear violence and accept previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements.
 Since Hamas gained control of the government in March, the 165,000 employees of the Palestinian Authority have received less than two months of their salaries, causing considerable hardship and a collapse of the economy, especially in Gaza. Crossings into Israel from Gaza have been regularly closed, which Israel said was a result of security threats.
 It is not known whether the unpublished program of the unfinished new government will be enough for Israel to hand over funds that now total more than $350 million. The European Union has already suggested, though not explicitly, that it will resume contacts and aid to a unity government, and the United States, which does not give direct budget support, has been wary, but its view will be important in the Israeli decision.
 Ziad Abu Amr, a lawmaker and mediator in the negotiations, said that if a new government did not permit the resumption of funds transfers and aid, ''there's not much point to the whole exercise.''
 The Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman, Mark Regev, said that if a new Palestinian government accepted the three international conditions ''and releases Gilad Shalit,'' a captured Israeli soldier, ''that would create a new momentum in the peace process and put us firmly on the right track.''
 But he added, ''Anything short of that would unfortunately lead to more stagnation that is not good for Israel, not good for the Palestinians and not good for anyone who wants peace in the Middle East.''
 The Israeli foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, told Israel radio that if the new government did not meet international conditions, and if Mr. Abbas ''decides not to take a step in this direction, but rather join something which actually means he is joining a Hamas-led government of terror, then I'm afraid we are going to have a problem.'' 
 Hamas has moved a long distance, said Mr. Hamad, the Hamas government spokesman, adding, ''No one should push them into a corner.'' 
 Hamas recognizes the fact of Israel but refuses to recognize its right to exist, a position repeated Monday by a Hamas spokesman, Sami Abu Zuhri, when he said: ''Hamas will still have its political agenda. We will never recognize the legitimacy of the occupation.'' That term lets Hamas be vague at different moments about whether it means the occupation of land captured during the 1967 war, or, as its charter insists, Israel's very existence in the region.
 But Mr. Hamad points out that the charter of Israel's conservative Likud Party calls for an Israel on both banks of the Jordan River, even as Likud governments have recognized the Oslo peace agreements of more than a decade ago and a two-state solution.
 Since Fatah and Hamas agreed in principle on a national unity government in June, Mr. Abbas has made several statements indicating that a deal was close. He put major questions to Mr. Haniya 10 days ago, and reportedly threatened to dismiss the current government if it did not agree to work with Fatah to end the international aid freeze for the benefit of Palestinians in general. 
 Fatah says it is prepared to negotiate with Israel, and seeks a Palestinian state based on Israel's 1967 borders, which would include all of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, with a capital in East Jerusalem. Hamas says that all the land in the region belongs to Muslims, but has said it would consider a long-term truce with Israel if a Palestinian state were established based on the 1967 borders.
 Broke and isolated, largely because of Israeli and American policy, the Hamas government has been ineffective since coming to power in March. Many Palestinian teachers went on strike at the beginning of the school year in early September. On Monday, Mr. Abbas called for the strike to end.
 ''We call for a return to work and the end of the strike because all the sons of the Palestinian people should unite in the national interest,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 19, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Tuesday about an announcement by the Palestinian president of an agreement to form a unity government misstated a provision of the charter of Israel's conservative Likud Party regarding Israel's borders. The charter defines the Jordan River as the eastern border of Israel and does not call for an Israel on both banks of the Jordan, though some early participants and leaders in the party took that position.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ismail Haniya, center, the Palestinian prime minister, arriving at his office in Gaza yesterday with guards. He and Mahmoud Abbas, president of the Palestinian Authority, agreed on a unity government, Mr. Abbas said. (Photo by Hatem Moussa/Associated Press)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); AL FATAH (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); RELIGION (72%); BUDGETS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%) Palestinians; Politics and Government; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); HEZBOLLAH (83%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (83%); PALESTINE LIBERATION FRONT (82%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (59%) Hamas; Fatah; Palestine Liberation Organization; Islamic Jihad; Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine; Arab League

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (93%) Mahmoud (Pres) Abbas; Ismail (Prime Min) Haniya; Gilad (Cpl) Shalit; Steven Erlanger; Greg Myre

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%) Israel; Gaza Strip; Israel; West Bank; Jerusalem; Israel

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



245 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: Uruguay at Center of Lively U.S.-Venezuela Chess Game

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay 

 BODY:
Long taken for granted by its much larger neighbors, Uruguay suddenly finds itself one of the main fronts in the struggle between the United States and Venezuela for dominance in South America. The Bush administration and President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela are jockeying for position here, each trying to undercut the other by winning over Uruguay's left-wing government.
 Washington is offering a free-trade agreement that would pull Uruguay into the United States' orbit and weaken Mercosur, the regional trade group to which Uruguay and Venezuela belong. Mr. Chavez has countered with attention-getting investments, subsidized oil, acts of charity and a growing alliance with left-wing factions of the ruling Broad Front.
 Pablo da Silveira, a professor of political philosophy at Catholic University of Uruguay and a political commentator, likens what is happening to ''a geopolitical chess game, in which Venezuela is playing the black pieces, in other words, oil'' in an effort to gain influence. In this small, strategically situated place, he added, ''Chavez and the United States are seeking the same thing, and for the same reason: to make Uruguay a test case'' for their widely varying visions of the region. 
 Mr. Chavez, for example, has pledged to invest an estimated $500 million in an oil refinery here and has invited the Uruguayan state oil company to join its Venezuelan counterpart in exploration projects. As it has done in Cuba and the Caribbean, Venezuela is supplying petroleum products at a discount, and Mr. Chavez has promised that a gas pipeline he wants to build from Caracas to Buenos Aires will pass through here.
 Venezuela has also put up money that allows some unprofitable ventures in Uruguay that employ relatively large numbers of people -- like tire, glass and sugar plants -- to stay in business. Most recently, the Chavez government has offered support for an ailing government financial cooperative that makes small loans to people and small businesses that normally do not qualify for bank loans.
 ''It doesn't cost Chavez a lot of money, but it generates a lot of good will,'' said Danilo Arbilla, a former editor in chief at the weekly magazine Busqueda. ''That way, when he comes here, he's solved people's problems, and they will go out for him.''
 Not to be outdone, the United States has countered with a proposal to build a medical and dental clinic near a working-class area of Montevideo. Left-wing groups aligned with Mr. Chavez maintain that the offer is really a plot by the Pentagon to establish a military base in Uruguay. 
 The Bush administration's main thrust, however, is its offer of a free-trade accord that would allow Uruguay to increase exports of meat, leather, cheese and other products to the United States.
 Uruguay's population and economy are small, with barely three million people and total trade with the United States amounting to slightly more than $1 billion last year. But the country is a member of the Mercosur customs union, which includes Brazil and Argentina, and a free-trade agreement with the United States would weaken the group and put pressure on Uruguay's two big neighbors to negotiate bilateral accords with Washington.
 Uruguay's relations with Argentina and Brazil have been tense recently. Argentina is trying to block work by a Finnish-Swedish consortium and a Spanish company on two cellulose plants, the largest foreign investment in Uruguay's history. 
 Brazil declined Uruguay's request to mediate the dispute -- Argentina says the plants violate a border treaty -- which has raised what Uruguayans consider unreasonable barriers to trade and torpedoed the candidacy of an Uruguayan, Carlos Perez del Castillo, to be director of the World Trade Organization.
 Early this year, Tabare Vazquez, Uruguay's first Socialist president, told a radio station here that ''Mercosur has become more a problem than a solution.'' But in an interview in late August, he said his country had no intention of leaving the group, but wanted instead ''more and better Mercosur,'' without ''giving up our right to open ourselves to the rest of the world.''
 Mr. Vazquez was reluctant, though, to say explicitly that he favored a free-trade agreement with the United States. Brazil and Argentina have suggested at various times that such an accord with the United States would be incompatible with membership in Mercosur and could be grounds for expulsion.
 ''Both countries want to improve their commercial exchanges with each other, and we have agreed that paths exists that allow us to achieve that objective,'' he said, referring to the United States and Uruguay. ''We've set a methodology and a timetable,'' he added, a reference to the fact that President Bush will lose his authority to negotiate ''fast track'' trade agreements June 30, 2007, unless Congress renews it. Though the United States has already signed an investment treaty with Uruguay, Washington initially showed little interest in a free-trade accord. Two Bush administration officials had all but ruled out the idea before Mr. Bush announced, during a visit by Mr. Vazquez to the White House in May, that he favored ''extending our commercial relations'' and suggested that talks begin here as soon as possible.
 Mr. Bush made his offer as Venezuela was preparing to join the Mercosur group, which was founded in 1991 and is based here. Venezuela was formally accepted into the group in July, and Mr. Chavez's public statements have made it clear that he would like to transform Mercosur into more of a political alliance with an anti-American tint.
 But Mr. Chavez may have overplayed his hand by suggesting the creation of a NATO-like alliance and a common Mercosur army. That proposal was not well received in the four original member countries, Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, all of which endured military dictatorships in the 1970's that committed major rights violations, and Mr. Vazquez said in the interview that the idea did not interest him.
 Within Mr. Vazquez's governing coalition, though, left-wing groups close to Mr. Chavez and his ''Bolivarian Revolution'' to raise living standards for the poor have been working to undermine Mr. Vazquez's flirtation with Washington. Montevideo is awash in graffiti that emphatically proclaim ''No F.T.A. with the Yankees!'' and an ''anti-imperialist forum'' held here late in August called for closer ties with Venezuela.
 At a 10-hour televised congressional hearing here in late August, those differences were on display. 
 Uruguay's finance minister, Danilo Astori, argued for an accord with Washington. Its foreign minister, Reinaldo Gargano, made the case for Venezuela: a 314 percent increase in trade in the first half of this year, more than a score of cooperation accords signed in the last 18 months and the strengthening of what he called ''South-South relations.''
 But ''the Chavez option is only interesting if he can compensate what we lose in trade opportunities each year by being inside Mercosur,'' an official, speaking on condition of anonymity because Mr. Vazquez has said only he is authorized to speak on the subject. ''But his internal situation won't let him spend that kind of money year after year. He can afford millions, but not billions.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hugo Chavez of Venezuela with Tabare Vazquez of Uruguay before a portrait of Simon Bolivar. (Photo by Juan Barreto/Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); POPULATION SIZE (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (70%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (65%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (65%); SUGAR MFG (65%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (62%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (61%) United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (57%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Tabare (Pres) Vazquez; Larry Rohter

GEOGRAPHIC: URUGUAY (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CUBA (79%) Uruguay; Venezuela; Uruguay

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



246 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Rice Indicates Slight Shift In Stance on Iran Sanctions 

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: PICTOU, Canada, Sept. 11 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, in an ever-so-slight softening of America's stance, on Monday left open the possibility that the United States might suspend efforts to impose sanctions against Iran if it suspended uranium enrichment for two months.
 ''First of all, it would have to be suspension -- verified suspension,'' Ms. Rice said. ''Secondly, it's suspension for suspension. We've said that if they suspend,'' the United States would in turn halt its pursuit of United Nations sanctions against Iran and would join European talks with Tehran over its nuclear program. 
Reuters reported Sunday that Ali Larijani, Iran's top nuclear negotiator, had said that Iran would be willing to consider a two-month moratorium on its uranium-enrichment program. But other Iranian officials denied that, and European diplomats have been cautious about what Iran might really have offered.
 Ms. Rice, who said Monday that she had spoken with the European Union foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, about his continuing talks with Mr. Larijani, also urged caution. ''As far as I know, the Iranians have not said that they would suspend prior to negotiations, which is what the issue has been,'' she said. 
 Mr. Solana said Sunday that he made progress in the search for a compromise with Iran, and added that he and Mr. Larijani would meet again soon. 
 The United States has long contended that Iran is stalling for time to develop what American officials say is a nuclear weapons capacity. Iran says its nuclear program is only to produce energy for civilian use. 
 Ms. Rice, speaking to reporters aboard a flight to Halifax, said that ''the time is coming very soon when we'll have to vote on a Security Council resolution'' about Iran. But, she added, ''From our point of view we have nothing to lose, as we work toward this Security Council resolution, having Javier Solana explore with the Iranians whether there's a way to get to negotiations.'' 
 In Canada for ceremonies to mark Sept. 11, Ms. Rice thanked the nation for opening its airports to United States-bound flights on that day and honored Canadian victims of the attacks.
 Much of the language regarding Iran is nuance. The formal proposal made earlier this summer by the United States and Europe to Iran -- to suspend its enrichment activities in exchange for a package of incentives or face sanctions -- does not require a permanent suspension.
 Indeed, the proposal even includes an offer that one senior Bush administration official characterized at the time as the ''when hell freezes over'' clause: that Iran, after it has satisfied regulatory bodies that its nuclear ambitions are peaceful, might at some point in the future be allowed to enrich uranium on its own soil. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly on the issue.
 But the Bush administration has long made clear that what it wants is a permanent suspension. While that remains so, the coalition of six countries that made the offer to Iran is fragile, with Russia and China far less agreeable to the idea of sanctions against Iran than the United States and its European allies, Britain, France and Germany. 
 In order to keep Russia and China on board, Ms. Rice has taken pains to try to present the United States as taking a reasonable position and being willing to work with the Iranians. But the Americans have insisted all along on one non-negotiable demand: that Iran must suspend its enrichment activities.
 The apparent shift in the American stance also reflects the hard realities that there are few good options on Iran, even if the Bush administration is able to get Russia and China to sign on to sanctions. Iran defied an Aug. 31 deadline set by the United Nations Security Council to halt production of nuclear fuel. 
 The United States is trying to get Russia and China, along with the European Union, to impose sanctions through the Security Council, beginning with restrictions on imports of nuclear-related equipment and material. Eventually, punitive measures might expand to restrict travel by Iran's leaders and limit Iran's access to global financial markets.
 But few diplomats believe that Russia and China will agree to more than weak sanctions, and Ms. Rice must calculate whether the coalition will remain intact. If it does not, the United States could be left facing the possibility of further conflict in the Middle East at a time when it is still grappling with the Iraq war. 
 A nonproliferation analyst, speaking anonymously because he has not yet had time to review all the implications, said that part of the apparent new willingness by the United States to consider a temporary suspension might reflect the need to seize on any possible daylight with a country that has been an adversary since its Islamic revolution in 1979.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice during a visit to Canada yesterday to commemorate Sept. 11. (Photo by Paul Darrow/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN POLICY (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (57%) Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Uranium

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (82%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (59%) United Nations; Security Council (Un)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (94%); JAVIER SOLANA (78%); ALI LARIJANI (74%) Helene Cooper; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); IRAN (79%) Iran; European Union

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



247 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: The Apocalypse Will Be Blogged

BYLINE: By Bernard Haykel and Saud al-Sarhan. 
Bernard Haykel, an associate professor of Islamic studies at New York University, is the author of ''Revival and Reform in Islam.'' Saud al-Sarhan is a Saudi Arabia-based analyst of Islamist groups.

 BODY:
NEARLY every organ of the American news media marked the fifth anniversary of Sept. 11 yesterday. But the Web sites affiliated with many of militant jihadism's top thinkers, including Abu Muhammad al-Maqdisi and Sulayman al-Alwan, remained silent. That shouldn't surprise us: the Salafi strain of Islam, to which most jihadis subscribe, prohibits commemorating anniversaries. 
 Celebrations other than the holidays of Id al-Fitr and Id al-Adha are considered reprehensible adaptations of non-Muslim ways. What's more, the jihadis normally use the lunar calendar, by which the fifth anniversary of Sept. 11, 2001, fell on July 19.
Perhaps more remarkable was the fact that this year, a number of Web sites affiliated with Al Qaeda did commemorate the day -- no doubt because they knew Americans would. Osama bin Laden and his associates have generally referred to the Sept. 11 attacks as ''the attacks on Manhattan,'' ''the invasion of Manhattan'' or the ''attacks of Jumada,'' the lunar month in which they occurred. But this year, a number of jihadi sites have referred instead to Sept. 11. 
 Some messages yesterday were clearly meant for Western consumption, reminding the United States that Al Qaeda is still active and bent on future attacks, and even posting images overlaid with threats in English.
 What follow are excerpts, translated from the Arabic, from texts posted on jihadi Web sites about the anniversary.
 A jihadi Web site associated with Al Qaeda posted the following plea beneath images of the American, Israeli and Danish flags. The text was interspersed with animated images of American company logos, including one with a row of praying Muslims dressed as Coca-Cola bottles.
 With God's help and yours, let us make the fifth anniversary of the events of Sept. 11 the beginning of a boycott of all Zionist-American products that are sold in Arab and Muslim countries. Many continue to buy these products despite all they see and hear about the killing, torture and destruction that Muslims are faced with due to the Crusader and Zionist-American war. Let us boycott these products because we do not need them, nor are they to be considered absolute necessities. Here is a list of the companies and products that should be boycotted: Coca-Cola, Proctor & Gamble, Nike, Mars, McDonald's ''Pepsi'' stands for ''Pay Every Penny to Save Israel.'' 
 I'm against America even if it turns this life into a paradise
 I'm against America even if a mufti issues a fatwa in its favor from within the glorious Kaaba
 I'm with Osama no matter where he might be, so long as he carries a banner on the battle front
 I'm with Osama whether he gains a quick victory or attains the rank of the martyrs.
 A submission to a Qaeda Web site called for readers to sign their names to the following statement:
 In the name of God the merciful and the compassionate, Monday morning is the fifth anniversary of the glorious attacks on New York and Washington accomplished by the 19 heroes of the Muslim community -- may God have mercy on them and raise them to the highest rank for their sacrifice. They pressed America's nose into the ground and allowed the whole world to witness the destruction of its economic and military citadels. In so doing, they crushed the myth with which America had terrorized the world, namely that it was the greatest power on earth and no one was strong enough to confront, let alone make an enemy, of it. 
 That day changed the world, even by the admission of our enemies, and created a world divided into two camps, as our sheik and leader Osama bin Laden -- may God protect him -- has stated: ''A camp of belief and another camp of hypocrisy and disbelief.'' Choose for yourself, o Muslim, which camp to belong to: that of belief, Islam and jihad under the banner of the holy warriors or that of hypocrisy and unbelief under the banner of America, the crusading West and those hypocrites who have banded with them. Our congratulations to all and we beseech God to show us in America another black day like that blessed Tuesday.
 A poster calling himself Abu Lujayn Ibrahim contributed the following to a Saudi site that often posts jihadi material but is not controlled by Al Qaeda. 
 The text was interspersed with gruesome photographs of dead and mutilated children in the Middle East.
 Before my eyes is a veil that does not permit me to see those killed in the twin towers, nor to remember them on this day. Indeed, I don't see those killed in the twin towers nor remember them on this day! Do you know why? 
 Because their fallen are not purer or better than our fallen. And because the blood of my Muslim brothers and that of my family in Palestine and in Iraq and in Afghanistan and in every location in which Muslim blood is shed has blocked my vision filled my retinas with black lines so that I can see only our martyrs and injured being slain by America's weapons and its support . Yes, Sept. 11 is the anniversary of the fall of American arrogance into history's garbage dump, and of the rebellion against injustice.
 Hamid ibn Abdallah al-Ali is a Kuwaiti ideologue of jihadism -- the only Qaeda intellectual to have posted a text specifically for the Sept. 11 anniversary. The sheik cites an article by Leonard Peikoff, heir and executor to Ayn Rand, that appeared as an advertisement in The New York Times shortly after the 9/11 attacks.
 In his article ''End States that Sponsor Terrorism,'' Leonard Peikoff, one of the leading ideologues of American extremism, concluded that America's policy of appeasement toward the Muslim world led to Sept. 11. For 50 years, he writes, American administrations have relinquished their true ownership rights over Muslim oil resources, which they discovered and developed the technology to extract. The solution, according to Mr. Peikoff, is for the United States to eliminate the states that sponsor terrorism with the most lethal weapons at its disposal. 
 This is exactly the kind of rotten thinking that animates those living in the extreme west of the globe, from where they spread their rot to the rest of the world -- these politicians of underdevelopment, criminality and mass extermination of humanity. This is the arrogance of fascism, of which Bush has accused Muslims recently: in this case it is the fascism of the cross standing on the tribunes of oil. In short, it means that they own our oil that is in our land; they own our blood, which they can shed at will; they own our present and future, and they have the right to change our history and our education!
 Hunger, disease, thirst and regional wars instigated by poverty all stem from the greed of the West, its thirst for plunder and desire to control the world's wealth. These in turn lead to a rate of destruction every year that equals the destruction World War II effected over six years.
 The mercenaries who dominate the World Trade Organization the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund the bloodsuckers of the world's poor, the immiserators of nations and the thieves, murderers, shedders of blood: these are the ones who control the international political system. They are the ones who spread their armies throughout the world, terrorizing and stealing the wealth of nations while enslaving them. They are the ones who are exterminating the people of Afghanistan, Iraq, Palestine, Lebanon and other places. They are the ones who ally themselves to the despotic rulers in order to suck the blood of the people, using companies that are owned by the leaders of their countries and headed by murderers and criminals.
 This essay, called ''The Day Smoke and Dust Covered New York's Sky,'' was posted to a Qaeda-affiliated Web site: 
 What a beautiful morning it is today, an amazing morning when we witnessed this great power flailing in every direction as if it were a slaughtered headless animal. 
 Some believe that if Bush were to leave then the situation would improve and become stable. But the eternal truth is that there is no difference between Bush and the one who preceded him, or the one who will succeed him, and for a very simple reason: cloning is an inherent property of the American presidential personality. Every new president is a perfect copy of the previous one 
 Three children, 10 or 11 years old, who watched the recently released film ''United 93'' at the theater zealously and gleefully cheered when the plane hit the tower, as if they were watching a goal being scored in a soccer match against an opposing team. What is it that makes these children so happy about this crash that they stand up and strongly applaud? Ask yourselves, oh Americans, what is it that made those 19 young men engage in such a legendary and miraculous act? 
 Naturally, you will not bother to investigate, because you are not concerned with the reasons, and even if you find the answer you are incapable of understanding it. Therefore, nothing will change, and your troops will continue to invade our lands in order to teach us lessons about the virtues of American freedom and the well-known methods for spreading them, like flushing the Quran down the toilet, or one of your soldiers' stepping with his filthy foot on the face of a prisoner, having placed a metal chain like a dog leash around his neck, as we saw in Abu Ghraib.
 You will witness anew men as brilliant as Khalid Shaikh Mohammed and Ramzi bin al-Shibh, and as determined as Muhammad Atta, whom you saw on the monitoring screens full of self-assurance in his blue shirt. Who knows, perhaps we will see another glorious day soon!


GRAPHIC: Photos: Screen captures from jihadi Web sites commemorating the anniversary. (Photos by Thomas Porostocky and Lars Klove)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); AL-QAEDA (91%); ANNIVERSARIES (91%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); WEB SITES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BOYCOTTS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); RAMADAN (76%); EID AL-ADHA (76%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Pentagon Building; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; United States Armament and Defense; Islam; Terrorism; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (53%); PGP (PAR) (51%); PG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (53%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (51%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%) Bernard Haykel; Saud al- Sarhan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (92%) New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



248 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: The Republican Collapse May Not Be So Imminent

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

Building Red America
The New Conservative Coalition and the Drive for Permanent Power
By Thomas B. Edsall
320 pages. Basic Books. $26.
 Despite lots of talk about President Bush's dismal poll numbers, corruption scandals involving Tom DeLay and Jack Abramoff and the toll that the war in Iraq and the administration's mishandling of Hurricane Katrina may take on the Republican Party in this fall's midterm elections, the veteran political reporter Thomas B. Edsall has some bad news for Democrats. While such developments ''may take the G.O.P. down in individual elections,'' he writes in ''Building Red America,'' the Republican Party ''holds a set of advantages, some substantial and some marginal,'' that have enabled it to ''eke out victory by slim margins in a majority of closely contested elections'' and that will probably give it an edge in the foreseeable future. 
For that matter, neither party is likely to be happy with the findings of this provocative though in many ways familiar book. Mr. Edsall, who covered national politics for The Washington Post from 1981 to 2006, accuses the Republicans of using their closely contested victories to advance a conservative agenda that ''does not have the decisive support of the people,'' of further polarizing the electorate and cynically forcing it ''to pick between extremes,'' and of using ''the slimmest of political margins'' to try ''to remake America -- as well as America's role in the world.'' 
 As for Democrats, he depicts them as hapless, unfocused and reeling from self-inflicted wounds. He contends that ''the social-issue left overwhelmingly sets the agenda of the Democratic Party,'' often to the detriment of its candidates in general elections. He takes the party to task for its ''lack of credible policies'' in the areas of globalization and education. (He curiously has little to say about its internal schisms over foreign policy and national security.) 
 And he argues that ''Democrats and liberals have shown little interest in maintaining and sustaining institutions designed to produce majorities in Congress and to win the White House.'' He says that progressives tend to make project-specific grants instead of building party infrastructure and that ''the mainstay organizations of the left,'' which were created when liberals were in power, aim to influence ''sympathetic decision makers,'' not ''to wrest power from adversaries,'' as many of their counterparts on the right so aggressively do.
 Unless the Democratic Party makes fundamental changes in its structure, tactical operations and long-range strategic planning, he writes, the odds are that the Republicans ''will continue to maintain, over the long term, a thin but durable margin of victory.'' 
 Certainly Mr. Edsall has been wrong in the past: only a year before Bill Clinton captured the White House, he said in his 1991 book, ''Chain Reaction'' (written with Mary D. Edsall), that the Democratic Party was ''in danger of losing its stature as a major competitor in national politics.'' 
 And his new book is hardly without flaws: his zeal to make larger points about the two parties can lead to some gross generalizations and to his glossing over potentially significant divisions within the Republican Party between libertarians and cultural conservatives, between deficit hawks and big spenders, between practitioners of old-fashioned realpolitik and neo-conservative advocates of the Iraq war.
 Many of the observations made in this book have been made before by journalists and political strategists, but Mr. Edsall does a nimble job of pulling them together to form a coherent picture, buttressing his assessments with lots of demographic and polling data and situating them in a historical context. 
 While building upon ideas he originally set out in ''Chain Reaction,'' Mr. Edsall also grapples with more recent arguments made by writers like Thomas Frank (''What's the Matter With Kansas?''); Kevin Phillips (''American Theocracy'' and ''Wealth and Democracy,'' as well as the classic ''Emerging Republican Majority''); Jacob S. Hacker and Paul Pierson (''Off Center: The Republican Revolution and the Erosion of American Democracy''); and John Micklethwait and Adrian Wooldridge (''The Right Nation'').
 Clearly, some of Mr. Edsall's conclusions are bound to be debated. He contests the suggestion -- advanced by Mr. Frank, among others -- that the Democrats would help their cause by embracing an old-fashioned economic populism, asserting that the ideological and economic bifurcation of the party (with an affluent, college-educated elite on one end and many low-income voters on the other) does not lend itself to populist appeals. 
 In contrast to Mr. Micklethwait and Mr. Wooldridge, who have argued that ''the center of gravity in American politics has moved to the right'' and that America is truly ''in the thrall of the Right Nation,'' Mr. Edsall contends that the Republican Party ''has not achieved a political realignment'' but has simply tried to impose a deeply conservative agenda on the country ''without clear majoritarian public support.''
 As Mr. Edsall sees it, growing political polarization in the United States, the rise of the conservative movement and the recent successes of the Republican Party can best be understood in the context of two revolutions that have changed American society over the last four decades: a social and cultural revolution ''driven by a commitment to equality and the extension of rights to previously marginalized groups,'' and a technological and economic revolution that has altered the job market and business models and expectations.
 These revolutions, Mr. Edsall writes, have created ''two roughly equal partisan coalitions, one on the left, the other on the right,'' and in an effort to assemble a winning political majority, he argues, the Republican Party ''has tapped into and capitalized on the sense of dislocation and conflict generated by rapid cultural modernization among many middle- and working-class voters.'' In his opinion, it has done so largely by using wedge issues like abortion and gay marriage, which push voters' ''anger points'' and motivate the base.
 Securing the base, Mr. Edsall argues, became a central Republican strategy, especially after Mr. Bush's chief pollster, Matt Dowd, sent a memo to Karl Rove, the Republican mastermind, in the wake of the highly contested 2000 presidential vote. The memo -- which declared that the center of the electorate had collapsed, that true swing voters made up a mere 6 percent of the electorate -- destroyed, in Mr. Edsall's words, ''the rationale for Bush to govern as 'a uniter, not a divider,' '' as he had promised. Instead, it ''freed Bush to discard centrist strategies'' and promote ''polarizing policies designed explicitly to appeal to the conservative Republican core.'' 
 Mr. Dowd's finding that ''you can lose the swing voters and still win the election, if you make sure your base is bigger than theirs,'' says Mr. Edsall, decisively affected the Bush administration's policy making on matters ranging from tax cuts to the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003. 
 Mr. Edsall adds that trend lines suggest that ''in America today, the G.O.P. has bested the Democratic Party in the symbolic manipulation of controversial sociocultural issues touching upon national security, patriotism, race, sex and religion,'' and that an array of demographic developments -- including a ''geographic distribution of voters'' that gives the Republican Party ''a strong, built-in advantage in the competition for control of the House and Senate'' -- has further enhanced the party's advantages. 
 Do the Democrats possess any advantages? Mr. Edsall cites a surge in small contributions to Democrats through online credit card donations in 2004 and the party's ability to capitalize on the Web, growth in certain constituencies (like Hispanic voters) that traditionally have favored the Democratic Party and an unwillingness on the part of a growing number of younger women to relinquish their ''sexual autonomy.'' 
 His long-term outlook, however, points less to any signs of a Democratic resurgence than to what he sees as the Republican Party's philosophical shortcomings. ''The protective stance of Republicans toward the rich and the dominant,'' he writes, ''and the acquiescence to a morally and intellectually repressive social agenda are too much at odds with the American egalitarian ethic to achieve the overwhelming strength of the Democratic coalition of the New Deal era.''
 His conclusion: ''Politics functions as a market, and the political marketplace is now significantly out of balance -- it is in disequilibrium. If political parties were corporations, the political market would be viewed as territory ripe for takeover or for the entry of an outside competitor.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas B. Edsall (Photo by Perseus Books)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); LITERATURE (73%); SCANDALS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); FOREIGN POLICY (61%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (57%); HURRICANE KATRINA (56%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Michiko Kakutani; Thomas B Edsall

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



249 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: In Unpredictable District, Some Say Bush Is Politicizing Terrorism

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Mindy Sink and Katie Kelly contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ARVADA, Colo., Sept. 11 

 BODY:
Leaving services Sunday morning at Faith Bible Chapel, an evangelical megachurch, Jim McBride, a pilot who served in Vietnam, said he was not happy with President Bush's handling of Iraq. And he displayed little inclination to rethink his position despite the White House's new push to focus this year's Congressional elections on which party will keep the nation safer.
 ''I do have a bit of mistrust,'' said Mr. McBride, who said that he twice voted for Mr. Bush but that he is now disappointed -- a sentiment he said is shared by many in his Bible study group. ''The whole thing about W.M.D. and that Iraq is somehow tied to 9/11, I just don't believe it.''
Mr. Bush has plenty of supporters in this Denver suburb and the surrounding cities, an evenly divided swing district that is a bellwether in the battle for control of the House. But interviews over the last three days here found Republicans, Democrats and independents all expressing degrees of skepticism about Mr. Bush's motives in delivering a set of high-profile speeches on terrorism and the war in Iraq two months before Election Day. 
 While it is too early to know whether the White House will succeed in winning over enough voters to make a difference in what is shaping up as a tight race, the interviews suggested that Mr. Bush's newest efforts to cast his party as better suited than Democrats to defend the country had yet to overcome concern and anger among many voters about Iraq and a more generalized sense of discontent with the administration.
 ''I have been a Republican all my life, but we have just gotten to the point where we may need a change,'' said Shannon Abote, an Arvada resident who was stopping at Starbucks for a coffee on Monday morning.
 Many residents said they were aware only in general terms of Mr. Bush's recent speeches and his decision to bring high-level terrorism suspects to trial before military tribunals. They acknowledged that the terrorist threat often seemed distant, far removed from their busy lives in the shelter of the Rocky Mountains. Fewer than 20 people turned out Monday morning outside the Elks Club in Arvada to mark the fifth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks.
 ''Living in the central part of the country has probably kept terrorism from the forefront of our minds,'' said Peter Strecker as he and his wife, Robin, strolled through downtown Golden on Saturday with their 13-month-old daughter, Paige, after a sudden downpour.
 Still, even strong Bush supporters said they doubted the presidential drumbeat on terrorism would alter the political landscape here. ''I think people already have their minds made up,'' said Michael Mason, an engineer and Golden native. ''The whole thing could end tomorrow, and they would still hate his guts. The damage has been done.''
 The random interviews with dozens of residents across the Seventh Congressional District were not scientific. But they do suggest that Mr. Bush's public standing could be problematic for the Republican candidate in the race for the open House seat, Rick O'Donnell, and that the Republican push on terrorism will not necessarily pack the same political punch it did in 2002 and 2004.
 ''I think it is the only card they have got,'' said Floyd Ciruli, a longtime Denver pollster, referring to the national Republican focus on terrorism. ''Will it make a difference in Colorado? Absolutely not.'' 
 If so, that would be bad news for Congressional Republican leaders. They are counting on Mr. Bush's concerted efforts to both raise his own public approval and to simultaneously help give Republican House and Senate candidates an edge on the security issues that have dominated the last two national elections. But polls indicate that the climate is different this year, with fewer Americans confident that the fight against terrorism is going well, and Democrats, including Mr. O'Donnell's opponent, Ed Perlmutter, are vigorously trying to counter Mr. Bush.
 ''My job is to make sure that people remember that all this was brought out in '04 and '02,'' said Mr. Perlmutter. Republicans are resurrecting the ''same old plays from the same old playbook,'' he said. ''The war on terror is clearly an important subject, but they have made a mess of it.''
 Mr. O'Donnell said terrorism and the war in Iraq continued to be secondary issues in a race he described as being driven more by immigration and economic issues. ''Having the president talk about the threat to the country reminds people that we live in a dangerous world, but it is not the No. 1 issue on their minds,'' he said.
 Mr. O'Donnell, who was the beneficiary of a fund-raising visit by the president this year, has good reason to put a little distance now between himself and the president: Senator John Kerry carried the district in the 2004 presidential race.
 But Mr. Bush retains his strong backers.
 At the Sept. 11 ceremony on Monday in Arvada, Nancy Goodman, whose 21-year-old son is finishing a tour as a marine in Iraq, expressed full confidence in Mr. Bush's antiterrorism strategy.
 ''I agree with what he is doing,'' said Ms. Goodman, a Republican, who said the public could not always know the reasoning behind the administration's actions. ''We have to trust our leadership, and we have to trust our military, and we have to trust that they want to protect us.''
 Blaine Engdahl, an off-duty police officer who was waving the flag Saturday as he watched Arvada's annual harvest festival parade from the back of a pickup, said: ''I think he has made his mistakes, but he is trying. If we don't fight them there, we are going to be fighting them over here.''
 Dale Burkhart, another Bush supporter, urged the president to step up the effort to get his message across. ''Everybody has forgotten why we got hit,'' Mr. Burkhart said. ''Americans need to be continually reminded because of the way we live. We are blessed, and we take it for granted.''
 But independents and Democrats repeatedly characterized Mr. Bush's recent spree of speeches and actions on terrorism as a cynical effort to thrust the issue into the Congressional campaign season.
 ''I think it is a calculated attempt on the part of the president and Karl Rove to push terrorism before the election,'' said Patrick Bassett, a Democrat and software developer from Golden who was visiting a mall in Aurora. ''All these issues could have been brought up at an earlier time.''
 Robin Dodich, a retired teacher and self-described independent who was part of a small group of antiwar protesters along the Aurora parade route, called Mr. Bush's recent actions disgusting.
 ''Republicans believe their party is in trouble and they want to help their campaigns,'' Ms. Dodich said. ''It is almost like Bush is frantic.''

This is the third article in a series looking at how the 2006 campaign plays out in Colorado's Seventh Congressional District, which is evenly balanced among Democrats, Republicans and independents. Future articles will include an assessment of what candidates and voters are saying in the homestretch to Election Day.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Residents of Arvada, Colo., in a swing Congressional district, attended services led Sunday by the Rev. George Morrison at Faith Bible Chapel. Cheerleaders marched Saturday at the harvest festival parade.
''We may need a change,'' said Shannon Abote, who said she was a lifelong Republican.
Peter Strecker, with his wife, Robin, and baby, said terrorism can seem remote to people in the area.
 Blaine Engdahl said he still supported the president, saying he had learned from his mistakes. (Photographs by Carmel Zucker for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); MOUNTAINS (60%); MILITARY COURTS (60%) Surveys and Series; Elections; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Elections; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Carl Hulse; Rick O'Donnell; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (94%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Colorado; Iraq; Colorado; United States; Arvada (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



250 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Osama's Spin Lessons

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY

 BODY:
Somewhere, Osama bin Laden must be smiling. Or at least he will be whenever his couriers deliver the next batch of press clippings.
 Once again he has beaten America at an American game: public relations. He may be sitting powerlessly in a cave, but his image is as scary as ever. He doesn't even have to cut a new video. He released an old one last week, the equivalent of a fading musician putting out a greatest-hits album, only this one's getting played every hour.
Last night, President Bush paid him homage by quoting his warning that America will face ''defeat and disgrace forever'' it if loses in Iraq. Bush himself called the war on terror a ''struggle for civilization,'' and said it was essential to ''maintain the way of life enjoyed by free nations.'' 
 It was just the kind of apocalyptic language favored by bin Laden, except that, for all his delusions, he might realize that American civilization is not really in jeopardy. Americans can try to copy him, but they don't understand his rhetorical technique.
 They continually misinterpret his equine theory of international relations: ''When people see a strong horse and a weak horse, by nature, they will like the strong horse.'' This is supposedly a reason America was attacked on Sept. 11 -- it was perceived as weak for failing to respond to Al Qaeda's earlier attacks -- and why it can't leave Iraq. 
 If we falter in Iraq, Vice President Dick Cheney explained to Tim Russert on Sunday, the war on terror will falter because people will say: ''My gosh, the United States hasn't got the stomach for the fight. Bin Laden's right, Al Qaeda's right, the United States has lost its will and will not complete the mission.'' 
 But bin Laden knows something else the Bush administration hasn't figured out: You don't actually have to be the strong horse. You just have to look stronger. You can be weak, you can be pummeled in a fight, but as long as your opponent looks more scared than you, you can save face by simply declaring victory. 
 As an act of war, the attack on Sept. 11 was a blunder by Al Qaeda, and not merely because of the counterattack that destroyed Al Qaeda's training camps and ousted the Taliban. It also alienated former jihadist allies in the Arab world, and caused a rift within Al Qaeda. 
 One of its senior members, Abu al-Walid al-Masri, broke with bin Laden and accused him of having an ''extreme infatuation'' with international publicity. The attack, as Fawaz Gerges notes in Foreign Policy magazine, demonstrated that ''bin Laden was prepared to sacrifice Afghanistan and Mullah Omar at the altar of his public relations campaign.''
 But at least bin Laden knew his P.R. Al Qaeda wasn't a serious military threat to America, but it could play one on television. As Al Qaeda's losses mounted and America recovered from the attack, bin Laden and his cohorts didn't let the facts get in the way of their campaign to promote fear (and themselves). They hid in caves and proclaimed themselves champions. 
 America, meanwhile, accentuated the negative. Instead of declaring victory against terrorists after routing the Taliban and sending bin Laden into hiding, it invaded Iraq, reinvigorating Al Qaeda with a new tool for recruiting. Instead of putting the terrorist risk in perspective, Bush (with the full cooperation of Democrats and the press) set an impossible standard for making America safe.
 ''We're on the offense against the terrorists on every battlefront,'' Bush said last week, ''and we'll accept nothing less than complete victory.''
 When you define victory that way, when you treat one attack from a disorganized band of fanatics as a menace to civilization, you've doomed yourself to defeat and caused more damage than they could. You can't completely stop terrorism, but you can scare people into giving up liberties, wasting huge sums of money and sacrificing more lives than would be lost in a terrorist attack.
 Take it from bin Laden, who bragged in 2004 that it was ''easy to provoke and bait this administration.'' 
 ''All that we have to do,'' he said, ''is to send two mujahedeen to the farthest point east to raise a piece of cloth on which is written Al Qaeda, in order to make the generals race there to cause America to suffer human, economic and political losses.'' And then Al Qaeda, no matter what losses it has suffered, will come off once again looking like the strong horse. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (77%); HIJACKING (74%); TALIBAN (74%); HORSES (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; World Trade Center (NYC); Pentagon Building; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Public Opinion

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (57%); JOHN F TIERNEY (54%); TIM RUSSERT (50%) Osama Bin Laden; John Tierney; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%) New York City; Washington (DC); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2006



251 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Distractions And Bargains Bought in Bulk

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
WE were in the vicinity of the two-gallon tubs of mayonnaise when my wife committed warehouse club heresy. ''Sometimes I wonder how much of this stuff is actually a good deal,'' she said.
 With some items, neither of us had any doubt. Our local Costco sells an enormous hunk of Vermont cheddar cheese for just a little more than the supermarket charges for a modest piece of the same brand. Canned tomatoes are also a great deal, and if you buy diapers at Costco for a few years, you'll save enough money to buy an iMac.
 But with a lot of the other things stacked around the store, the truth was that we had no idea how good the prices were. Costco and its Wal-Mart-owned rival, Sam's Club, have more than 90 million members across the country, and I suspect a lot of them are like us. They know a few products are clearly bargains, and they assume the best about everything else. Under the high ceilings and bright lights of a warehouse, surrounded by cans of Spam and bags of rice piled to the ceiling, everything looks as if it must be a good deal. 
 After my wife's bolt of skepticism, I set out to see how well these assumptions held up, starting with razor blades, which have always seemed to be one of life's most annoyingly expensive products. At Costco, a package of 16 Gillette M3 Power cartridges cost $32.99, or a little more than $2 a blade. 
 Indeed, no drugstore or supermarket came close to matching that price. But a quick Web search turned up a site -- RazorsDirect.com -- selling a package of 16 for $31.99 and packages of 48 for less than $2 a cartridge, all with free shipping. 
 Unlike Costco, Razors Direct doesn't charge $50 a year for the privilege of shopping there. So much for buying razors at Costco.
 A COUPLE of decades ago, most Americans had fairly limited shopping options for everyday items -- often just a small store in the neighborhood and a supermarket a little farther away. Price mattered, but it mainly determined whether people would buy an item, rather than where they would buy it. If one kind of razor was too expensive, people typically traded down to another.
 Today, shoppers can compare prices at Target, Wal-Mart, warehouse clubs, drugstores the size of supermarkets and, of course, the Internet. In other realms, Americans can choose among dozens of different types of telephone plans, credit cards, car leases and mortgages. This explosion of choices has made many industries more competitive, often driving down prices. It has moved the economy closer to a state of ''perfect information,'' as economists would say.
 But it has also pushed retailers to make nearly everything they sell appear to be a bargain, be it bulk goods at a warehouse club or ''marked down'' items on the Internet. With each new choice that shoppers make, a store has a chance to persuade them that they are getting a deal, and because people like to think of themselves as savvy shoppers, they are all too eager to fall for the pitch. As a result, a sizable portion of the retail economy has come to be built on bargains that aren't really bargains.
 This is hardly what the theory of perfect information -- not to mention common sense -- would have predicted. ''It's really easy to compare prices now,'' says Ulrike M. Malmendier of the University of California, Berkeley, part of a generation of young economists studying quirks in human behavior. ''So all the predictions are that there is going to be more price sensitivity. Yet we often find the opposite.''
 Ms. Malmendier has found an especially delicious example at eBay, the subject of a lot of academic interest right now. Besides being an auction site, eBay allows retailers to sell new goods on the site for a fixed price. They list the item with its price, and shoppers can click a ''buy it now'' button to purchase it just as they would on a more traditional site like Amazon. When the same item is available in the ''buy it now'' category and in an auction, it becomes possible to compare the prices, which is exactly what Ms. Malmendier and her co-author, Hanh Lee, did.
 They looked at Cashflow 101, a board game created by Robert T. Kiyosaki, the author of the best-selling book ''Rich Dad Poor Dad,'' to teach, of all things, financial literacy. In the ''buy it now'' category, brand-new versions of the game typically sold for around $140, including shipping. 
 Just as you might expect, people started off bidding less than $140 in the auctions. But as time went on -- and they received provocative e-mail messages from eBay announcing ''You have been outbid!'' -- many raised their offers. Eventually, about two of every three auction buyers paid more than $140, even though many of them were buying used versions of the game.
 Experienced eBay shoppers, who would seem like the sophisticated ones, were, in fact, the most likely to overbid. Sellers who mentioned that the manufacturer charged $195 for the game received higher bids than sellers who didn't.
 The common thread in these illusory bargains is distraction. On eBay, the distraction is the competition, which causes bidders to put winning ahead of saving money. With credit cards and mortgages, teaser rates make borrowers overlook what the interest rate will be in six months, as well as all the fees.
 ''What psychology often shows,'' said Ravi Dhar, director of the Yale Center for Customer Insights, ''is that people systematically focus on one set of information.'' 
 As for Costco, the very size of the product is the distraction. In the end, I discovered that razor blades were fairly unusual; some other drugstore products were also overpriced, but most items at Costco were cheaper, pound for pound, than they were elsewhere. Still, there's a larger truth that the razors point to: warehouse clubs are more expensive than they seem, thanks to hidden costs like the annual membership charge. 
 Research has found that people also eat more of a food item bought in bulk, simply because it's sitting around the kitchen, which hardly seems like a good way to save money. Then there are the extra shopping trips that Costco customers must make, because many items aren't sold there. Add it all up, and a good number of the warehouse clubs' 90 million members probably are not well served by them.
 That said, some people may simply enjoy wandering around an enormous warehouse and marveling at the scale of everything, the same way that eBay bidders love the thrill of an auction. There is nothing wrong with that. Let's just call it what it is: not bargain hunting, but entertainment.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Paul Sakuma/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (91%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (76%); TELEPHONE RATES (71%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (66%) Retail Stores and Trade; Consumer Behavior

COMPANY: COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (95%); SAM'S CLUB (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Costco Wholesale Corp; Wal-Mart Stores Inc; Sam's Club (Warehouse Stores)

TICKER: COST (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (95%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



252 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Head Is Mostly Upbeat but Also Sees Economic Clouds 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: VIENNA, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
The head of the International Monetary Fund predicted a ''continued smooth ride'' for the global economy on Tuesday, but cautioned that there were signs of potential trouble after several years of brisk growth. 
 ''After more than three years of strong growth, the global economy today is at an important juncture,'' the managing director of the I.M.F., Rodrigo de Rato, told an OPEC conference here. ''Our base forecast is for a continued smooth ride for the global economy -- but there are more clouds on the horizon today than we saw a year ago.''
Mr. de Rato spoke as the I.M.F. warned in its semiannual Global Financial Stability Report that the risks of a global slowdown had risen because of higher interest rates, surging oil prices and an apparent cooling in the housing market that could slow the American economy. ''Growth in the United States, while still strong, is slowing in the face of headwinds from a cooling housing market and rising fuel costs,'' Mr. de Rato said.
 ''However, here in Europe, growth has gained momentum, while in Japan the expansion has continued to be supported well by domestic demand,'' he added. ''Moreover, emerging Asia has continued to grow strongly, with China and India leading the pack. In Latin America, the pace of activity has picked up, while oil exporters in the Middle East and low-income countries in Africa have also maintained impressive growth rates.''
 While the I.M.F. said its general outlook on the world economy remained positive, the report said, ''there are risks to the global economic outlook that have tilted to the downside.''
 Should global growth falter, international markets could undergo a more severe correction than the one they experienced in May and June, when emerging markets in particular were hit hard, it added.
 The report on Tuesday gave a general indication of the I.M.F.'s outlook on the global economy two days before it releases the second part of its closely watched World Economic Outlook, which includes specific economic forecasts for the world economy and regional economies.
 Despite its warnings, the I.M.F. said it saw ''a continuation of favorable developments in both growth and inflation.''
 ''Under this scenario, corporate earnings growth would remain healthy and default rates low.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rodrigo de Rato, head of the I.M.F., said that growth in the United States was strong, but slowing with the cooling of the housing market. (Photo by Ronald Zak/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (57%) International Monetary Fund; European Union

PERSON: Rodrigo De Rato

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (72%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); AFRICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); AUSTRIA (72%) Europe; Japan; China; India; Latin America; Middle East ; Africa

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



253 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit in July Hit a Record $68 Billion

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit widened sharply in July to a record $68 billion, as oil import prices and demand for foreign goods and services rose to new highs, a government report released Tuesday showed. 
 The trade gap swelled 5 percent from June for the biggest month-to-month gain in nearly a year, surprising Wall Street analysts who had expected surging oil prices to widen the deficit only slightly in July.
The trade shortfall is expected to weigh on economic output in the third quarter. Imports replace products that could have been made in the United States, so a widening deficit is a drag on growth.
 However, some economists saw a silver lining because oil prices have fallen about 20 percent since setting a record above $78 a barrel in July. Light crude for October delivery was trading around $65 a barrel on Tuesday.
 Oil prices have fallen in the last week as tensions over Iran's nuclear program have eased somewhat and the summer driving season has ended in the United States. The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries also agreed on Monday to keep pumping at the high level of 28 million barrels a day, but left the door open to cut production later this year.
 The Commerce Department report showed that United States exports dropped for the first time in four months. But they were still the second-highest ever, and exports of consumer goods and auto products set a record.
 The United States imported a record $14 billion worth of oil and other products from OPEC in July. The total value of crude oil imports was a record $20.8 billion, even as volume declined, the Commerce Department said.
 Imports of industrial goods and materials, capital goods and consumer goods also set records in July, reflecting continued strength in the United States economy. Imports from both China and the European Union set records. 
 ''If you look at the U.S. demand for foreign goods, you don't get the impression conditions are deteriorating sharply,'' Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors, said of the economy.
 Chain store sales last week rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier, according to two private surveys.

 Balance: -$ 68.04

Graph tracks Imports, Exports and the Trade Deficit. (Source by Commerce Department)

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Port of New Orleans. Surging imports caused the July trade gap to widen 5 percent from June. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)Graph: ''Balance of Trade''The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.July 2006Imports: $188.01 billionExports: 119.97

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); IMPORT PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Records and Achievements; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Commerce Department; European Union; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (85%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Europe; China

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



254 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; HORSE RACING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1812 words

HEADLINE: Evidence Debated as Former Rider Fights Charges in Track Weight Case

BYLINE: By BILL FINLEY

 BODY:
In the 1960's and 70's, Braulio Baeza was as big a star as there was in horse racing. A Panamanian jockey with an expressionless face, he was all substance and little style. Baeza won a Kentucky Derby, two Saratoga riding titles and two Eclipse Awards as the nation's top jockey, and he was enshrined in the sport's Hall of Fame. 
 Today, he has no job, little money and a tarnished reputation.
Baeza's troubles began on Dec. 15, 2004, when the New York attorney general's organized crime task force started gathering records at Aqueduct racetrack, where he was the assistant clerk of scales. 
 The attorney general's office concluded that Baeza and the head clerk of scales, Mario Sclafani, were allowing some jockeys to ride at heavier weights than the ones reported to the betting public. Last September, Baeza and Sclafani were indicted, then fired. Although the indictment does not state that Baeza and Sclafani profited financially from their actions, they face up to seven years in prison if convicted. 
 ''This has been devastating,'' Baeza, 66, said. ''It's hard for me to say how I feel. Racing is my whole life. Now what do I have?'' 
 It has been a punishing 20 months for Baeza, the man in the middle of a case that also involves Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, who is running for governor in New York; a grand juror who has challenged the attorney general's office; and evidence that Baeza and his supporters say is flawed.
 In addition, some argue that even if the case against Baeza and Sclafani is relatively airtight, it is hardly worth prosecuting two men whose biggest crime might have been to feel pity for jockeys who were struggling to meet the demanding weight standards used in horse racing.
 Those standards were essentially put in place more than a century ago and have not been altered much. In racing, weights are sometimes used to help equalize a horse race, with inferior horses carrying less weight than superior ones. At the same time, those weight standards have long been a controversial subject within the sport. Jockeys have pressed for a relaxation of the weight limits, but others argue that no matter what the standards -- say, 130 pounds for a jockey instead of 115 or 116 -- there will always be riders who starve themselves to meet them. 
 For now, the weight standards remain where they are, and at the heart of the case against Baeza. And the case has attracted critics.
 ''This is nothing more than a huge misunderstanding and an overzealous prosecutor,'' said the jockey Richard Migliore, who was not among those cited for riding over their listed weights.
 Deanna Buckman, who sat on the grand jury that indicted Baeza and Sclafani, wrote to John Dormin, the assistant deputy attorney general who is prosecuting the case, to say she was ''extremely saddened by the lack of integrity in our judicial system.''
 When contacted by The New York Times, Buckman said she was under a judge's order not to discuss the case. But in an interview with The Albany Times-Union earlier this year, she said: ''Talk about wasting taxpayer money. I hate to guess on what was spent putting this all together.
 ''They've got two little peons,'' she added. 
 Baeza came to the United States in 1960 and quickly became a top rider. He won the 1961 Belmont Stakes aboard Sherluck and the 1963 Kentucky Derby on Chateaugay, and he was aboard Foolish Pleasure when he won the ill-fated match race in 1975 in which Ruffian broke down and had to be euthanized. 
 The next year, Baeza, who had grown tired of the unending battles to make weight, retired at the age of 36 with 3,140 career victories. He switched to training horses, but found that to be a struggle. In 1995, he took a job with the New York Racing Association. 
 As the assistant clerk of scales, he and Sclafini were responsible for weighing jockeys before and after races. If a rider is heavier than the assigned weight before a race, the betting public is informed. Often, jockeys are a pound or two over -- which can influence the outcome of the race. In New York, jockeys who are five pounds or more overweight must be taken off the horse.
 Trainers and owners are unlikely to employ jockeys who cannot regularly make assigned weights, and many clerks of scales are former riders who might sympathize with jockeys. 
 In 2004, Peter Karches, who was then the co-chairman of NYRA, heard that some New York jockeys were riding over their reported weights. 
 At the time, NYRA had been charged with ignoring a money-laundering and tax-evasion scheme perpetrated by some mutuel clerks, and as a result it was running its three tracks -- Saratoga, Belmont and Aqueduct -- under a deferred-prosecution agreement. Karches, who died in April, was eager to cast NYRA as a group that would no longer tolerate wrongdoing, and he took his concerns to investigators. 
 After the attorney general's office was notified, investigators set up a video surveillance system at the three NYRA tracks for more than six months to record the moments before and after each race when the jockeys stepped on the scales. 
 Sclafani and Baeza were indicted on 291 counts of conspiracy, tampering with a sports contest, falsifying business records and grand larceny. The attorney general's office said the two men had allowed jockeys to ride heavier than their assigned weights in 67 races without notifying the public. 
 ''This was a nearly 300-count indictment in which the grand jury indicted racing officials with conspiracy and scheme to defraud both horse owners and bettors,'' said Paul Larrabee, a spokesman for Spitzer. ''What Mr. Spitzer has done since he came into office was to seek to bring reform and a level playing field to some of the state's largest institutions, whether it be on Wall Street or in the grandstand at a racetrack.''
 Jockeys Robby Albarado, Heberto Castillo Jr., Jose Santos, Ariel Smith and Cornelio Velasquez were named in the indictment for riding from 7 to 15 pounds over their assigned weights, but none of them were charged. Along with Baeza and Sclafani, all five riders have denied wrongdoing. 
 ''This is insane, absolutely insane,'' Santos said. ''Nothing happened. Believe me, they did their jobs. Whenever I was overweight, it was announced.'' 
 The indictment states that Santos rode over his announced weight of 116 pounds in a race on Aug. 30, 2004, at Saratoga. Because the indictment contends that the riders involved were 7 to 15 pounds overweight in each of the races cited, Santos would presumably have weighed in at least 123 pounds for the race. But he rode two days earlier at Monmouth Park in New Jersey at a listed weight of 116 pounds. If the Monmouth weight was accurate, Santos would have gained at least seven pounds in two days. 
 In another instance, the indictment states that Castillo rode over his reported weight of 118 pounds in a July 11, 2004, race at Belmont; that meant that he had to weigh at least 125 pounds. But on the previous day, he had ridden at 115 pounds at Delaware Park. If the Delaware Park weight is correct, Castillo put on 10 pounds in a day.
 Dr. Richard Kreider, the director of the Exercise and Sports Nutrition Lab at Baylor University, said that although it may be difficult to alter weight so drastically in such a short time, it is not impossible.
 ''Jockeys dehydrate themselves so much with saunas and things,'' he said. ''One liter of fluid is 2.2 pounds, so if you dehydrate yourself by four or five liters and you sweat two to three liters, that is six, eight pounds right there. That's what they end up doing, and they starve themselves, much like a wrestler does. It's not unusualfor a wrestler to drop 15, 20 pounds before a match, and then the weight comes right back. You're not talking about fat; you're talking about someone losing fluids.'' 
 The indictment also cites jockeys for riding over their reported weights in some races on a particular day but not in others.
 ''In the indictment, there seem to be some inconsistencies,'' said Charles Hayward, the president and chief executive of NYRA ''They seem to be asserting that a jockey rode at as much as 15 pounds overweight in one race on the card, and in other races they rode in on the same card they don't cite anything. Then you have jockeys who shipped in and out of town and didn't have any weight problems elsewhere.'' 
 Larrabee confirmed that the evidence includes videotapes of jockeys being weighed before and after races, which has raised the question of whether investigators could have been confused by the fact that jockeys usually weigh more after a race than they do before.
 In general, jockeys are required to be weighed before a race while wearing their undergarments, pants, boots and silks, and while carrying their saddles. If jockeys weigh less than the weight assigned to their horses, lead is added to the saddles to make up the difference.
 During the period in which the investigation took place, the weights recorded before a race did not include safety items like flak jackets, helmets and goggles, although NYRA has since added flak jackets to the prerace weigh-in. In addition, jockeys are allowed to drink fluids like Gatorade after being weighed. 
 Jockeys are weighed again after the race, but the primary reason is to ensure that no riders are lighter than their assigned weights, which could occur if a jockey somehow discarded lead from the saddle. Far more likely is that jockeys, clad in safety equipment and with mud and dirt on their silks, will be pounds heavier after a race.
 ''With the safety equipment alone, you are talking about four and a half to five and a half pounds,'' Migliore said. ''Then you can pick up a pound and a half of mud. You look at that and it doesn't seem out of line that some guy was seven pounds over his weight after a race.''
 Asked whether investigators could have been confused by the dynamics of prerace and postrace weigh-ins, Larrabee said no.
 ''If you read the indictment, you will note that it says the jockeys stepped onto the scales prior to the race,'' he said. ''There is no inference to their weights postrace. Those weights are inconsequential because any overweights have to be made public before a race. To not do so is where the problem arises. Any characterization of our investigators being unfair or unaware of the practices at the track is a fabrication.'' 
 Whether mistakes were made in the investigation may not be known until Baeza and Sclafani have their day in court. Whether it is worth prosecuting a criminal case in which no money is said to have changed hands will continue to be debated. But guilty or not, Baeza is unemployed and unwelcomed in the industry in which he made his living from age 15, when he rode his first race at Hipodromo Juan Franco, outside Panama City. 
 ''I have never been off work,'' he said. ''You don't know what to do.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Braulio Baeza and Chateaugay in the winner's circle at Churchill Downs after the Kentucky Derby in 1963. Baeza won 3,140 races in his career. (Photo by Associated Press)
Baeza at the gates to Saratoga Race Course, left, and weighing a jockey at Belmont in 2004. Baeza lost his job as a scales clerk last year after a state investigation implicated him in a plan to misreport jockeys' weights before races. Baeza faces up to seven years in prison if convicted. (Photos by Left, Stewart Cairns for The New York Times
 Barton Silverman/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (92%); INDICTMENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); GRAND JURY (89%); HORSES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); ORGANIZED CRIME (75%); GOVERNORS (72%); JURY TRIALS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); STARVATION (68%); ETHICS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%) Horse Racing; Jockeys, Drivers and Trainers; Kentucky Derby; Aqueduct Race Track; Ethics; Weight; Sentences (Criminal)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (55%) Bill Finley; Braulio Baeza

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



255 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Flush With Jobs, Wyoming Woos Rust Belt Labor 

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Katie Kelley contributed reporting from Denver.

DATELINE: GILLETTE, Wyo., Sept. 6 

 BODY:
Houston Mellentine, 10, held up the rattlesnake tail he kept in a box. ''Killed it right over there,'' he said, pointing to the edge of his family's dirt front yard.
 His mother, Melissa, sat in a folding chair as the sun set one recent evening, eyeing the snake's tail in her son's hand. ''They don't have rattlesnakes in Michigan,'' she said somewhat longingly, at least not in her old front yard.
But then, Michigan has few of the types of jobs that brought the Mellentines here. 
 Labor-starved Wyoming, with its energy boom in coal, oil and natural gas, is vigorously courting the workers of the Rust Belt -- in particular, those in Michigan's struggling auto industry. And the workers are responding, and adjusting to a very different life in the West. 
 Wyoming economic development officials and company representatives are planning their third recruiting trip this year, visiting job fairs next month in Flint, Lansing and Grand Rapids. A billboard depicting a lush Wyoming will go up on the highway outside Flint later this month and be seen by an estimated 65,000 people a day.
 ''Michigan has been very good for us,'' said Ruth Benson, the director of the Campbell County Economic Development Corporation, who has twice led recruiting expeditions to depressed cities in Michigan. 
 So far, about 1,500 Michigan residents have signed up to receive job postings through the Wyoming work force Web site, and at least several hundred, employers and recruiters say, have moved to the state.
 Mrs. Mellentine's husband, Joe, is one of those who heard the call. Mr. Mellentine, 35, a former ironworker and landscaper from Chesaning, just outside Flint, moved here in March after hearing about Wyoming at a job fair. ''I came to get a piece of the American pie,'' said Mr. Mellentine, who works for a company that prepares sites for natural gas drilling.
 Mrs. Mellentine and their two sons joined him in July, and he has since talked three of his childhood friends in Michigan into heading West as well.
 They are all still very much adjusting to the change. But many former Michigan residents say their Wyoming experience -- voting for change with their feet, trading the comfortable and familiar for a boomtown life more than 1,000 miles from home -- has reaffirmed their faith that good things can still happen with a little gumption.
 ''A lot of people are afraid to take a chance,'' said Eric Chapdelaine, 33, who was lured here by Mr. Mellentine and is now driving a cargo truck to coal mines and drilling sites. ''But you've got to make it happen -- or sit back and let it happen.''
 The local police are also aware of the Michigan labor pool. Chief Richard Adriaens of the Gillette police was hired in 2004 from a suburb near Detroit. Since then, he has returned and found three more fellow Michiganders to add to the town's 48-officer roster, with another recruiting swing planned for later this year.
 Michigan is attractive, Chief Adriaens said, because the police training is excellent, but the job market is not. ''We've tried some other areas that had depressed economies, but they weren't the same,'' he said.
 Officials in Michigan, where the unemployment rate was about 7 percent in July, said they were unconcerned about the Wyoming employment campaign, mostly because it had involved only a small fraction of the state's workers and had not signaled a wholesale migration. The state also has some experience with this situation: in the early 1980's, thousands of laid-off auto workers moved to Texas during the oil boom there.
 ''It's a good thing that people that have salable skills use them, even when we have to lose them,'' said Michael Shore, a spokesman for the Michigan Economic Development Corporation.
 By the standards of the nation's past great labor migrations -- the industrial revolution in the late 1800's that filled urban factories with former farmers, the Dust Bowl diaspora to California in the 1930's, the tide of blacks from the South in World War II seeking work in northern factories -- what is happening here is an aberration, historians and geographers say. 
 Economic trends have mostly gone the other way since World War II, they say, anchoring blue-collar life. Families that require two incomes to make ends meet are less able to leave, even when one income is lost. A college education increases knowledge of options that may exist elsewhere, but many blue-collar workers do not have a degree.
 ''People with high education and skills are the first to leave a declining area,'' said Mark E. Reisinger, an assistant professor of geography at the State University of New York at Binghamton who studies labor mobility. ''People who never left home to go to school are more tied to place.''
 Wyoming recruiters say there is another element to their admiration for Michigan. Not only are the people there akin to Wyomingites in the ways and wiles of work, but they also have an inner toughness, they say, that can only come from surviving harsh northern winters. 
 The state tried a job campaign in the South last fall after Hurricane Katrina, hoping to draw displaced oil industry workers. But the effort largely flopped when people who were used to working on the balmy Gulf Coast got wind of what life can be like in Wyoming in January.
 ''People keep talking about the winters, but I'm not scared,'' said Tami Studer, who moved to Casper this summer from Lansing with her husband, Philip, who now works nights for a company that makes equipment for natural gas drilling. One conversation at the local Wal-Mart, though, did give her pause, she said. A boy was talking about the thermometer hitting 43 below.
 The other word often mentioned by the newly arrived is ''empty.'' Wyoming has just about 500,000 people spread across 97,000 square miles. Michigan has nearly 10 million people in 57,000 square miles.
 ''I thought I was a country girl until I came here,'' Mrs. Mellentine said. ''But I love it.''
 What happens down the road in Wyoming -- whether transplanted lives will take root or last just a season or two -- will probably depend on people like Josh Dagen.
 Mr. Dagen is 19 and three months out of Byron High School in Michigan. He arrived here in late July, had a job the next day driving a dump truck at a coal mine and now makes about $1,000 a week, including overtime, he said.
 When asked if he planned to stay in Wyoming, he said, ''I'm not sure yet.''
 ''But if things go well,'' he added, ''I might stay, because nothing is going to happen in Michigan in the next 10 years at least, and there's money out here to be made.''
 Mr. Dagen said he was encouraging his parents to move. 
 ''We're thinking about it,'' his mother, Kristine, said in a telephone interview. ''Seems like every other person I talk to knows somebody who's going out there, or has gone out there, or is talking about it.''
 But Harley Mellentine, Houston's 12-year-old brother, is not so sure that Wyoming will be a perfect fit for him.
 ''Michigan will always be home,'' he said firmly, sitting outside the family house. ''No matter how long we stay here, Michigan is always going to be home to me.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: This recruitment billboard will go up outside Flint, Mich., before Wyoming officials and employers participate in a job fair there next month.
 Joe Mellentine, a former ironworker and landscaper from Michigan, moved his family to Wyoming this year. His son Harley, 12, is not so sure about the change. ''Michigan will always be home,'' he said. (Photographs by Bobby Model for The New York Times)(pg. A19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); LAYOFFS (75%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); COAL MINING (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); RELOCATIONS (69%) Labor; Automobiles; Relocation of Personnel; Economic Conditions and Trends; Police; Energy and Power; Gas (Fuel); Labor; Life Styles; Layoffs and Job Reductions

PERSON: Joe Mellentine; Kirk Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: LANSING, MI, USA (79%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (72%) MICHIGAN, USA (99%); WYOMING, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Wyoming; Michigan; Gillette (Wyo); Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



256 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM LONDON; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Even Safety Czar Thinks British Are Too Risk-Averse

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: LONDON, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
One of the received wisdoms about British life is that it is full of picayune rules that are meant to prevent injuries and accidents but are in fact patently ridiculous. Antigovernment newspapers delight in promoting the notion of a country ruled by what they call ''political correctness gone mad,'' describing how, for example, a fire department in Devon removed its traditional firemen's pole last year, apparently on the grounds that it is safer to use the stairs. 
 So it came as a surprise when Bill Callaghan, who as head of the country's Health and Safety Commission is supposedly responsible for such decisions, appeared on television last month to urge Britons to ''get a life.'' Even more surprisingly, perhaps, he did so while engaging in a relatively high-risk activity: sailing (although he was wearing a life preserver). 
But to Britons who have accepted the notion that no one is allowed to do anything fun anymore, and that it is the government's fault, Mr. Callaghan's message was met with some skepticism. Indeed, as he would be the first to admit, his agency has a major public-relations problem. ''I was getting pretty angry with all the stories which mentioned Health and Safety -- capital H, capital S -- as stopping people from doing ordinary, worthwhile things,'' he said in a recent interview. 
 His irritation spurred him to action and to his new campaign to put a reasonable human face on the Health and Safety Commission, whose job is to recommend and oversee Britain's safety regulations. 
 ''Our mission is to improve people's health and safety at work, and if people think it's all about petty bureaucratic rules, then we're not being successful,'' he said. ''People say, 'We can't do this because Health and Safety won't let us.' '' 
 Safety at work is no laughing matter, Mr. Callaghan, formerly the chief economist at the Trades Union Congress, said indignantly. Last year, he noted, 220 people were killed on the job. In the late 1960's -- before the passage of the landmark Health and Safety at Work Act of 1974, which among other things established his agency and its sister, the Health and Safety Executive -- the annual figure was about 1,200 deaths. 
 Britain has indeed become more risk-averse in recent years, largely because of a pervasive public fear of American-style litigation. But as Mr. Callaghan points out, payouts in liability cases in Britain are far lower than they are in the United States -- about one-third as much per capita -- and most lawsuits are dismissed before ever getting to trial. 
 By the same token, he said, he believes that many of the decisions made in the name of health and safety in Britain are indeed asinine. These include schools requiring children to wear protective goggles when playing with nuts that have fallen from trees; schools banning bandages because of fears of latex allergies; and village fairs forbidding people to sell homemade cakes in case they contain contaminated eggs. 
 But the commission is blamed for them anyway. It set up a myth-busting page on its Web site explaining, for instance, that it was not involved in the decision last April to cancel a St. George's Day breakfast in Wiltshire, after local officials ruled that the volunteer cooks were not formally trained in egg preparation. 
 Some of the examples are more ambiguous, though, illustrating how hard it can be to walk the line between traditional stiff-upper-lipness and modern caution. In another example on the Web site, the agency rebuts an article claiming that it has forbidden window washers to use ladders, lest they fall off. Ian Greenwood, who is identified as the head of the agency's ''Falls From Height Program,'' is quoted as saying that ladders can indeed be used, as long as the ''task is low-risk and of short duration,'' and all safer, non-ladder alternatives have been ruled out. 
 Mr. Greenwood notes that 14 people died, and more than 1,000 were injured, after falling from ladders in 2004. He directs interested parties to the agency's sensible-ladder-use campaign, which includes the publication, ''Safe Use of Ladders and Stepladders.'' 
 Even if it is incorrect, the prevailing notion that every mishap ends with someone suing someone else has irrevocably changed Britons' mind-sets. Children who leave their coats and bags in special containers on field trips to the Science Museum in London, for example, are instructed by posted signs not to put anything on the lids, on account of Health and Safety rules. People buying cups of tea on British trains are ordered to carry them in paper bags for safety reasons -- whether they want to or not. 
 Sailing down the placid Thames a year ago as part of the celebration marking the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Trafalgar, the actor playing Lord Nelson was required to accessorize his vintage admiral's outfit with a contemporary life preserver, which tended to spoil the effect. 
 Nor are the Health and Safety Commission offices, at the end of Southwark Bridge in East London, immune to dispensing their own cautionary advice. Along with security passes, visitors are issued photocopied pamphlets offering instructions on how to identify the sound of the fire alarm (a ''continuous ringing of bells''); where to go if a fire does break out (convene at the location marked on the map on the back); and what to do if they feel sick or fall down (there is a first-aid room on the first floor; all injuries, ''no matter how minor,'' must be reported).
 The agency's new charm offensive has had mixed results. ''Nanny-in-Chief Confesses,'' The Daily Mail wrote approvingly about Mr. Callaghan's campaign, as if he were a Mao-era Chinese official engaging in ritual self-criticism. But in The Sunday Times of London, the columnist Roland White said, ''For him to attack the nanny state is a bit like the chairman of the Football Association complaining that high wages are ruining the game.''
 But Mr. Callaghan is on the skeptics' side, he says, having experienced annoyingly overzealous regulations himself. After his 17-year-old son's class traveled to upstate New York for a school ski trip, he said, students were forbidden to swim in the hotel pool with children from other schools, because their school's risk assessors had determined that it was too dangerous. 
 Mr. Callaghan was just as exasperated as you would be, if it were your child's school, and please don't blame the Health and Safety Commission. ''It's not something we would get involved in,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bill Callaghan of the Health and Safety Commission wants people to be safe and have fun. (Photo by Andrew Testa for The New York Times)
 Daniel Craig, second from right, arrived by boat to a press event last year. The new James Bond sported a life preserver. (Photo by Ian West/Press Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (66%); TRENDS (60%); LABOR UNIONS (60%) Social Conditions and Trends; Bureaucratic Red Tape; Labor; Industrial and Occupational Hazards ; Suits and Litigation; Law and Legislation ; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Accidents and Safety

PERSON: Bill Callaghan; Daniel Craig; Sarah Lyall

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) Great Britain; Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



257 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: China's Echo Chamber

 BODY:
China has long prided itself on its ability to master capitalism without indulging in the messy business of democracy. So Beijing got a twofer this week when it gave the state-run Xinhua news agency monopoly control over the lucrative financial news business and the power to administer broad censorship rules for all foreign news entering China. 
 Xinhua even got to announce the news of the new regulations. Not surprisingly, it didn't quote any critics.
Foreign agencies have long been barred from selling general news directly to the Chinese media. Some foreign companies have been quietly testing the limits as the number of Chinese media outlets has grown and Chinese editors have become more daring. Xinhua sent a clear warning to all sides, listing 10 categories of news covering politics, religion and national unity -- code for Taiwan --that could not be released into China.
 For the last decade financial news providers received better treatment and were allowed to sell their less politically sensitive information directly to banks and brokers. Now, under the new rules, they will have to distribute their wares through a designated agent of Xinhua -- a fine way to get Xinhua, which is eager to sell its own financial news, a guaranteed cut of that multimillion-dollar action. 
 All of this comes at a time when honest journalism is increasingly under attack. Last month, a Chinese court sentenced Zhao Yan, a New York Times researcher and journalist, to three years in prison on a bogus fraud charge. Soon after, another court sentenced Ching Cheong, a reporter for The Straits Times newspaper of Singapore, to five years in prison on trumped-up espionage charges. 
 Media organizations and governments, including the Bush administration, are right to protest these abuses as loudly and as often as they can. But the painful reality is that China's autocrats aren't usually moved by appeals to their better nature -- or for that matter warnings that keeping such a tight lid on a society undergoing rapid changes could eventually explode in their faces. 
 What they do understand is how rich they've gotten since joining the World Trade Organization. These new rules appear, at a minimum, to violate their W.T.O. pledges to liberalize access to financial information. Trade officials and foreign business leaders need to remind Beijing's leaders of those promises. And they need to warn them that a country that keeps a stranglehold on information is not a great place to invest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); SENTENCING (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CENSORSHIP (77%); WRITERS (74%); MONOPOLIZATION (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ESPIONAGE (64%); RELIGION (54%) News and News Media; Government Information Policies; Censorship; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%) World Trade Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (95%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



258 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Income Inequality: The Blame Game

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 David Brooks's Sept. 10 column, ''Investing in Human Futures,'' has surface appeal, especially as I am an educator and a passionate advocate for equal educational opportunity. How can one object to the idea that every child in every classroom have a college education?
But Mr. Brooks misses the elephant in the room as he riffs on the economic benefits to individuals and society. America -- the world -- needs plumbers, mechanics, shopkeepers, taxi drivers, firefighters, steelworkers, short-order cooks and checkout clerks. The ''promise'' of upward economic mobility is hollow, for in a functioning society and economy not everyone can be, wants to be or will be a doctor, a lawyer or an investment banker. 
 Real social progress requires fair compensation, health care and dignity for the millions of men and women who do all kinds of work. 
 Education, including college, should not be primarily high-priced vocational training. Education should prepare all children to lead meaningful, purposeful lives and equip each of us for thoughtful participation in civic life.
 Viewing education as an investment in economic capital is both philosophically wrongheaded and an empty promise to boot.

Steven J. Nelson
New York, Sept. 10, 2006

To the Editor:
 David Brooks, by diagnosing the cause of inequality as solely relating to skill deficits, comes up with an incomplete solution to the problem. 
 Globalization, declining unions and low minimum wages are widely agreed upon by economists as partly driving inequality upward. Mr. Brooks offers a set of ideas targeted at ''building human capital.'' But that's only one part of the problem. 
 The other is that workers at all skill levels lack the needed bargaining power to claim their fair share of the growth they're creating. 
 Also, only two of the 10 occupations predicted to add the most jobs over the next decade call for a college degree. Five of the top 10 call for short-term on-the-job training. 
 Workers in these jobs (retail sales, food prep), while surely better off with more skills, are unlikely to get ahead much unless we pay a lot more attention to the structural changes dismissed by Mr. Brooks.

Jared Bernstein
Senior Economist
Economic Policy Institute
Washington, Sept. 10, 2006

To the Editor:
 David Brooks has done a great service in his Sept. 10 column.
 Everyone should have a chance to graduate from college. Also, everyone should get training in character building and interpersonal skills to develop social mobility. 
 This can be helped by strengthening the family through tax aids; encouraging marriage; sowing positive attitudes about the future through starter investment gifts; providing preschool help to bring dysfunctional children up to par; and restructuring classroom education to fit individual needs. 
 That is a program that is hard to quarrel with and would bring many partisans wallowing pleasurably in the easy hatreds of the further left and right closer to consensus.

Bill Cannon
Evanston, Ill., Sept. 10, 2006

To the Editor:
 David Brooks (''The Populist Myths on Income Inequality,'' column, Sept. 7) says uneven income gains in society are justifiable because of workers' skill differences. Paul Krugman (''Whining Over Discontent,'' column, Sept. 8) says they are not because they arise from greed-infected economic policies. 
 Those of us who have studied the income gap realize that both are simplistic views. The subject is complex, with knotty conceptual, measurement and causality issues. 
 But one thing is certain, unfortunately: the debate has reached the ''victim-culprit'' level -- someone is to blame for growing inequality. 
 So if you're worried about too much inequality but concerned about the blame game, listen to Mr. Brooks and his ''let's get skills'' message. Mr. Krugman's message of ''let's get 'em'' will lead only to further social polarization.

Paul Ryscavage
Washington, Sept. 9, 2006

The writer is the author of a book about income inequality.

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman (column, Sept. 8) presents statistics to prove that the vast majority of Americans are going downhill economically, due largely to the Bush administration. He concludes: ''The usual suspects will come up with further efforts to confuse the issue. I say, bring 'em on.'' 
 Mr. Krugman need not look far. 
 David Brooks (column, Sept. 7) includes evidence that the middle class is doing nicely and that any minor slippage is due to nongovernment factors. There you have it: two Times columnists asserting exactly opposite views. This shows that statistics can be used to prove anything, a fact that has been known for a long time.

Jack B. Shapiro
Beachwood, Ohio, Sept. 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RETAILERS (75%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (72%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (72%); HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); RETAIL SALES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



259 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans Mayor Pleads For Patience in Meeting Goals

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
Another anniversary passed for Mayor C. Ray Nagin on Tuesday -- the first 100 days since his re-election -- with a plea from him for patience and ''perspective'' amid continued restiveness over the city's slow recovery from Hurricane Katrina and his role in it. 
 After his election victory May 20, Mr. Nagin pledged a strong focus on improving services in his first 100 days. Three of his electoral rivals, two of whom were regarded as policy heavyweights during the campaign, signed on as unpaid advisers. 
But two blocks from City Hall, street signs are still askew from last summer's storm, some traffic lights downtown are nothing but boxes of dangling wires and previously bustling storefronts in the Central Business District remain empty. 
 The message Tuesday was mixed, the mayor's advisers recited what they pictured as a litany of progress, even as Mr. Nagin repeatedly reminded the reporters at a news conference in City Hall of the size of the remaining recovery effort, ''a task of epic proportions,'' as he put it.
 ''No one has gone through what we've gone through,'' the mayor said. ''The road to recovery is long and arduous.''
 The mayor has frequently been out of town: fund-raising in Philadelphia, drumming up investment in New York and speechmaking in Indianapolis, among other trips. His absences have become a target of jokes and speculation.
 A radio talk-show host here calls him ''Ray Nay-gone,'' and a new Web site, wheresnagin.com, chronicles his travels side-by-side with a list of the city's yawning potholes.
 Reporting on the first three months of his second term, Mr. Nagin appeared unfazed by recent jibes, casually dismissing reports of a recall effort and mixing in breezy cheerleading with reminders of difficulties that remain. He was at pains, though, to reassure citizens that ''things are starting to pick up'' and that he was on the job.
 Mr. Nagin put forward a dual message Tuesday: while insisting that he is working hard, he also emphasized his trademark laissez-faire approach. It is not he but the ''citizens'' who are in the driver's seat in the city's recovery, the mayor said. 
 He said he did not plan to dictate the city's contours, or where citizens could live, even though many neighborhoods remain vulnerable and devastated by last year's storm. 
 ''We chose to go forward with a market-driven recovery effort,'' Mr. Nagin said. ''I believe citizens can make intelligent decisions about where to live. It is my position that government investment will follow citizen investment.'' 
 In practice, this means, as Mr. Nagin put it, that ''for the most part the redevelopment of our city is going to be done by our citizens.'' With more than half the city's pre-hurricane population still elsewhere, including many of its poorest citizens, early indications are that it is mostly those with some resources who have been able to move back.
 Against that hands-off stance, several advisers were left to chronicle small steps forward. Water pressure has improved to pre-storm levels, one said. Murders dropped in August. Most abandoned cars have been picked up. Sales taxes are at 77 percent of pre-storm levels. 
 The city has begun to cite homeowners who fail to comply with a one-year deadline for the cleanup and gutting of flooded houses. Universities are functioning, though enrollment is down. The city's bonds have ''junk'' status, but Moody's recently upgraded the city's debt rating to ''stable,'' officials said. 
 Still, the city has a ''huge cash flow need,'' said the mayor's economic adviser, Virginia Boulet. ''We've got to find billions of dollars to fund the recovery of New Orleans,'' she said. 
 The Federal Emergency Management Agency has paid only 247 of 806 claims by the city, though 634 have been approved, said Ms. Boulet, a former challenger of Mr. Nagin.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Nagin pleaded for patience. ''Everybody wants it to happen yesterday,'' he said, ''and it's just not going to happen yesterday.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor C. Ray Nagin speaking yesterday at a news conference. (Photo by Lee Celano/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); HURRICANES (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); WEB SITES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



260 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Rampage in Russian City Reflects Wider Ethnic Conflict

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: KONDOPOGA, Russia, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
Ethnic animosity runs so close to the surface of Russian society that almost anything can cause it to boil over. Here in this quiet mill town on the shore of Lake Onego 600 miles north of Moscow it was a bar fight outside a club called Seagull.
 Two ethnic Russians had died by the time the brawl ended, but the violence had only just begun. Their deaths -- at the hands of men from Azerbaijan and Chechnya -- provoked angry protests and on the night of Sept. 2, a rampage through the town, followed by sporadic acts of vandalism that have continued since.
 Mobs of young men -- fueled by anger and, officials said, alcohol -- burned the Seagull club, owned by a businessman originally from Azerbaijan. Then they attacked a series of precisely chosen targets: the homes and businesses of migrants from the Caucasus, mostly from Chechnya.
 They destroyed makeshift stalls in the town's open-air market, threw rocks through apartment windows, overturned and burned cars and kiosks, sacked two shops and burned a third store still under construction. 
 Dozens of the town's residents, Chechens mostly, but also ethnic Azerbaijanis and Georgians, fled that night. A group of 49 are now staying in a tourist camp outside the regional capital, Petrozavodsk, having escaped what is being widely called a pogrom, one that many here welcomed.
 ''They need to leave,'' said Denis Doronin, 19, who said he took part in the protests that led to the violence. ''They arrive from another country and they act like kings.''
 Russia has experienced a surge in racist violence in recent years, from isolated acts of assault and murder to last month's bombing of a Moscow market, which killed 12 people, most of them from Central Asia; three university students have been charged.
 But the events in Kondopoga have exposed a strain of ethnic strife that extends beyond the acts of neo-Nazis and skinheads, infecting society as a whole 15 years after the collapse of the Soviet Union discredited the enforced harmony of Russia's many nationalities.
 ''What happened was a shift from class struggle to ethnic struggle,'' said Viktor A. Shnirelman, an anthropologist with the Russian Academy of Sciences who is writing a book on racism in Russia. ''And it is very dangerous.''
 Ethnic tensions across Russia have been fueled by the latent racism common among many Russians, who freely use the pejorative ''blacks'' when describing people from the Caucasus, even in casual conversation. It also reflects a growing political opposition to migrant workers not unlike those movements in Europe and the United States and the indifferent or at times hostile responses from elected officials when violence erupts.
 The police in Kondopoga have arrested more than 100 people, including the three accused of murder in the bar fight. But Sergei L. Katanandov, governor of Karelia, the region near Finland that includes Kondopoga, did not blame the mobs for the violence, but rather the people who were singled out.
 ''The behavior of certain young men who moved here from the Caucasus and other territories in recent years -- not that many of them, but they were visible -- has been beyond the pale,'' he said in an interview with Izvestia on Thursday.
 It is not clear exactly how many people fled Kondopoga as the violence flared, but in addition to the 49 Chechens now staying at the camp near Petrozavodsk, many are believed to be staying with friends or relatives.
 They described Sept. 2 as a day and night of terror. Many hired taxis and left after speakers at the first large protest on Kondopoga's central street called for all migrants to leave within 24 hours. ''The police could not protect us,'' one of them, Adlan Taikhinneki, said in an interview at the camp.
 The Chechens in Kondopoga arrived in search of work and security. Hamzat Magamadov said he joined his sister, Tayissa, who had married a Russian and lived in Kondopoga, after the first war in Chechnya erupted in 1994. He had lived here since, mostly peacefully, he said, though strains existed beneath the surface.
 ''They held all these tensions inside,'' he said. ''After two wars, maybe they did not tell us everything, but it all came out.''
 Like migrants from across Russia's south and the former Soviet republics, they found work as traders, setting up shop in Russia's new market economy. Several of the traders had pooled their resources to build a new store, which is now a charred hulk.
 The economic success of migrants is at the source of many xenophobic statements, even ones by prominent officials. The country's leading nationalist politician, Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky, said migrants should be barred from owning markets or shops, hotels, restaurants and bars.
 ''Restaurants and retail outlets should be in the hands of local residents, first and foremost,'' he said in a radio interview after the violence in Kondopoga. ''Otherwise clashes with local residents are inevitable.''
 Such views resonate in Kondopoga, a town of 37,000 people with a large pulp-and-paper factory. The town and its surrounding district are overwhelmingly Russian, with a smattering of Karelians and Finns. According to the last census, in 2002, migrants from the Caucasus account for less than 1 percent of the population, but they have become the focus of residents' complaints about crime and, especially, economic inequity.
 Outside the apartment of a Chechen family -- its windows shattered by rocks -- an elderly woman who would give only her first name and patronymic, Valentina Ivanova, said that the brawl was a catalyst that unleashed widely held anger at the newcomers.
 ''They completely control the prices at the market,'' she said of the Chechens. ''They buy all the potatoes in Karelia. Potatoes are like our second bread. They buy them for 7 rubles and sell them for 15. They do not even work. They just speculate.''
 Meantime, she added, ''Ours are unemployed.''
 Kondopoga remains tense. Little of the damage has been repaired. The open-air market's stalls are half empty. The families who fled remain afraid to return. ''We were refugees from the war and are refugees again,'' Mr. Taikhinneki said. ''We are guilty just because we are Chechen.''
 And violence continues. Last Wednesday, arson damaged a sports center frequented by Chechen children and run by a Chechen coach. A day later fliers appeared urging residents to continue their protests. So have messages sent by cellphones, reportedly by members of a group called the Movement Against Illegal Migration, which participated in the protests after the fight.
 Several hundred people gathered again in Kondopoga on Friday, but no acts of violence were reported.
 Oksana N. Boganova is a Russian who works at one of the stores badly damaged in the rampage, the Azeri-owned Flamingo. It reopened a week after the attack, now with a guard on duty. She lamented what happened and expressed fear of what lay ahead.
 ''I do not know whom we are afraid of,'' she said, ''the non-Russians or the Russians.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A brawl this month at the Seagull club in Kondopoga, Russia, between Caucasus immigrants and ethnic Russians fueled a series of violent attacks against the immigrants. The club, left, was later set on fire, 100 people were arrested and many immigrants have fled. (Photo by Joseph Sywenkyj for The New York Times)Map of Russia highlighting Kondopoga

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); VANDALISM (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); MURDER (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); HATE CRIME (79%); RIOTS (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); REFUGEES (74%); BOMBINGS (71%); POLICE FORCES (69%); MIGRANT WORKERS (68%); IMMIGRATION (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%) Demonstrations and Riots; Murders and Attempted Murders; Geographic Profiles; Discrimination; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: Steven Lee Myers; Sergei L (Gov) Katanandov

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); CAUCASIAN STATES (93%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); GEORGIA (79%) Russia; Kondopoga (Russia); Karelia (Russia); Azerbaijan; Chechnya (Russia); Russia

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



261 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

SHAKE-UP AT HEWLETT-PACKARD -- Hewlett-Packard shook up its board in an agreement that seemed to leave all the parties in its boardroom tussle satisfied, if not happy. Its chairwoman will step aside in January, its chief executive will succeed her, and its longest-serving director resigned. [Page A1.] 


BRISTOL CHIEF IS OUSTED -- Peter R. Dolan's troubled five-year term as chief executive of the drug maker Bristol-Myers Squibb ended as the board dismissed him over the botched handling of a patent dispute involving the company's blockbuster drug, Plavix. Mr. Dolan, 50, will be succeeded by an interim chief, James M. Cornelius, a Bristol-Myers director. [C1.]

MEDICARE PREMIUMS TO INCREASE -- The basic Medicare premium will rise next year to $93.50 a month, an increase of $5, the Bush administration announced. It said that more affluent beneficiaries would have to pay a new surcharge, ranging from $12.50 to $68.60 a month. [A20.]

VIOXX RISKS -- Vioxx, which is no longer on the market, may have posed heart risks that a similar drug, Celebrex, and other painkillers do not, according to two papers published by The Journal of the American Medical Association. [A18.]

LONELYGIRL UNMASKED -- A nearly four-month-old Internet mystery involving the cryptic video musings of a fresh-faced teenager known as Lonelygirl15 appears to be solved, with the girl identified as an actress who is part of a project to make a movie. [C1.]

TAX PROVISION AND ARTWORK -- Directors and trustees of the nation's top art museums are preparing a lobbying effort to reverse a federal tax provision that they say will significantly harm their ability to acquire new artworks. [E1.]

TAX RULING IN EUROPE -- Europe's highest court ruled that countries could not go after profits earned by company subsidiaries in other European countries as long as the businesses were not ''artificial'' arrangements to avoid paying taxes. [C4.]

TAKING AIM AT SALT -- The American Medical Association is going after the government and the food industry to reduce what it sees as a persistently high level of salt in many processed foods. [C1.]

STRONG EARNINGS AT GOLDMAN -- Despite a summer slump in trading up and down Wall Street, and expectations of a significant decline in investment banking, Goldman Sachs reported strong third-quarter earnings. Market Place. [C3.]

SHARES RISE -- Stocks rose the most in about a month, led by retail shares as investors bet that falling crude oil prices would propel consumer spending and lift corporate profits while easing inflation. [C10.]

TRADE DEFICIT HITS RECORD -- The United States trade deficit rose sharply in July to a record $68 billion, as oil import prices and demand for foreign goods and services rose to new highs. [C4.]

BIG LAW FIRMS LOOK AT MERGING -- Two prominent law firms on opposite coasts -- Dewey Ballantine of New York and Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe of San Francisco -- confirmed that they were discussing a possible merger that could create one of the nation's largest corporate legal advisers. [C4.]

REACHING OUT TO RUST BELT -- Labor-starved Wyoming, with its energy boom in coal, oil and natural gas, is vigorously courting the workers of the Rust Belt -- in particular, those in Michigan's auto industry. And the workers are responding. [A1.]

APPLE'S NEW PLANS -- Steven P. Jobs, chief executive of Apple Computer, announced plans for a device that will plug into a television and wirelessly pull in video and music from a Macintosh computer in the den or from the Internet. Mr. Jobs also introduced new products including an ultrasmall version of the iPod Shuffle, above, that disappears in the palm of a hand and clips onto clothing. [C1.]

SOROS DONATES $50 MILLION -- The financier and philanthropist George Soros said that he was contributing $50 million to support a sprawling social experiment, organized and led by the economist Jeffrey D. Sachs, that aims to help villages in Africa escape grinding poverty. [A18.]

GATES FOUNDATION AND AFRICA -- The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation announced that it was working with the Rockefeller Foundation to increase agricultural productivity in Africa. [A18.]

PANEL TO EXAMINE SECURITIES LAWS -- A committee filled with business leaders and academics was created to consider changes in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other laws and regulations governing securities markets and companies, with the intention of improving competitiveness for American markets. [C3.]

ONLINE

SMALL BUSINESS -- The rapid expansion of Vince, a sportswear line, has caught no one by surprise, except perhaps its partners, all veterans of mainstream apparel manufacturing companies. A special report can be found at nytimes.com/business.

KATIE COURIC -- Bill Carter of The Times offers his take on Katie Couric's debut on the ''CBS Evening News'' at nytimes.com/television.

DEALBOOK -- A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

Business Briefing
An article on this development are at nytimes.com/business.

COMVERSE TECHNOLOGY, A MAKER of voice-mail software, said second-quarter sales rose 38 percent, butthe company did not report full results because of an investigation into its stock option grants. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Bristol-Myers Squibb's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MEDICARE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (85%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (75%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); LOBBYING (70%); APPEALS (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (70%); FILM (70%); TAX LAW (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); IMPORT TRADE (67%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (66%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); INVESTMENT BANKING (64%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (64%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); IMPORT PRICES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); PATENTS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); BMY (NYSE) (72%); GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: JAMES M CORNELIUS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



262 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Panel of Executives and Academics to Consider Regulation and Competitiveness

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
A committee filled with business leaders and academics was created yesterday to consider changes in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other laws and regulations governing securities markets and companies, with the intention of improving competitiveness for American markets. 
 The group, called the Committee on Capital Markets Regulation, has no official status but the announcement of its creation included praise from Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., who said that the issue of American competitiveness ''is important to the future of the American economy and a priority for me.''
Hal S. Scott, a Harvard law professor who will be the committee's director, said in an interview that he had begun working a year ago to form the group because he was concerned that American markets were losing competitiveness. He said its members had been chosen by himself and the two co-chairmen, R. Glenn Hubbard and John L. Thornton. 
 Mr. Hubbard is dean of the Columbia Business School and a former chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers. Mr. Thornton is board chairman of the Brookings Institution and a former president of Goldman, Sachs, where he reported to Mr. Paulson.
 Among the issues to be considered are whether laws need to be changed to limit both civil and criminal liability for companies, auditors and directors. One matter Mr. Scott cited is the proper role of state governments in financial market issues, including the cases brought by Eliot Spitzer, the New York State attorney general.
 The committee will consider whether Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires audits of internal controls at corporations, should be changed. Critics say that such audits are too expensive and have kept foreign companies from listing their securities in the United States.
 Mr. Scott said the committee would also review whether the Securities and Exchange Commission needed to adopt better procedures to weigh the costs and benefits of its regulations, and whether some other government agency should be charged with reviewing those decisions.
 The final area to be discussed, he said, is shareholder rights, including the efforts of hedge funds to force changes in corporate policies, and whether shareholder approval should be required for takeover defenses.
 While the committee includes many officers of companies that are subject to regulation by the S.E.C., it includes no former agency chairmen or commissioners, or people who held major S.E.C. staff positions. 
 ''We generally tried not to include regulators,'' Mr. Scott said. ''We would not want to put people in the position who had formulated these rules in the past. They may have a lack of objectivity.''
 He noted that one member, Robert Glauber, a visiting professor at Harvard Law School and a former chairman of NASD, did have experience in regulation.
 ''Anybody on this committee is in the real world and will bring with them real-world perspectives,'' he said.
 Mr. Hubbard said the committee would be knowledgeable about regulation. ''Many of these people have S.E.C. interaction on a regular basis,'' he said, adding that the academics involved, either as members of the panel or as advisers, were experts in many areas of securities law and regulation.
 Among the committee members are Samuel A. DiPiazza Jr., chief executive of the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Donald L. Evans, the former commerce secretary who is now chief executive of the Financial Services Forum, a lobbying group for major insurers, banks and investment banks. Mr. Paulson is a former chairman of the group.
 There are also chief executives of DuPont, Office Depot and the CIT Group, and top officers of mutual fund companies, Lehman Brothers and the New York Stock Exchange. William G. Parrett, chief executive of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu, another major accounting firm, is also a member, as is Ira M. Millstein, a leading corporate lawyer.
 Accounting firms have been seeking legislative relief from liability suits over failed audits, a matter the committee will consider. Asked if the chairmen of such firms might lack objectivity, Mr. Scott said that they might also oppose some issues the committee planned to consider. ''These big auditing firms have been the big beneficiaries of 404,'' he said. ''We are thinking of changing 404.''
 The group plans to have an interim report in November, a date Mr. Hubbard said Mr. Paulson had requested. That could allow its recommendations to be considered at post-election meetings of Congress, although Mr. Scott said he thought the idea was to have proposals ready for the new Congress in January.
 Mr. Scott said that academics would prepare papers for the committee, and that those papers could form the basis for parts of the report. Luigi Zingales, a professor at the University of Chicago business school and a committee member, will prepare a report on the overall issue of competitiveness.
 Robert E. Litan of Brookings will report on liability matters, Mr. Glauber will discuss the regulatory framework and Andrew Kuritzkes of Mercer Oliver Wyman, a consulting firm, will assess the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
 Allen Ferrell of Harvard Law School will report on shareholder rights, John C. Coffee Jr. of Columbia Law School on securities class-action suits, and Kenneth E. Scott of Stanford Law School on federal-state conflict in regulation.
 Reinier H. Kraakman of Harvard Law School will report on liability issues involving directors and investment banks, and John K. Villa, a criminal defense lawyer and a partner in the firm of Williams & Connolly, will discuss criminal enforcement of securities laws.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); AUDITS (87%); LAWYERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BONDS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Law and Legislation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%) Committee on Capital Markets Regulation

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) Henry M Jr Paulson; Hal S (Prof) Scott; R Glenn Hubbard; John L Thornton; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



263 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Look Who Got a Raise

 BODY:
Fearing inflation, investors were spooked recently by a government report showing that companies have spent a lot of money of late on their employees. Annual labor costs were up in the second quarter by 4.9 percent, nearly a point higher than initially estimated. That came on top of a much bigger than expected increase in the first quarter. 
 Compensation is business's biggest expense, so rising labor costs -- if passed on to consumers -- could certainly push up prices. But so far, there are no clear signs of that happening. Instead, today's rising labor costs seem to reflect a different economic phenomenon: growing income inequality.
The big jump in labor costs in the first quarter appears to be driven by fat bonuses and stock options -- not hefty increases in wages and salaries, the financial lifeblood of most Americans. One-off shots of income do not portend higher inflation because they reflect activity that already happened. And they don't translate into more money for most people. According to David A. Rosenberg, an economist for Merrill Lynch, the huge upward revision in first-quarter labor costs worked out to some $80 billion on an annual basis that flowed to ''a lot of well-heeled folks cashing in their stocks.'' 
 Rising labor costs also reflect the high cost of employees' health insurance. Unfortunately, that expense doesn't imply better coverage, only higher prices for even a bare-bones plan. The more insurance costs, the more it eats into take-home pay, without making up for the loss with better benefits. 
 When statisticians talk about ''labor costs'' and economists -- and politicians -- talk about ''compensation,'' they mean all forms of earned income, like wages, salaries, bonuses and stock options, plus benefits, like insurance and pensions. Measured that way, employees don't look too terribly squeezed. But for most workers, increases in wages or salaries, if any, have been steadily eroded by inflation while health insurance, if any, costs more and covers less.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Bonuses; Executives and Management; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy; Editorials

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



264 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: In Iran, Iraqi Is Offered Aid In Trying to Quell Violence

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI and EDWARD WONG; Nazila Fathi reported from Tehran, and Edward Wong from Baghdad.

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
In his first state visit to Iran, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki discussed the security situation in Iraq with the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and asked for his support in quelling the violence that threatens to fracture Iraq. 
 ''We had a good discussion with Mr. Ahmadinejad,'' Mr. Maliki said at a news conference here on Tuesday, after the two met. ''Even in security issues, there is no barrier in the way of cooperation.'' 
For his part, Mr. Ahmadinejad said, ''Iran will give its assistance to establish complete security in Iraq, because Iraq's security is Iran's security.'' It was not clear what form Iranian support on security would take, or how it would be received by the American authorities here.
 This was not the first time an Iraqi prime minister had visited Iran. Mr. Maliki's predecessor, Ibrahim al-Jaafari, made the trip in July 2005.
 For Mr. Maliki, as for Mr. Jaafari, the visit was a kind of homecoming, because they both spent parts of their exile years during Saddam Hussein's rule living here. Many members of Mr. Maliki's Shiite political group, the Islamic Dawa Party, fled to Iran to escape Mr. Hussein's security forces.
 Mr. Maliki's visit occurred against a backdrop of increasing accusations from the American ambassador in Baghdad, Zalmay Khalilzad, and American military commanders that elements in Iran are stoking violence in Iraq. 
 American generals have said people or groups in Iran are providing training and financing to Shiite militias in Iraq. Mr. Khalilzad said last month that Iran was urging Shiite militias to step up attacks on the American-led forces in retaliation for the Israeli assault on Lebanon.
 The United States has also been pressuring Iran to end its uranium enrichment program, which White House officials say could result in a nuclear weapon. 
 Many Sunni Arab leaders in the region fear that Iraqi Shiite politicians are increasingly being drawn into the Iranian sphere of influence. More broadly, they fear the emergence of a ''Shiite crescent'' stretching from Iran through Iraq and Syria, to Lebanon, all of which have significant Shiite populations. 
 Mr. Maliki said the American accusations of Iranian interference in Iraq will have no effect on existing agreements between the countries.
 ''All the political, security and economic accords that have been signed with the Islamic republic's officials will be carried out,'' he said.
 Mr. Maliki is leading a large delegation that includes Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the Iraqi national security adviser, who is close to some Iranian officials. The Iraqis are scheduled to meet on Wednesday with Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader, and Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, a powerful former president. 
 In the southern Iraqi city of Najaf, another Shiite leader close to Iran, Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, defended his decision last week to ask Parliament to endorse a mechanism allowing Iraqi provinces to form autonomous regions. ''We think that federalism is one of the administrative ways that helps to secure our rights, remove oppression and prevent sectarian discrimination among people of one country and one belief,'' Mr. Hakim said.
 Mr. Hakim's move has spurred the legislators who answer to Moktada al-Sadr, a radical Shiite cleric, to unite with Parliament's main Sunni Arab and secular blocs to try to sink Mr. Hakim's plan.
 Mr. Sadr, a longtime foe of Mr. Hakim, fears that if the plan goes into effect, Mr. Hakim will emerge as the ruler of the oil-rich southern region, Iraqi political experts say. The Sunni Arabs are especially opposed to the idea of regional autonomy because their provinces lack oil.
 Violence flared across parts of Iraq on Tuesday. In western Baghdad, a car bomb aimed at an American convoy killed six civilians and wounded 15, an Interior Ministry official said. A homemade bomb killed one policeman and one civilian and wounded six civilians. 
 An Iraqi policeman was shot dead in southwest Baghdad, and two bodies and a human head were discovered in three neighborhoods. The head had a note attached: ''This is the destiny of those who work with the Americans.''
 Two civilians were killed in separate shootings in Diyala Province. A police captain in Mosul was killed, and one Iraqi Army soldier was killed and three were wounded by a bomb south of Kirkuk.

No Change From Iran, U.S. Says
 WASHINGTON, Sept. 12 (Reuters) -- Iran has not offered to temporarily suspend its uranium enrichment program as part of an effort to open talks over its nuclear program with six major powers, the State Department said on Tuesday.
 Indications that Tehran had shown some flexibility on suspending its program emerged from weekend talks between the Iranian negotiator, Ali Larijani, and the European Union foreign policy chief, Javier Solana.
 A European Union diplomat said Mr. Larijani offered to consider suspending enrichment activity while the two sides carried out talks. On Monday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice seemed to suggest Washington might join talks with Iran if it temporarily suspended its program.
 But a State Department deputy spokesman, Tom Casey, dismissed reports of ''some alleged Iranian offer'' and said: ''To the best of my knowledge, there's been no Iranian proposal; there's been no change in the Iranian position, meaning they have not agreed to suspend uranium enrichment activities for any length of time that I'm aware of.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki of Iraq, left, and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in Tehran. (Photo by Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RELIGION (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (95%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (91%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); LEBANON (92%); IRAN (88%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



265 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Critics Fail to Stop City Panel From Voting to Aid Arts Group 

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Despite pleas by several elected officials to reject a $12.75 million bond-financing project for a nonprofit group founded by Lenora B. Fulani and Fred Newman, a New York City panel approved the deal yesterday in an unusually close vote. 
 Dr. Fulani and Dr. Newman, who as leading members of the Independence Party supported Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's two successful campaigns for mayor, founded a nonprofit group, the All Stars Project, in 1981. Dr. Fulani has been criticized for making inflammatory comments about Jews in the late 1980's, while Dr. Newman advocates an unorthodox form of therapy that critics have likened to a cult.
On a 6-to-4 vote, the city's Industrial Development Agency approved tax-exempt bond financing that will allow the All Stars Project, which uses the performing arts to help low-income children, to make improvements on its Midtown headquarters and to refinance an earlier bond deal that the agency approved in 2002.
 At a meeting in Lower Manhattan yesterday, the agency's chairman, Joshua J. Sirefman, who is also interim president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, told the board that he took the objections of other officials ''very seriously'' but that there was no sound basis to turn down the project. 
 ''Based on our review of the All Stars Project, we have determined that the organization is in good standing, we found no evidence of misconduct of any kind by the organization, and we established that the project would benefit New York City,'' he said. ''We are aware that allegations of wrongdoing by individuals associated with the organization existed a number of years ago.'' 
 Dr. Fulani, who trained as a psychologist, wrote in 1989 that Jews ''had to sell their souls to acquire Israel'' and, in the process, had to ''function as mass murderers of people of color.'' Dr. Newman, who has a doctorate in philosophy, last year acknowledged having intimate relationships with women who initially approached him for therapy.
 On Monday, the state comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, and three other officials urged Mr. Sirefman to reject the project. Mr. Bloomberg last year called Dr. Fulani's comments about Jews ''despicable,'' but he has donated money to both the Independence Party and the All Stars Project. 
 Along with Mr. Sirefman, two other mayoral representatives voted in favor of the project, as did representatives of Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development; Michael A. Cardozo, the corporation counsel, and Amanda M. Burden, chairwoman of the City Planning Commission.
 Representatives of the Manhattan, Bronx and Queens borough presidents voted against the project, as did the representative of City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. The representative of the Brooklyn borough president abstained. Two members were absent. The 15-member board has two vacancies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); BONDS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CITIES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); MISCONDUCT (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (53%) Jews; Anti-Semitism; Finances; Government Bonds; Children and Youth; Elections; Mayors

ORGANIZATION: All Stars Project Performing Arts and Learning Center; New York City Industrial Development Agency; All Stars Project Performing Arts and Learning Center

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%) Sewell Chan; Lenora Fulani; Fred Newman; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



266 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: For Sale: Big Middle-Class Enclave With Lots of Potential

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN and CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
For generations of teachers, civil servants and other middle-class New Yorkers, Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, two neighboring red-brick complexes along the East River in Manhattan, have provided more than housing at a reasonable price. The landscaped enclaves also offer a sense of community -- and a bit of tranquillity -- in a crowded and noisy city.
 Now these two complexes are at the center of a red-hot auction that will allow the winner to claim 110 buildings and 11,200 apartments. But at first glance, the proposed sale of the complexes by Metropolitan Life, their original owner, might seem like an unlikely candidate for deal of the year.
 Nearly three-quarters of the apartments, built in the 1940's to house veterans returning from World War II, are subject to rent regulation. MetLife projects that the net operating income this year for the two complexes will be $112.1 million, rising to $167.4 million next year. That means that the initial return for an investor paying the target price of more than $4 billion would be far less than the 5 percent or so yield on a Treasury bill. 
 Yet the sale, which comes at a time when rents in the city are rapidly rising, has spurred widespread interest from prospective real estate developers and investors, a number of whom are scrambling to meet MetLife's Oct. 5 deadline for placing their offers. 
 Potential buyers include many well-known real estate players -- from residential developers like the Lefrak Organization and the Related Companies to investment funds like Starwood Capital Group and ING Clarion and publicly traded real estate investment trusts like Vornado Realty Trust and Archstone-Smith. Because the deal is likely to require as much $1.5 billion in equity, the buyer is almost certain to be a joint venture of two or more companies, real estate specialists said. 
 Nonprofit groups seeking to preserve the city's dwindling stock of rent-stabilized apartments may also be among the bidders. 
 It is not just the rare chance to own 80 acres of Manhattan real estate that is driving all the frenzy among private investors, though that is certainly a consideration. ''You couldn't imagine redoing something like this,'' said a likely bidder, Richard S. LeFrak, chief executive of the Lefrak Organization, which has built thousands of apartments in New York and Jersey City.
 Nor is it unusual for apartment buildings in Manhattan, where competition is often feverish, to sell at a low initial rate of return, or capitalization rate. The average capitalization rate for Manhattan apartment buildings sold last month was 3.8 percent, according to Real Capital Analytics, a New York research firm. Buyers who pay rich prices are counting on improving the building's income stream, either through rising rents or conversion to condominiums.
 In its pitch to prospective buyers, MetLife is selling the opportunity to transform Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, which were built with large public subsidies, into the ''city's most prominent market-rate master community.'' Buyers can expect to triple their earnings from the properties over the next decade, the company says in its offering memorandum. 
 MetLife officials would not agree to be interviewed.
 For prospective buyers, the challenge comes in trying to gauge the future vacancy rate by calculating the proportion of young couples likely to feel cramped for space as their families grow, or the proportion of elderly tenants. ''You try to be as accurate as you can,'' Mr. LeFrak said. ''You're talking about lots of money. Then you project the cash flows, based on those assumptions.'' 
 Then, too, there is the possibility of weeding out rent-regulated tenants who do not use their apartment as a primary residence, or who may not meet the rent-stabilization guidelines. An occupied apartment becomes deregulated if the tenant's annual income exceeds $175,000 for two years and the rent is more than $2,000. 
 The memo, prepared by MetLife's brokerage company, CB Richard Ellis, also suggests a variety of ''creative strategies'' for prospective buyers to wring more revenue out of the complexes, which are between 14th and 23rd streets and First Avenue and Avenue C. These include combining apartments for larger families, upgrading the retail stores, adding doormen to make the spartan buildings appear more luxurious and developing ''senior-friendly buildings.'' While the complex already has six garages, the insurance company said a new landlord might also want to create additional parking -- at premium rates -- along the interior roadways.
 Exploiting unused development rights, or air rights, is another way to add value, the memo says. The extent of these air rights has not yet been determined because the buildings were developed under pre-1961 zoning regulations, said Rachaele Raynoff, a spokeswoman for the Department of City Planning.
 One prospective buyer, who requested anonymity because he signed a confidentiality agreement with CB Richard Ellis, said the true value of the complexes lay in their potential as condominiums. ''The rest is just frills,'' he said. 
 The prospect of conversion would add substantially to the price, according to one appraiser, Bob Von Ancken, an executive managing director for Grubb & Ellis Consulting Services. ''Typically, what you do as a rule of thumb is you take the basic price and add at least one-third,'' he said.
 Yet the disparity in rent and income between regulated and market-rate apartments is also considerable. At Peter Cooper Village, where the apartments are more spacious, the average monthly rent for regulated apartments ranges from $1,178 for a one-bedroom unit to $1,581 for three bedrooms, while the average rents for market-rate apartments range from $2,662 to $5,842.
 At Stuyvesant Town, where hardly any of the standard apartments have more than one bathroom, renters in regulated apartments pay an average of $1,096 for a one-bedroom apartment and $1,514 for three. Average rents for deregulated apartments range from $2,406 to $3,833. 
 The gross annual income from deregulated apartments -- which make up 27 percent of the total -- exceeds the income from the rent-stabilized apartments by nearly $39 million, MetLife's memo said.
 In recent years, MetLife has sought to crack down on tenants who are not listed on the lease. But the company says more aggressive measures would result in a turnover of 1,000 apartments a year, about double the current rate. ''They've done a lot but our feeling was there was more to be done,'' said another developer who has looked at the confidential materials.
 But tenants who might be targets can take measures to forestall eviction. ''They can rearrange their lives and straighten up their documentation, like getting a driver's license in New York,'' said John T. Van Der Tuin, a New York real estate lawyer.
 One way to speed up deregulation is through renovation, Mr. Von Ancken said. A vacant apartment remains regulated unless the monthly rent has reached $2,000. MetLife, which says it has made more than $320 million in capital improvements since 2002, spends between $40,000 and $50,000 on each apartment upgrade and is allowed to increase the monthly rent by one-fortieth of that amount. 
 The possibility that thousands of additional apartments may eventually be removed from the rent stabilization program has already sparked an outcry from tenants and some political leaders. Potential buyers acknowledge that political pressure that could slow revenue growth is likely. 
 ''This will be a political hot potato,'' said Ross Nussbaum, a senior REIT analyst for Banc ofAmerica Securities. ''The risk has to get priced in.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, Stuyvesant Town buildings in Manhattan. The complex's parklike courtyard, below, gives residents a sense of community. (Photographs by Uli Seit for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); RENT CONTROL (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); AUCTIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); DIVESTITURES (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); WORLD WAR II (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Housing; Housing; Condominiums; Renting and Leasing; Rent Control and Stabilization; Stuyvesant Town (NYC); Peter Cooper Village (NYC); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (66%); STARWOOD CAPITAL GROUP LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin; Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2006



267 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Report Warns of U.S. Slowdown

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Thursday, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
A cooling housing market is likely to trigger a slowdown in the United States economy next year and could weigh on the global economy as well, the International Monetary Fund said on Thursday. 
 Growth in the United States, which was strong in the first six months, is expected to slow from 3.4 percent this year to 2.9 percent in 2007, the fund said in its semiannual World Economic Outlook. The I.M.F. and World Bank will meet here next week. In April, the I.M.F. had projected American growth next year would reach 3.3 percent.
Citing strong growth in China, the fund raised its global growth forecast a quarter percentage point, to 5.1 percent this year and 4.9 percent in 2007. But it warned that inflationary pressures, high oil prices and a possible abrupt slowdown in the United States could undermine global growth.
 The report suggested that further interest rate increases in the United States might be necessary. Washington could help reduce global imbalances, it said, by setting a more ambitious deficit reduction path.
 Japan, the world's second-largest economy, will likely grow 2.7 percent this year on the back of solid domestic demand, but should ease next year to 2.1 percent, the I.M.F. said.
 In Europe, growth would rise to 2.4 percent in 2006 before moderating to 2 percent in 2007 largely because of scheduled tax increases in Germany, the report said.
 China's economy will probably steam ahead with 10 percent growth this year and next, the report said, but the region could be hurt if the country's investment boom sputters.
 Growth in India, emerging Asia's other major engine, would moderate to a still robust 8.3 percent this year and 7.3 percent next year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TRENDS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INFLATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Housing ; International Trade and World Market; Credit; Interest Rates; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) International Monetary Fund; European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%) China; Europe; Japan; India

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



268 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1639 words

HEADLINE: Wolfowitz Corruption Drive Rattles World Bankers

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
In his first 15 months as president of the World Bank, Paul D. Wolfowitz has made the fight against corruption in poor countries a hallmark issue, waging an aggressive campaign that has led to the suspension of hundreds of millions of dollars in loans and contracts to nations including India, Chad, Kenya, Congo, Ethiopia and Bangladesh.
 It is a new incarnation for Mr. Wolfowitz, a neoconservative intellectual who was a primary architect of the Iraq war during four years as deputy secretary of defense.
At the World Bank, Mr. Wolfowitz, 62, has maintained an assertive but soft-spoken style, saying recently that the bank's mission was ''to send children to school, to help mothers be healthier, to provide jobs for poor people -- not to have resources siphoned off into the hands of the corrupt and greedy.'' 
 In recent months, however, his campaign has run into a host of critics, both at the bank and among financial officials outside the United States, who say that developing countries are being threatened with arbitrary punishment in a way that jeopardizes the bank's longtime mission to reduce poverty.
 Few here at the World Bank dispute the idea that corruption is a serious problem, but the rift over Mr. Wolfowitz's approach has grown deep and bitter, according to more than a dozen bank officials interviewed recently. 
 The backlash at the bank against Mr. Wolfowitz's approach centers not on his intentions or goals, but on a widespread fear that countries will be categorized in the future as corrupt or not corrupt, and that lending will be shut off in a selective way.
 ''Anticorruption efforts are an essential part of development finance,'' said Roberto Danino, a senior vice president of the bank until early this year. ''But getting rid of corruption is not a silver bullet. The bank should not overemphasize its anticorruption agenda at the expense of other policies required for development.''
 Mr. Wolfowitz acknowledges that his decisions to suspend or delay loans, contracts and debt relief funds for many countries have provoked outcries, but he says that in almost every case, the funds were restored after safeguards were set up.
 He has begun firing back at the critics at internal meetings and in public statements. He notes, for example, that the bank's lending under his leadership actually rose slightly last year, to nearly $23 billion.
 Mr. Wolfowitz says he has tried to rebut what he calls the myth that combating fraud is ''somehow at odds with development or becomes an excuse not to provide assistance.'' 
 While no one knows how much of the bank's resources have been improperly diverted, informal estimates range from 10 percent to the 25 percent that Mr. Wolfowitz says went to corrupt cronies and family members of Indonesia's leadership in the 1990's.
 During the Reagan administration, Mr. Wolfowitz served as assistant secretary of state for East Asia, and, in the Clinton years, as dean of the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. 
 Some bank officials say that the widespread concern about Mr. Wolfowitz's approach reflects lingering doubts among many international aid specialists about his selection for the bank post by President Bush. 
 The doubts center on Mr. Wolfowitz's role as a leading advocate of the American invasion of Iraq, with many critics contending that his zeal on corruption reminds them of what they say was his messianic but unrealistic faith that installing democracy by force in Iraq, and by other means through the Middle East, would bring stability to the region. 
 The criticism has been especially sharp among Europeans at the bank, where many officials say that judgments about what constitutes ''good governance'' could rupture the bank's delicate relationships with aid recipients, especially if the judgments are based on information gathered from dissidents and other critics in those countries.
 ''We must not use corruption as an excuse for a massive withdrawal of our help,'' a senior French finance official involved in discussions with the bank said. The official was among many who agreed to discuss the internal debate only on condition of anonymity.
 In recent months, Mr. Wolfowitz and his aides have been negotiating with skeptical members of the bank's board of 24 executive directors from around the world on guidelines for handling corruption issues. Several of the meetings have been contentious, participants say.
 This week, the board forwarded a draft of the guidelines and policies for approval by the world's finance ministers at the annual meeting of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, which begins Thursday in Singapore. But many officials said they expected the arguments to continue there and into the future.
 Several longtime bank officials say they cannot remember when board members wrangled over the wording of a policy paper with a bank president. At recent meetings, directors demanded that Mr. Wolfowitz agree to a greater role for the board in any future decisions on cutting off aid. 
 In addition, members forced the deletion of language suggesting that the United Nations' goal of reducing world poverty 50 percent by 2015 would have to take second place to the bank's drive against corruption.
 Still, Britain and other European and developing countries remain skeptical on what may happen when the document is approved, bank officials said.
 ''The bank,'' a board member said, ''should not become a world policeman pointing its moral finger and conditioning everything on whether or not a country is believed to be corrupt. The more the bank goes beyond its old mandate of reducing poverty, the more problems will come up.''
 In an interview, Mr. Wolfowitz acknowledged that the idea of drafting a paper on bank corruption policies had been urged on him out of fear that he would punish countries without consulting the board. He said he did not take the criticism as personally directed at him or his record on Iraq.
 ''I think some of the board members,'' Mr. Wolfowitz said, ''are legitimately afraid that as soon as you start criticizing, the next thing you're going to do is wag your finger and say, 'You're not going to get money unless you behave.' That's not our objective. Our objective is to make the lending go up.''
 Past actions taken on behalf of the bank have involved a variety of presumed improprieties. For example, aides to Mr. Wolfowitz said he suspended debt relief talks with Congo because he was dissatisfied with audits of its state oil company. They said he expressed indignation over news reports about extravagant hotel bills incurred by Congo's president during United Nations General Assembly meetings in New York last September.
 The bank has looked at, among other things, accusations of corrupt bidding practices for road projects in Bangladesh, kickbacks to politicians in Argentina and the resignation of high officials in Kenya linked to projects there.
 By all accounts, a pivotal moment in Mr. Wolfowitz's campaign came last year when the bank suspended $800 million in loans for maternal and children's health in India in response to assertions that illicit payments had been going to officials.
 Nancy Boswell, president of Transparency International USA, a nongovernmental monitoring group that strongly supports Mr. Wolfowitz's efforts on corruption, said, ''It sent a tremor through the bank that Wolfowitz was serious, that he was going to ask hard questions, look at the track record of countries and make some changes.'' 
 But many at the bank complained that the action had been taken without consultation, and protests were lodged by top aides to Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, bank officials said.
 Few would characterize the bank's 10,000 employees, 70 percent of whom work in Washington, as enthusiastic supporters of the Bush administration. Since taking office, Mr. Wolfowitz has told staff members that he wants to listen to them. He has impressed many with his trips to Africa and advocacy of debt relief for the poorest countries.
 But distrust of Mr. Wolfowitz remains high, in part because, according to some, he has not given enough credit to his predecessor, James D. Wolfensohn, who spoke out against corruption and set up the bank's first investigative unit in the late 1990's.
 When Mr. Wolfowitz arrived, he acknowledged Mr. Wolfensohn's efforts, but also complained that the fraud unit had more than 300 unresolved cases. He increased its budget nearly 50 percent and appointed a new director. He has also set up a program for companies to disclose bribes they paid in order to avoid sanctions.
 Currently, about 330 companies accused of corruption have been barred from bank-financed business or been otherwise penalized. The bank is trying to get nations and other international aid agencies to take similar action. 
 Mr. Wolfowitz's management style also grates on some bank officials, with a number of them complaining that he has relied on a small coterie of loyal aides. ''He presumes,'' said Mr. Danino, the former bank senior vice president and once prime minister of Peru, ''that anyone who opposes him is either incompetent or corrupt.''
 But supporters say Mr. Wolfowitz is determined to shake up the bank and was inspired to move on corruption by staff members, especially those posted outside Washington and Europe. They say he has had to battle a mentality that emphasizes loan programs, not crackdowns on corrupt individuals.
 ''Let's face it, promotion at the World Bank comes from spending money,'' said John Githongo, a onetime campaigner against corruption in Kenya who has fled to safety in Britain and is now an adviser to Mr. Wolfowitz. ''If you're in the field, and too many complaints about corruption interrupt the spending, it has an impact on your career trajectory.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mr. Wolfowitz being greeted at his hotel in Singapore early yesterday. (Photo by The Straits Times, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); TRENDS (86%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); ETHICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FAMILY (74%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Paul D Wolfowitz; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (92%); IRAQ (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



269 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Rally Is Led by Rebound in Energy Shares 

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks rose for a fourth day yesterday, sending major indexes to their highest levels since May, as battered energy shares like Exxon Mobil rebounded and investors bet that interest rates would not rise anytime soon.
 Crude oil futures gained after seven straight sessions of declines, feeding a broader advance in the energy sector. But with crude oil prices still down more than 18 percent since July, traders said investors were optimistic that the economy would avert a sharp downturn in consumer spending, helping to sustain corporate profit growth.
Investors snapped up retail shares like Home Depot and industrial stocks like Boeing and Caterpillar on hopes that the pullback in oil prices will persuade the Federal Reserve to keep interest rates unchanged. Last month, the Fed paused after two years of raising rates. 
 ''The market is having a little more confidence in the consumer, looking at this last run-up,'' said Mike Binger, portfolio manager at Thrivent Financial in Minneapolis. ''People are feeling more comfortable that inflation won't run away.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 45.23 points, or 0.39 percent, to end at 11,543.32. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 4.96 points, or 0.38 percent, to finish at 1,318.07. The Nasdaq composite index rose 11.85 points, or 0.53 percent, to end at 2,227.67.
 Yesterday's gain put the Dow 0.85 percent below its high for the year, reached in May when it came within 80 points of its Jan. 14, 2000, record of 11,750.28.
 Crude oil for October delivery rose 21 cents, to settle at $63.97 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The government reported a larger-than-expected draw in crude stockpiles in the latest week.
 Exxon Mobil led the S.&P. 500 higher and also helped the Dow, rising 1 percent, or 66 cents, to close at $65.36.
 The Dow's biggest lift came from Boeing, whose stock ended up 2.8 percent, or $2.06, at $76.32. The stock of Caterpillar ranked as the Dow's second-biggest gainer, up 1.8 percent, or $1.18, at $66.33.
 Shares of Home Depot, the nation's leading home improvement chain, were another of the Dow's big gainers, rising 1.4 percent, or 51 cents, to $37.17. 
 Financial stocks also advanced, with shares of Lehman Brothers Holdings up 3 percent, or $2.10, at $70.12 after its quarterly profit beat Wall Street's forecast. The S.&P. financial index rose 0.7 percent.
 Shares of Google contributed the most to the Nasdaq 100's gain, followed by Starbucks, which is among the stocks seen as a gauge of consumer spending.
 Google shares shot up 3.7 percent, or $14.67, to $406.57, while Starbucks gained 1.9 percent, or 60 cents, to $33.04.
 But shares of Hewlett-Packard fell 1.5 percent, or 55 cents, to $36.37 after the California attorney general said he had enough evidence to indict people at the company in an investigation into whether it illegally obtained private phone records.
 Prices of Treasury securities rose as recent declines in oil prices assuaged bond investors' inflation concerns. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 3/32, to 100 29/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.76 percent, from 4.77 percent on Tuesday. Here are results of yesterday's auction of one-day cash management bills: 

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price -- 99.985
Investment Rate -- 5.273
High Rate -- 5.200
Low Rate -- 5.160
Median Rate -- 5.175
Total applied for -- $35,137,000
Accepted -- $8,000,476
Noncompetitive -- $-0-

The 1-day cash management bills mature Sept. 15, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); HOME CENTERS (89%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); FUTURES (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (85%); GOOGLE INC (80%); BOEING CO (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (85%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (80%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (80%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



270 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Even for Shoe Bombers, Education and Success Are Linked

BYLINE: By Austan Goolsbee. 
Austan Goolsbee is a professor of economics at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business and a research fellow at the American Bar Foundation. E-mail: goolsbee@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE fifth anniversary of 9/11 passed with a great deal of hand-wringing over all the people who want to kill Americans. Especially worrisome is the apparent rise of terrorists whose origins seem far from fanatical.
 These terrorists are not desperately poor uneducated people from the Middle East. A surprisingly large share of them have college and even graduate degrees. Increasingly, they seem to be from Britain, like the shoe bomber Richard C. Reid and most of the suspects in the London Underground bombings and the liquid explosives plot.
This has left the public wondering, Why are some educated people from Western countries so prone to fanaticism? 
 Before trying to answer that question, though, some economists argue that we need to think about what makes a successful terrorist and they warn against extrapolating from the terrorists we catch. It is a problem economists typically refer to as ''selection bias.''
 In their new study, ''Attack Assignments in Terror Organizations and the Productivity of Suicide Bombers,'' two economists, Efraim Benmelech of Harvard University and Claude Berrebi of the RAND Corporation, set out to analyze the productivity of terrorists in the same way they might analyze the auto industry. But they defined the ''success'' of terrorists by their ability to kill.
 They gathered data on Palestinian suicide bombers in Israel from 2000 to 2005 and found that for terrorists, just like for regular workers, experience and education improve productivity. Suicide bombers who are older -- in their late 20's and early 30's -- and better educated are less likely to be caught on their missions and are more likely to kill large numbers of people at bigger, more difficult targets than younger and more poorly educated bombers.
 Professor Benmelech and Dr. Berrebi compare a Who's Who of the biggest suicide bombers to more typical bombers. Whereas typical bombers were younger than 21 and about 18 percent of them had at least some college education, the average age of the most successful bombers was almost 26 and 60 percent of them were college educated.
 Experience and education also affect the chances of being caught. Every additional year of age reduces the chance by 12 percent. Having more than a high school education cuts the chance by more than half.
 There are many examples where young or uneducated terrorists made stupid mistakes that foiled them. Professor Benmelech recounts the case last April of a teenager from Nablus apprehended by Israeli soldiers before carrying out his bombing because he was wearing an overcoat on a 95-degree day. Mr. Reid, the failed shoe bomber, had only a high school degree. Would an older terrorist with more education have tried to light a match on his shoe (as Mr. Reid did) in plain view of the flight attendant and other passengers who proceeded to thwart his plan? Would a better-educated terrorist have been more discreet? We will never know.
 The research suggests, however, that there may be a reason that the average age of the 9/11 hijackers (at least the ones for whom we have a birth date) was close to 26 and that the supposed leader, Mohammed Atta, was 33 with a graduate degree.
 As Professor Benmelech put it in an interview: ''It's clear that there are some terrorist missions that require a certain level of skill to accomplish. The older terrorists with better educations seem to be less likely to fail them. Perhaps it is not surprising, then, that terrorist organizers assign them to these more difficult missions.''
 Among Palestinian suicide bombers, the older and better-educated bombers are assigned to targets in bigger cities where they can potentially kill greater numbers of people. That same idea means that the terrorists assigned to attack the United States are probably different from the typical terrorist. They will be drawn from people whose skills make them better at evading security. 
 We know relatively little about why the suspects arrested in the recent liquid explosives plot failed at their mission. Perhaps their poor educations made it easier to uncover their plan. We do know, however, that they included a large number of South Asians raised in Britain. It's only natural that terror groups would recruit native English speakers when people are clamoring for extra airport scrutiny of Arabs from the Middle East. It does not imply that the Muslim community is a more fertile ground for terrorists in Britain than in other countries.
 Think of the extreme case. One of the people arrested in the liquid explosives plot (albeit on a minor charge) was a woman with a baby. London newspapers have speculated that she was planning to carry her baby onto a plane with liquid explosives in his bottle. Even if true, that does not mean we should all start suspecting that women with babies are closet terrorists. That would be rather egregious selection bias. Objectively, we should be much more suspicious of other people. We see only the mother because the terrorists have an overwhelming incentive to find the one unusual terrorist who will outsmart our defenses. 
 And sadly, it seems that educated and intelligent terrorists are better at doing that than uneducated, fundamentalist lunatics. Oh, that it weren't so. Like the old advertisement said, a mind is a terrible thing to waste.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (97%); BOMBINGS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); ARMED FORCES (50%) Terrorism; Terrorism

COMPANY: RAND CORP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (68%)

PERSON: Austan (Prof) Goolsbee; Claude Berrebi; Efraim Benmelech

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (90%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



271 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: A Makeup Star Gives a Town A Fresh Face

BYLINE: By ISABEL C. GONZALEZ

 BODY:
WHEN Billy Brasfield was 18, he couldn't get away from his small hometown in Mississippi fast enough. 
 But now that he has built a career as a top makeup artist -- his rate is as high as $5,000 a day and his clients include Katie Couric, Beyonce and the Dixie Chicks -- he can't seem to keep himself away. For at least five days each month, when he is not in New York at a magazine cover shoot, or in London on the set of a music video, or in Los Angeles preparing a star for the red carpet, Mr. Brasfield trades makeup brushes for a paintbrush and gets to work on one of the Victorian houses of the town, Aberdeen, Miss.
Since 1990, he has been buying run-down historic houses in the decidedly sleepy town of 6,400, and fixing them up to rent or sell. So far he's bought 16, making him something of a force in the real estate market of an area where there is little new home building. But Mr. Brasfield, 43, has yet to turn a profit; Billbo Cribs, the company he set up for this endeavor in February, after years of ''doing it all by the seat of my pants,'' is $45,000 in the red, he said. 
 ''A business manager is looking at me going, 'What are you doing?' '' he said. ''But it's not about that to me, and I do believe that as sure as I am sitting here that I will come out winning.'' 
 He is trying to save Aberdeen ''one house at a time,'' he said.
 Although he goes by Billy B in the fashion industry, he is still known as Billy Brasfield here. He grew up in what he calls the ''mom-and-pop shop'' era, when doors were left unlocked, kids played outside without trouble and Main Street was booming. ''It was a fantasy place, like Mayberry R.F.D.,'' he said.
 But it did not feel like home to him. As a gay teenager who was hopeless at sports, he spent much of his time listening to a Chicago radio station and fantasizing about the lives of the people who called in to make requests. Then, toward the end of high school, a favorite teacher, Miss Curlee, led a school trip to New York, and he made it his business to get into Studio 54 and Xenon, clubs he knew about from television. 
 ''Here I was, this country hillbilly, with this accent beyond belief, and there was Cheryl Tiegs in a banquette with Christopher Reeve and they were probably making so much fun of me but I ended up in their banquette all night and I got an autograph from Cheryl on a cocktail napkin where she made her 'T' like a champagne glass with bubbles and I had it for years and years but from that moment I felt valid,'' Mr. Brasfield said in one long rush, still breathless at the memory. ''I never had felt valid in my town.''
 After two years of junior college, he made his way back to New York in 1983 and got a job at the cosmetics counter at Macy's. ''It was learn how to do it or get fired,'' he said. He promptly taught himself how to apply makeup, discovering a natural talent that was eventually spotted by a Vogue editor, who introduced him to an agent. Within two or three years, his work was appearing in magazines like Glamour and Vanity Fair.
 Meanwhile, Aberdeen, a once prosperous cotton port on the Tombigbee River in northeast Mississippi, about two hours south of Memphis, was in decline. Like other towns in the rural south, its economy was suffering from setbacks in the local agricultural industry, and smaller stores were being replaced by superstores. Every time he went back, he said, he saw ''the town dying another several degrees more, and more businesses gone and more and more houses in disrepair, empty and uninhabited.'' 
 After his father died in 1986, and he realized that his mother was never going to leave Aberdeen, he decided that in spite of his disaffection he wanted to do something to make it a better place to live, ''for the town and ultimately for her, too,'' he said. 
 Then, in 1990, when Mr. Brasfield was 27, his grandfather died and left $30,000 to each of the three Brasfield children. Mr. Brasfield's brother bought a Rolex and his sister bought land in Tupelo. Mr. Brasfield bought his first home, a plain 1940's cottage in Aberdeen that needed few repairs, which he sold without profit. ''It taught me that I could do it better the next time,'' he said. His next purchase, immediately after the sale, was a dilapidated cottage across the street from the first house, which he renovated and brought back to life.
 Aberdeen experienced several periods of growth since the early 1800's, so the town's historical architecture ranges from antebellum to contemporary. Some 250 buildings are currently on the National Register of Historic Places, a remarkably high number for the area. According to Kathy Seymour, the president of Aberdeen's Historic Preservation Commission, many of the oldest homes are in ''fairly good shape'' -- at least not in danger of falling to the ground, unlike the Victorian cottages Mr. Brasfield usually buys. 
 ''Down here we've been guilty of ignoring that type of architecture,'' said Jim Crosby, a retired banker and the de facto town historian, who lives in a restored 1875 Victorian that had been condemned by the city. Because the town has so many older homes, he said, houses that are only 100 years old or so have been neglected. 
 Even more frustrating to the preservationists is the lack of interest from many homeowners. ''It's the end of the bloodline for these families, where an estate is passed down for years,'' Mr. Brasfield said. Because there's little opportunity for young people in the town, he said, ''they leave, ending the traditions of these homes.'' Either that or ''they just see a money pit,'' he continued. ''They'd rather let them fall in than fix them up,'' said Ms. Seymour. ''I don't know why.''
 Organized community efforts to save buildings in Aberdeen have been slow to materialize -- unlike those in larger Mississippi towns such as Natchez, where many of the homes have been restored -- so Mr. Brasfield generally picks the ones that are most in need of saving, which can be had for around $10,000 to $15,000.
 ''I'm aware that I can see a house and go back six months later and the roof will have fallen in,'' he said. ''It happens that quickly.'' He spends between $10,000 and $25,000 restoring each house, with a local crew of about 10 to 15 workers. The renovations usually take between six months and a year to complete. 
 ''We gut them out and rebuild them from the stairs up,'' said Cecil Jones, who has worked as a carpenter and roofer on all of Mr. Brasfield's houses. ''We'll re-wall them, bead board them, doing it all like they were originally.''
 Mr. Brasfield's handiwork has earned him a reputation as something of a style guru. ''You can always tell his houses,'' said James Harris, who has lived in one of them for 10 years and calls them ''eye-catchers.''
 Mr. Brasfield's mother, Ruth Brasfield, is not surprised by his flair -- or his commitment.
 ''From a very small age he would build houses from Legos,'' said Mrs. Brasfield, who helps her son manage his properties. ''He's been creative all his life, and when he sees something that needs to be done he just does it.''
 In contrast to other older homes in the town, mostly painted white, Mr. Brasfield's end up with bold color combinations, decorative shutters and window boxes. ''Curb appeal is important to me,'' Mr. Brasfield said. ''It's about adorning the street.''
 Others have also started investing in Aberdeen. Dwight Stevens, an antiques auctioneer, purchased four buildings on Main Street and renovated an antebellum mansion, which he uses for his auctions. Marsha Monaghan Ballard, a local real estate developer, said she has recently sold homes to couples from California, Florida and Minnesota, and that ''2005 was the best year I ever had.'' 
 While there is now visible interest in Aberdeen, many people were initially skeptical about Mr. Brasfield's work. 
 ''I didn't think he was crazy, but it seemed like a pipe dream,'' said his manager, Brian Walls, who is also president of Chelsea Financial Services. ''When he bought four houses at one time I thought that was a little bit much, and then he went back and bought two more a few weeks later and I thought, 'This is getting a little ridiculous -- every time you go home it costs you $20,000 to $40,000.' '' Now, Mr. Walls said, he just tries to make sure that Mr. Brasfield spends wisely and turns his properties around quickly. 
 ''There's nothing that can't be fixed if I can afford it and it doesn't scare me,'' Mr. Brasfield said. ''With every tiny transition that's made there's a huge high for me. Like makeup -- it's the same feeling.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: MISSISSIPPI MAKEOVER -- Billy Brasfield, above, a celebrity makeup artist, is restoring the Victorian houses of Aberdeen, Miss. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
 TURNAROUND -- Billy Brasfield, left, escaped his hometown of Aberdeen, Miss., population 6,400, only to return on a one-man mission to save it. He buys derelict houses for $15,000 or less and, with crews of 10 to 15 people, below, spends up to $25,000 restoring them. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETICS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MUSIC (70%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (70%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (60%); FASHION & APPAREL (50%) 

PERSON: KATIE COURIC (56%); BEYONCE KNOWLES (56%) Billy Brasfield; Isabel C Gonzalez

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%) Aberdeen (Miss)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



272 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Urban Crunch, and Its Global Implications

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

DATELINE: VENICE, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
Even architects like to let their hair down once in a while, and the Venice Biennale offers the ideal setting. Between leisurely drinks and gossip, architects stroll over to the Castello Gardens or the Arsenale to catch up on what their brethren are up to in other parts of the world.
 The big surprise for those who made it to the weekend opening of the 10th International Architecture Exhibition was that it was so hard to find the architecture. Organized by Richard Burdett in the cavernous, decaying rooms of the Arsenale, the core of the show is a sprawling, ambitious look at the evolution of cities -- Barcelona, Mumbai, Cairo, Caracas -- in an era when the global population is pouring into urban areas at a fantastic rate. Mr. Burdett packs his exhibition with eye-popping statistics, painting a picture of emerging megacities in which poverty is as stunning a feature as density or scale. 
The show has its heart in the right place. Yet its exhaustive level of analysis leads to a fairly predicable set of solutions, giving the exhibition a dry bureaucratic feel that sucks away the excitement. That sense is reinforced in the national pavilions representing the 50 participating countries, where even the liveliest work could have been designed in the 1960's or 70's. One is left with the impression that contemporary architecture is trapped in a prolonged slumber, which is pretty dumbfounding given the recent explosion of creative energy in the profession.
 What the show provides, in place of inspired architecture, is a window on a dystopian future. Megacities like Cairo, Mumbai, Mexico City and Dhaka, Bangladesh, have populations in excess of 10 million each, and some are expected to reach 30 million over the next few decades. Fanning out in rings of crowded squalid slums, such cities often cannot assure their poorest inhabitants decent sanitation and drinkable water.
 Mr. Burdett spent a year preparing for the show, harvesting statistics and sponsoring conferences on urban problems. Among the results are towering white models resembling stalagmites that chart the density patterns of various cities. Simple and direct, the models challenge some cherished stereotypes. Los Angeles, a city mocked for its suburban sprawl, turns out to have roughly the same density as London. Barcelona, hailed as a miracle of innovative urban planning, is nearly as dense as Shanghai, which for years was derided for its congestion.
 In subsequent galleries, the show unfolds with big glossy photographs of oppressive urban scenes, from the sepulchral towers of Shanghai to the deadening uniformity of Johannesburg's gated communities. 
 The talk in Venice is that the Biennale constitutes the world's biggest coffee-table book, although the photos and text are hardly rhapsodic. Mumbai, formerly Bombay, built on several islands that were joined through land reclamation projects, is sliced by a north-south corridor inhabited mostly by the rich, with the poor dwelling in slums on either side. There are more prosaic lessons too. Berlin's initial burst of growth after reunification has stalled, but that makes it easier for artists to find cheap housing. Forty percent of Tokyo is built on landfill; 80 percent of its citizens use public transportation. And so on.
 Bits of architecture are sprinkled among the photographs and statistics. The ''soft grid'' of Zaha Hadid's master plan for a cultural and residential district on the east bank of Istanbul, shown on a small video screen, is conceived as an organic mass whose undulating surface has been carved up to replicate the roadways and courtyards of the surrounding city. A series of sleekly modern schools designed by young architects function as havens for teenagers struggling to survive the ghettos of Sao Paolo.
 But the architecture is engulfed by the statistics. There are no models of actual buildings and few technical drawings. The architectural designs, in many cases presented on small video monitors, with one image following another and no opportunity to pause and study, are treated as afterthoughts, as if architects had little to contribute to the conversation.
 This might have felt right in the decades after Modernism let out its last dying wheeze and architects were timidly licking their wounds in the sanctuary of academia. Many architects avoided sweeping urban issues altogether, preferring to focus on smaller projects where they could still make a difference.
 That is no longer the case. As the public takes a greater interest in architecture, the profession has regained some of its confidence. The booming growth of cities like Beijing and Dubai has given them relatively free rein to pursue the kind of crazy large-scale urban experiments that were impossible only a decade ago. 
 There is a show to be made that raises challenging questions about the architect's role in that process. Are the new urban megaprojects, for instance, viable alternatives to standard gated communities or are they hyper-modern islands that serve the same privileged class?
 But this is not that show. The exhibition dead-ends in a room wallpapered with a list of practical solutions for improving urban life. Public space is vital to societal tolerance. Efficient public transportation reduces commuter time. Green is good.
 The national pavilions are not much more uplifting. Over the weekend considerable excitement was generated by the French pavilion, a throwback to the values of 1968. Behind the pavilion's stone facade, steel scaffolding tunnels up through a space where fresh-faced architects sleep in a hive of rooms and cook for visitors strolling in and out of the gardens. 
 ''It is about the joy of occupation,'' said Patrick Bouchain, the installation's designer, as if he were channeling the uprisings in which students staged sit-ins inside administration buildings.
 Similarly, Bernard Tschumi's project for the outskirts of Santo Domingo, on view at the Swiss Pavilion, conjured images of the bubble diagrams favored by American corporate firms in the 1950's. He has conceived a series of elliptical buildings scattered across a natural landscape; ''fields of intensity,'' Mr. Tschumi calls them. The structures are designed with different degrees of porosity, depending on whether they are intended for housing, shopping or offices. 
 He has also sought to provide a home for thousands of squatters, allowing them to occupy a corner of the landscape that creates an uneasy tension with the bubblelike areas, occupied by the project's business elite. 
 At least Mr. Tschumi had the courage to put his convictions out there. More typical is the United States pavilion, which this year shifted its focus from ground zero to New Orleans. The exhibition culminates in updated versions of shotgun houses, a facile reflection of historically sensitive reconstruction efforts.
 By contrast the Austrian Pavilion houses a re-creation of Frederick Kiesler's sublime 1925 ''City in Space,'' a three-dimensional white grid of intersecting planes and beams that occupies an entire gallery, its intersecting lines extending toward infinity. 
 ''What are our houses but coffins towering up from the earth into the air?'' Mr. Kiesler asked in 1925. ''Cemeteries have more air for the skeletons of their dead than our cities for the lungs of their living.''
 His solution was to imagine a world of free-floating planes, where the boundaries between people dissolved into abstractions, lines drawn through the air. In essence the suffocating boxes that sheltered human beings for centuries have broken free of their moorings and splintered apart.
 The work feels as exhilarating today as when he first presented it. More than anything else in the show, it's a potent commentary on the claustrophobic urban settings of today. But it also reminds us of what good architects do: optimists by trade, they give concrete form to a future of their own imagining, transporting us to an elevated plane of existence.
 In Venice this goal was somehow lost.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The 10th International Architecture Exhibition takes a bold look at the evolution of cities like Barcelona, Mumbai and Cairo with rapidly increasing populations. (Photo by Manuel Silvestri/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Three-dimensional models showing the density patterns of various cities help challenge stereotypes. (Photo by Luca Bruno/Associated Press)
 Inside the French pavilion at the Venice Biennale, architects keep busy while entertaining visitors. (Photo by Manuel Silvestri/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg, E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITIES (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (88%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); SUBURBS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); LAND RECLAMATION (60%) Architecture; Reviews; Venice Biennale

PERSON: Nicolai Ouroussoff

GEOGRAPHIC: BARCELONA, SPAIN (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



273 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Mambo and Hip-Hop: Two Bronx Sounds, One Sense of Dignity 

BYLINE: By JON PARELES

 BODY:
Neighborhood pride ties together ''From Mambo to Hip-Hop: A South Bronx Tale,'' a documentary being shown tonight in New York at 9 on WNET as part of the ''Voces'' series on Latin Americans. 
 ''From Mambo to Hip-Hop'' dances through the history of a borough that nurtured two musical movements: the mambo that evolved into salsa, and the hip-hop that arose from the most desperate days of the South Bronx. Produced by Elena Martinez and Steve Zeitlin, who are principals in the New York folklore group City Lore, and directed by Henry Chalfant, a longtime chronicler of the South Bronx who collaborated on the early-1980's documentary ''Style Wars,'' ''From Mambo'' rushes by, driven by rhythms that change through the decades. 
Mambo and hip-hop are the kind of melting-pot phenomena that New York heats and stirs. Their roots are African, refracted through the Caribbean and the city. In their beginnings both styles also reflected, and defied, the ghetto status and economic deterioration of the South Bronx. 
 Mambo was visceral, sophisticated music that emerged after World War II as Cuban styles were picked up by Puerto Ricans who mingled with jazz musicians, and the Bronx became a night life mecca. The groundbreaking big band led by Machito was named the Afro-Cubans, flaunting the fact that its musicians were black, and it traded ideas with the era's beboppers. 
 The documentary has exultant vintage segments from the 1950's heyday of mambo with musicians and especially dancers who shook everything from head to toe while conga drums and timbales crackled with Cuban rhythms and New York aggression. A younger generation of musicians -- now elders, like Eddie Palmieri and Ray Barretto (who died in February), who are interviewed -- met playing stickball and grew up on mambo, going on to streamline and sharpen it into salsa. 
 ''Salsa could have only happened in New York and in a place like the Bronx because of the diversity of the people that were playing it,'' explains Willie Colon, the bandleader who has become a political figure in the Bronx. ''It's an inclusion and a reconciliation of all the things that we are here, and the Bronx, and the music that we made together. We not only wanted to make music; we had a goal. We wanted to convey a social and political message, and salsa was very important for that because it was our voice.''
 But Latinos' rising expectations met neglect and worse in the Bronx. The documentary shows burned-out buildings, gang fights and other factors -- like the Cross Bronx Expressway, which razed and divided neighborhoods -- that made the South Bronx a symbol of urban ruin in the 1970's. But in the wreckage, hip-hop was being created. Public parks and abandoned buildings were turned into clubs as gangs sublimated rumbles into battles of words and break-dance competitions.
 Hip-hop wasn't invented by Latinos (and the documentary fails to note the strong Jamaican element in early hip-hop), but they were still in the neighborhoods, and they took to it quickly. Conga drumbeats sent break-dancers into motion, some of them reviving the most flamboyant moves of the old mambo dancers. Even when much of the South Bronx was rubble, Afro-Latin alliances were made and cultural memory held strong.

From Mambo to Hip-Hop
A South Bronx Tale

WNET, New York, tonight at 9. (Broadcast later on other PBS stations; check local listings.)

Directed by Henry Chalfant; Elena Martinez and Steve Zeitlin, producers. Produced by City Lore.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The D.J. KaySlay performs his art in a Bronx playground in 1982. (Photo by Henry Chalfant)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); MUSIC (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); FOLKLORE (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (76%); DANCERS (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%); GANGS (50%) Television; Reviews

PERSON: Jon Pareles; Henry Chalfant

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); PUERTO RICO (79%); CUBA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



274 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 851 words

PERSON: Tyron Garner

HEADLINE: Tyron Garner, 39, Plaintiff in Sodomy Case

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Tyron Garner, one of two plaintiffs in the Supreme Court case in 2003 that overruled a Texas sodomy law in the broadest possible terms, effectively making homosexual relations a basic civil right, died Monday in Houston. He was 39.
 The cause was complications of meningitis, said his brother Darrell.
Mr. Garner and John G. Lawrence, were arrested between 10:30 and 11 p.m. on Sept. 17, 1998, and charged with violating the Texas Homosexual Conduct Law by a sheriff's deputy who said he had witnessed them in the act. 
 The men pleaded not guilty at their arraignment but later changed the pleas to no contest at the urging of lawyers eager to challenge the constitutionality of the law, not the factual basis of the arrests.
 The men were represented throughout the case by the Lambda Legal Defense and Education Fund, which defends gay men and lesbians.
 Their convictions were overturned by a three-judge panel of a state appeals court and then upheld, 7 to 2, by the full court. After the state's highest court rejected the case, the men appealed to the Supreme Court.
 On June 26, 2003, the court overruled the sodomy law, which it had upheld in 1986. In the opinion he wrote for the 6-to-3 majority, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said the earlier interpretation ''demeans the lives of homosexual persons.''
 Justice Kennedy said that gay men and lesbians were ''entitled to respect for their private lives'' and that the state could not ''control their destiny by making their private sexual conduct a crime.''
 At that time, Suzanne Goldberg, a law professor at Rutgers, said in an interview with The New York Times that the case, Lawrence v. Texas, ''removes the reflexive assumption of gay people's inferiority.''
 Tyron Garner, who actually preferred the spelling Tyrone, his brother said, was born on July 10, 1967, and did not reveal much about his early life. He was unemployed at the time of his arrest and a year later sold barbecue at a street stand in Houston. His criminal record included two convictions for assault in 1995 and 2000, The Dallas Morning News reported in 2003. 
 The men's lawyers consistently shielded them from scrutiny, denying requests for interviews. Their lawyer in Houston, Mitchell Kitrane, said in an interview with Dale Carpenter in The Michigan Law Review that they were ''on the quiet side, passive type individuals.'' 
 Neither had prior involvement with gay-rights groups.
 They were introduced to each other by Robert R. Eubanks, with whom Mr. Garner was romantically involved when he was arrested. Mr. Carpenter's interviews showed that Mr. Garner and Mr. Lawrence were occasional sexual partners, not in a committed relationship.
 On the day of the arrests, the three men drank margaritas and ate dinner at a Mexican restaurant. They had spent the afternoon moving Mr. Lawrence's new furniture into his apartment and planned to move the old furniture to Mr. Eubanks's place the next morning. 
 Shortly before 10:30, an unidentified man called the Harris County Sheriff's Department and told the dispatcher that ''a black male was going crazy in the apartment and he was armed with a gun.'' 
 The caller turned out to be Mr. Eubanks, who told deputies he was jealous of Mr. Garner, with whom he argued that evening and had fought physically in the past.
 Mr. Garner and Mr. Lawrence were then alone together in the apartment, fueling Mr. Eubanks's rage.
 Mr. Eubanks stood at the door when the police arrived and directed them to go inside, where, he said, a man was threatening neighbors with a gun. No gun was found, but the police entered with trepidation. Inside, a still-mysterious man on a telephone directed them to a bedroom in the back.
 They shouted out several times and entered the bedroom. They said Mr. Garner and Mr. Lawrence were engaged in sex. One deputy said they continued obliviously for as long as a minute. Another deputy said they stopped immediately.
 Why the deputies enforced the sodomy law, a rarity, is unclear, wrote Mr. Carpenter, who said he doubted that the officers actually saw any sex. He dismissed widespread speculation that the event was staged as a vehicle to test the law, saying that among other reasons, the men were too inarticulate for appearances in the news media.
 Mr. Carpenter, a professor at the University of Minnesota Law School, does theorize that possibly homophobic deputies fabricated and lied about the evidence, confident that their version, and not the defendants', would be believed. 
 Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Garner paid fines of $125 for violating the sodomy law, a Class C misdemeanor, plus $141.25 in court costs. Mr. Eubanks was convicted of making a false report and spent two weeks in jail. He was beaten to death in 2000 in a case that was never solved.
 In addition to his brother Darrell, of Houston, Mr. Garner is survived by seven brothers and two sisters.
 Mr. Garner took quiet pride in his place in history.
 ''I don't really want to be a hero,'' he said in an interview with The Houston Chronicle in 2004. ''But I want to tell other gay people, 'Be who you are, and don't be afraid.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tyron Garner in 1998. (Photo by Michael Stravato/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); DEATHS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); APPEALS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); JUDGES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MENINGITIS (72%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); SHERIFFS (71%); RESTAURANTS (60%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (56%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: LAMBDA LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (56%)

ANTHONY KENNEDY (58%) Douglas Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



275 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: As Parents Go Unpaid, Gaza Children Go Hungry

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: KHAN YUNIS, Gaza Strip, Sept. 12 

 BODY:
For the last week, Zidan Abu Reziq has been sleeping outside, next to his plantings on a small square of sand he expropriated.
 The Abu Reziqs, like many of the large, destitute refugee families in this shrapneled, tumbledown slum, need to plant to eat. They took the land and planted it with vegetables, an investment of about $50, most of the money that the United Nations Relief and Works Agency gave them to buy school uniforms for the children.
Zidan's wife, Tamam, admits her 51-year-old husband sleeps with his plants because he needs to protect their investment in the lawless chaos of Gaza, where his own small theft of land, 20 square yards that belongs to the government, is dwarfed by the huge expropriations by gangs and families and militia groups that have taken over much of the best land left behind when the Israelis pulled out their settlers a year ago.
 It is difficult to exaggerate the economic collapse of Gaza, with the Palestinian Authority cut off from funds by Israel, the United States and the European Union after Hamas won the legislative elections on Jan. 25. 
 Since then, the authority has paid most of its 73,000 employees here, nearly 40 percent of Gaza's work force, only 1.5 months' salary, resulting in a severe economic depression and growing signs of malnutrition, especially among the poorest children. 
 Few here are using the United Nations grants for school. The Abu Reziqs are carefully investing the rest of their relief money. More than $20 went straight to the local grocer, Tamam said, as a down payment on the credit extended to the family, which still owes more than $200. About $11 went to buy the ingredients, including two chickens, for the couscous dish that Tamam and her daughter, Fatma, 29, are making early this morning, kneading relief agency flour in big aluminum bowls, pouring in relief agency oil, rubbing the flour over a screen to get the right consistency.
 The result will serve 15 people, Tamam said. ''We want to feed the people who helped us with the land,'' she said, and some of their neighbors, even worse off than they.
 Gaza's situation has worsened since Palestinian gunmen, including those from Hamas, killed two Israeli soldiers and captured a third on June 25. Israel reinvaded Gaza, and has since killed more than 240 Palestinians, many of them in gun battles.
 An Israeli airstrike on Gaza's only electrical power plant means that most Gazans now get only 7 to 12 hours a day of electricity, at unpredictable hours, with running water largely dependent on electric pumps.
 Fishermen, now prevented from going more than a few hundred yards from shore by the Israeli Navy, are using hand-thrown nets from the beach to catch a few sprats and sardines.
 Jan Egeland, the United Nations under secretary for humanitarian affairs, said that Gaza was ''a ticking time bomb.'' The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development warned Tuesday that the economy could shrink next year to the level of 15 years ago, and unemployment could rise to over 50 percent. The World Bank expects gross domestic product to decline by 27 percent this year.
 These pressures have forced Hamas to agree to a proposal by the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah, for a national unity government, led by the Hamas prime minister, Ismail Haniya, which could allow Israel and the West to resume transferring funds and aid.
 The Abu Reziqs are hopeful, like many Palestinians, that a new government will be better, but they are reluctant to blame Hamas, which, Zidan said, ''was never given a chance to succeed.'' Still, it is unclear whether the new government, when there is one, will be seen to meet Western demands that it recognize Israel, forswear violence and accept previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements. 
 Hamas promised security in its victorious election campaign. But it has failed at that, said Hamdi Shaqqura of the Palestinian Center for Human Rights. ''There is security chaos and no respect for law,'' he said, and a prime reason is the involvement of the police and security forces, many of them from Fatah, in the lawlessness, and the constant clashes with militia and gunmen affiliated with Hamas.
 ''People who are supposed to protect the law are the people who break it,'' he said, ''and no one is brought to justice.'' For this chaos, he said, ''I must blame the Palestinian Authority,'' not Israel.
 Tamam, 49, recalls a near riot here when cooking gas was in short supply and there was a delivery of canisters. The police were called, she said. ''They took canisters for themselves and then left,'' she said, shrugging.
 Zidan used to work in the nearby Israeli settlement of Neve Dekalim. But after the outbreak of the second intifada in 2000, he was not allowed to enter the settlement. Now, Zidan is lucky to get three days a month of casual construction work. 
 His son Muhammad is a Palestinian Authority policeman who is supposed to make $340 a month, but who has been paid only $500 since Feb. 1. Now, Fatma says, ''he spends little time at home, because he hasn't a shekel in his pocket, and he's ashamed.'' 
 The small welfare check Fatma, a divorced mother, used to get has stopped coming, and the women's group for which she used to do embroidery has collapsed with the death of its leader.
 Tamam's son Suleiman, 20, watches television, until the electricity suddenly dies. ''I'd like to have any job,'' he said simply. ''Any job at all.''
 The United Nations is now helping to feed 830,000 people in Gaza, an increase of 100,000 since March, but to receive the relief agency's aid they have to be classified as refugees, who make up 70 percent of Gaza's 1.4 million people. The increase is largely refugees who work for the government and did not need assistance before. 
 The World Food Program helps to feed the poorest of the nonrefugees and now has 220,000 beneficiaries, an increase of 25 percent since March, which includes 136,000 people considered to be the ''chronic poor,'' who are not getting previous welfare benefits from the Authority.
 ''We have a complete deterioration of the economic situation in Gaza,'' said Kirstie Campbell of the agency. ''People can't afford the basic things.'' Seventy percent of Gazans now depend on the United Nations for food aid.
 In northern Gaza, in Beit Lahiya, where Israeli troops fought Palestinian gunmen during July, Atemad Abu Leilah, 33, lives in a hovel with her 11 children and her handicapped husband. He used to get $68 a month from the welfare ministry, but has received nothing for four months, she said.
 She is a not a refugee, so is ineligible for refugee aid and like many here, gets by on casual work and the charity of neighbors.
 She taps into wires in the street to take electricity illegally, and she has not bought her children school uniforms for the new school year. ''I can't afford to buy them notebooks,'' she said.
 She feeds her children greens, herbs, lentils and eggplant, and sometimes gets flour given by the World Food Program. ''Forget about meat,'' she said. ''The last time we had chicken was a month ago.''
 Her relative, Ghalia Abu Leilah, 60, came by with a pot of yogurt she bought for her husband, who is dying of cancer, with money from a neighbor, she said. 
 A year ago, when the Israelis left, ''We were very happy,'' Atemad Abu Leilah said. ''I voted for Hamas, for reform and change and improvement. But now I look at my kids and I regret my vote.''
 Nearby, stalls sell flour and sunflower oil given as aid by the refugee agency and the World Food Program, most of it earmarked as gifts of the European Union and the United States, and labeled ''not for sale.'' Iyad Baaker, who works at one stall, said that people needed cash, so sold the aid. 
 In Khan Yunis, Fatma Abu Reziq seemed distracted and sad, and brushed away a question about her daughter, Aya, 9. Later, she explained.
 A week ago, her former husband took Aya away. He said it was easier to feed Aya himself than find the cash for child support.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Zidan Abu Reziq preparing dinner by candlelight and flashlight for his family in the Gaza Strip because of a lack of electricity, a recurrent problem. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Zidan Abu Reziq, with his grandchildren, walking amid the remains of a factory he helped build in the former Israeli settlement of Neve Dekalim. (Photo by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. A17)Map of the Gaza Strip highlighting Kan Yunis: Khan Yunis is home to large and destitute refugee families. (pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BEACHES (78%); MALNUTRITION (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); REFUGEES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); NUTRITION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AL FATAH (69%); ELECTIONS (69%); SHOOTINGS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TRENDS (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (52%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Children and Youth; Food; Diet and Nutrition; Government Employees; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); HAMAS (82%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%) United Nations; United Nations World Food Program; Palestinian Authority; Hamas; Fatah

PERSON: Steven Erlanger; Zidan Abu Reziq; Mahmoud (Pres) Abbas

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%) Israel; Gaza Strip; Khan Yunis (Gaza Strip); Israel; Israel

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



276 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

In Iraq's Grim Capital, Bodies Lie Everywhere
 Nearly 90 Iraqis were killed or found dead in Baghdad, an Interior Ministry official said, making for a grim day even amid the intense sectarian violence. Of the 60 bodies found, nearly all were shot in the head, had clear signs of torture or were blindfolded, bound or gagged. But American military officials, who have been challenging body counts, disputed the number found. 
 At Saddam Hussein's trial, a prosecutor accused the judge of letting defendants ''treat the chamber as a political forum.'' PAGE A10 

Wolfowitz Draws Criticism
 Critics say that Paul D. Wolfowitz, president of the World Bank, is taking an approach to fighting corruption in poor countries that is interfering with the bank's central mission. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Spring Fashions Take Shape
 The American sportswear of Michael Kors, left, and the body-skimming designs of Narciso Rodriguez were the popular shows midway through Fashion Week. A review by Cathy Horyn. PAGE B7
 So far on the runways, four trends have come into focus. No. 1: a correction of the unsexy layered looks of fall. THURSDAY STYLES, PAGE G1

Ann Richards Dies
 Former Gov. Ann W. Richards of Texas, who galvanized the 1988 Democratic National Convention with her tart keynote speech and was later upset by a challenger named George W. Bush, was 73. PAGE D8 

Wage Rules Fail in Chicago
 The first effort in the nation to impose minimum wage regulations on big-box stores unraveled in Chicago, as the City Council fell short of overriding a veto by the mayor. PAGE A18

Don't Ask, Don't Tell, Again
 Gay rights groups are making the biggest push in a decade to repeal the policy known as ''don't ask, don't tell,'' which bars openly gay men and lesbians from the military. PAGE A18

Bob Dylan, Rebel
 Many lyrics on Bob Dylan's latest album, ''Modern Times,'' bear strong echoes to verse by Henry Timrod, a Confederate poet. THE ARTS, PAGE E1

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Rahav Segev for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Robyn Beck/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); VETO (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); FASHION DESIGN (73%); HEAD INJURIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (69%); MAYORS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); CITIES (64%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%); MINIMUM WAGE (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); LGBT RIGHTS (63%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (51%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (50%); RETAILERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



277 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: From Author, Help for White-Collar Workers

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
On a recent book tour, Barbara Ehrenreich, the author of ''Nickel and Dimed,'' was nearly brought to tears when an information technology marketer told her of growing so desperate after being laid off that she took a job as a janitor.
 At another reading, a woman complained of an economy so volatile that she did not think of jobs anymore, but of intermittent income streams from tasks like house-sitting and designing Web sites. 
Inspired by such tales, Ms. Ehrenreich has started an organization called United Professionals to help white-collar workers, be they unemployed, uninsured, downsized, stressed out or merely anxious.
 ''I thought, Isn't there some way that people in this situation can come together, and the model I had in the back of my head was the early women's movement in the 1970's,'' said Ms. Ehrenreich, whose ''Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America,'' published in 2001, sold more than one million copies. ''Just the fact of coming together and exchanging stories was very empowering, making you feel you're not alone, and taking you out of that feeling of shame that whatever happened to you must be your fault.''
 Based in Washington, the group has received $100,000 in seed money from the Service Employees International Union.
 Bill Holland, the chairman of United Professionals and a former human resources executive at Accenture, the consulting firm, sees the group having chapters in half the 50 states within a year. But some co-founders say the group will grow fastest through the Internet.
 If and when the group achieves critical mass, Ms. Ehrenreich sees it lobbying Congress just as AARP does, probably for universal health insurance and for requiring companies to provide severance when they lay off workers.
 ''Our employer-based health insurance system doesn't make any sense,'' she said. ''It may have made sense years ago to have health insurance attached to one's job, but nowadays one's job is not attached to you. So when you lose your job, there goes your health insurance.''
 United Professionals may seem a bit like a group of writers eager to promote their books.
 The group's directors and advisers include Mr. Holland, author of ''Are There any Good Jobs Left?''; Jared Bernstein, author of ''All Together Now: Common Sense for a Fair Economy''; and Tamara Draut, author of ''Strapped: Why America's 20- and 30-Somethings Can't Get Ahead.''
 The authors said they shared Ms. Ehrenreich's frustrations about not being able to steer white-collar readers to a group that could help them. 
 With this new group, Ms. Ehrenreich is changing her focus from ''Nickel and Dimed,'' her first-person account of working as a waitress, hotel maid and Wal-Mart sales clerk. 
 Her newest offering, ''Bait and Switch,'' focused on the tribulations of white-collar workers and on the consultants -- she likened many to snake oil salesmen -- who advise laid-off workers how to get back on their feet. ''Bait and Switch'' helped give her the idea of creating a white-collar movement.
 United Professionals plans to charge dues of 10 cents a day, $36.50 a year. Beyond mutual support and lobbying, the group hopes to find ways to provide members with legal and financial advice and affordable health insurance.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The writer Barbara Ehrenreich has founded United Professionals. (Photo by David Scull for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); WRITERS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); LITERATURE (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); LOBBYING (69%) Labor; Books and Literature; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Unemployment; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (54%) United Professionals (Orgn)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (56%) Barbara Ehrenreich; Steven Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



278 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Most Mideast Leaders Are Angry About U.S. in Iraq, Annan Says 

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
Many Middle East leaders say the American-led invasion of Iraq and its consequences have been catastrophic for the region, Secretary General Kofi Annan said Wednesday, describing conversations during his recent 11-day trip. 
 ''Honestly, most of the leaders I spoke to felt that the invasion of Iraq and its aftermath has been a real disaster for them,'' he said. ''They believe it has destabilized the region.''
 Mr. Annan was commenting at a news conference about his trip, which was intended to shore up support for the Security Council resolution that ended the war in Lebanon between Israel and Hezbollah.
 He said the officials he met were of two minds whether the Americans should leave Iraq. 
 ''Many leaders felt the Americans should stay until the situation improves and that, having created the problem, they cannot walk away,'' he said. ''Then you have another school of thought, particularly in Iran, that believes that the presence of the U.S. is a problem and that the U.S. should leave.'' 
 He added that the Iranians had offered to help the Americans leave, but, asked to elaborate, he said, ''I didn't get into details as to how they intend to help.''
 Taking issue with Mr. Annan's comments, Tony Snow, the White House press secretary, said at his daily briefing: ''If you take a look at what's gone on in the region, you have attempts to establish democracies in Lebanon, you have an attempt to establish a democracy in the Palestinian areas, you have democracies now up and gaining their footing in Afghanistan and Iraq. And those are developments that are positive. 
 ''Now, I'm not going to engage in further disputation with the secretary general of the United Nations, but we disagree with the characterization.''
 Citing United Nations efforts to help in Iraq, Mr. Annan said 33 nations had signed up to attend a Sept. 18 meeting of the Iraq Compact, a venture by the United Nations and Iraq that seeks to build a coalition to help develop the economic, political and security sectors.
 Mr. Annan acknowledged that he had had differences with the Bush administration over Iraq ''from the beginning,'' but he said relations were now ''very good.''
 ''I work very well with the secretary of state and with the president himself, and on key and important issues we are able to discuss, sometimes agree, often agree, and there are times that perforce we disagree, and I think everyone has to respect that,'' he said.
 He said his situation was less secure on Capitol Hill, where some members of Congress had accused him of mismanagement and of tolerating corruption, and at least one senator, Norm Coleman, a Minnesota Republican, had persistently called on him to resign.
 Mr. Annan, who retires on Dec. 31 at the end of his second five-year term, said Iraq -- which was invaded in March 2003 without United Nations backing -- had presented him with his greatest crisis in office.
 ''I think it's marked the organization, and everybody else as well,.'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); HEZBOLLAH (70%); CORRUPTION (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); HEZBOLLAH (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) United Nations

PERSON: NORM COLEMAN (58%) Kofi A (Sec Gen) Annan

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); LEBANON (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Iran; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



279 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Commission Is Set to Discuss a Possible Increase in Taxi Fares

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
The Taxi and Limousine Commission is to begin considering today a plan that would increase taxi fares by as much as 11 percent, as well as the creation of a flat fare of $45 from Manhattan to Kennedy Airport, to mirror the fare for trips in the opposite direction, the commission chairman said yesterday. 
 The taxi fare was last raised, by 26 percent, in May 2004 after eight years without a change.
Matthew W. Daus, the chairman of the commission, said the plan was part of a strategy to institute moderate increases every few years. The idea is to keep the taxi industry on a sound financial footing while avoiding very large fare increases.
 The commission now aims to ''keep our eye on the fare so that we can make the changes not in one fell swoop, but over time in a more equitable way,'' Mr. Daus said. 
 He said that drivers were still being ''adequately compensated'' under the 2004 increase, but that an analysis of the fare structure showed that the so-called wait time fare, charged when a cab is sitting in traffic, is far below the rate in other major cities. New York's rate is 20 cents a minute, while no other major city has a wait time rate below 33 cents a minute, he said.
 That can result in unpredictable fluctuations in drivers' income on days when they get caught repeatedly in heavy traffic, he said. 
 ''Quite frankly, it's an inequity,'' Mr. Daus said. At the commission's monthly board meeting today, Mr. Daus said, commissioners will be presented with a report on the issue, including a recommendation to double the wait time rate to 40 cents a minute. 
 That would translate into an increase of about 11 percent in the overall fare.
 Mindful of the anger often stirred by talk of fare increases, Mr. Daus was careful to say that the panel was not poised to take action. 
 ''It's going to be discussed,'' he said. ''It's not an official proposal.''
 He said the next step could be to schedule a hearing for public comment on a fare increase, possibly in late October. 
 ''The industry is strong,'' he said. ''We want to make sure it stays strong. We don't want to be behind the eight ball and be dealing with a situation where we have to play catch-up.''
 The suggestion for a flat-rate fare from Manhattan to Kennedy is perhaps less controversial. 
 A flat rate from the airport to all parts of Manhattan, currently set at $45, was instituted in 1996, and Mr. Daus said it had been extremely popular. 
 ''One way it's one fare; it should be the same fare going back,'' he said. ''It's more consumer-friendly. If you ask most people, I think they'd say that's what it is anyway. It makes it easy for tourists.'' 
 He said $45 represented the ''mid range'' of fares from all parts of Manhattan.
 ''It's not going to mean much in terms of economics for the consumer or the driver, but it's going to make life easier for someone in the back seat of a cab,'' Mr. Daus said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (96%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%) Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: Taxi and Limousine Commission (NYC)

PERSON: William Neuman; Matthew W (Chairman) Daus

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



280 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Extreme Tuberculosis

 BODY:
Tuberculosis is outrunning us. In the last few months, 53 patients in the South African province of KwaZulu-Natal were found to have a form of the disease resistant to enough existing drugs that it is virtually incurable. All but one of those patients have died. Airborne and deadly, extensively drug-resistant TB is a nightmare disease. It has been found worldwide, including in the United States. 
 The accelerated pace of resistance comes from the world's neglect of tuberculosis, which is best cured with a cocktail of four drugs, with medicines taken daily for six to nine months. But most patients who start this difficult regime fail to complete it, leading to resistance. Of the 9.5 million new TB cases globally every year, about 425,000 of them are resistant to the standard medicines.
While a course of these drugs costs as little as $11, the medicines needed to cure resistant TB can cost up to a thousand times as much, can have harmful side effects, and must be taken for as much as two years. The really bad news, however, is that even these backup drugs are starting to fail, as they have in KwaZulu-Natal. Globally, about 6 percent of resistant TB cases are also resistant to second-line drugs -- 15 percent in the former Soviet Union.
 The development of antibiotics had allowed wealthy nations to dismiss TB as a disease of the past. But H.I.V. and AIDS have changed that calculus. In Africa, active TB cases are rising by 4 percent a year, largely because H.I.V. activates latent TB infection. TB is the leading cause of AIDS-related deaths. Every patient tested in the KwaZulu-Natal study was H.I.V.-positive -- and more than a quarter of those who died were taking antiretroviral therapy.
 African health officials gathered in South Africa last week to discuss extreme tuberculosis, but they are hobbled by the world's indifference. It is crucial, for example, to find out quickly where else extremely resistant TB lurks. But surveillance in Africa is poor, there have been no new diagnostic tests invented in the past 50 years, and the tests in use can take months. Efforts to make sure patients complete their treatment reach less than a third of TB victims. New drugs are needed to replace current ones, which are all at least 40 years old. But TB drug research had dried up until a few years ago. 
 A group called the Global Alliance for TB Drug Development has six compounds in the pipeline, but a treatment for extremely resistant TB is not likely before 2012. Money for clinical trials would speed things. But donors have always slighted tuberculosis. According to a new report by Results International, an advocacy group, the World Bank spent only $3.5 million directly on TB in Africa in 2005. The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation are big donors, but much more is needed. Stinginess created this problem. Generosity is needed to fix it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUBERCULOSIS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); AIDS & HIV (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (86%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (79%); ANTIBIOTICS (79%); DRUG RESISTANCE (78%); ANTIVIRALS (77%); CLINICAL TRIALS (77%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (77%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%) Tuberculosis; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Research; Editorials

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%) Africa

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



281 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Overhauls Proposed In Benefits For Jobless 

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
The nation's unemployment insurance system, which has hardly changed since its inception in 1935, should be revamped to aid more workers displaced by a transforming economy, economists said this week as they released overhaul proposals. 
 Currently, because of tight state eligibility requirements and because a growing number of workers do not have long-term, full-time jobs, unemployment insurance is paid to just over a third of those who are laid off, government data show, and coverage is less likely among the lower-income workers who most need it.
''The nation's unemployment insurance program is seriously out of date, given the changes over the last 70 years in the U.S. labor market,'' said Lori G. Kletzer, an economist at the University of California, Santa Cruz. Dr. Kletzer and Howard Rosen of the Institute for International Economics in Washington are the authors of one of two proposals for revamping the system that were released on Tuesday by the Brookings Institution in Washington. 
 The system was intended to provide workers with half their former wages during temporary periods between jobs, though it seldom reaches that level today. In 2004, some 8.8 million workers who qualified received an average weekly benefit of $262, often for up to 26 weeks, though benefits varied by state. The costs, which totaled $41 billion that year, are paid by federal and state payroll taxes paid mainly by employers. 
 Benefits are seldom available to the self-employed, to those working intermittently or to many of the lowest-paid workers. 
 At the same time, Dr. Kletzer and Dr. Rosen said, the nature of unemployment is changing. In the last six years, despite lower overall rates of unemployment, the average period of joblessness for laid-off workers was 16 weeks, compared with 12 weeks in the 1970's. 
 Because of globalization and changes in the economic structure, more workers are forced to change industries and a significant minority take jobs paying less than before, indicating a trend ''from temporary layoff to permanent displacement,'' according to the paper by Dr. Kletzer and Dr. Rosen. 
 They propose stronger federal guidelines to end the wide disparities in eligibility and benefit rules among the states and to extend coverage to a broader group of workers. 
 They call for a new system of personal accounts for self-employed workers, allowing them to contribute pretax money, with matching grants from the federal government up to $200 a year, to help cushion income drops or pay for job training and searches. 
 They also propose a wage insurance program to help offset declines in income for a period of years when workers switch to jobs paying less than they had been making. This would apply only to workers making $15 an hour or less. 
 To help pay some $13 billion in added costs for these programs, Dr. Kletzer and Dr. Rosen suggest raising the federal unemployment tax, which for 22 years has been levied on only the first $7,000 of each worker's income. After tax credits are counted, employers now pay a maximum of $56 a year for each covered worker, the scholars said. 
 In the second paper, Jeffrey R. Kling, an economist at the Brookings Institution, proposed a more radical overhaul. Dr. Kling would scrap the existing unemployment insurance system and replace it with personal accounts and loans to help people through short-term joblessness and a large program of wage-loss insurance to help low- and moderate-income workers when they are forced to take new jobs at lower salaries. 
 By curbing government payments to those who experience only short-term joblessness, he said, this new plan could operate with the same total money as the current system but would provide more help to the neediest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (94%); LAYOFFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance; Wages and Salaries; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Part-Time Employment; Labor

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%) Brookings Institution

PERSON: Erik Eckholm

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



282 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Getting In, the Harvard Way

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Harvard Ends Early Admission, Citing Barrier to Disadvantaged'' (front page, Sept. 12):
Praise the gods of Harvard for their groundbreaking and courageous decision! I only pray that other fine institutions will follow. 
 Early admissions policies have not only created an economically stratified selection process, but they have also eroded the high school experience -- one of undue stress and obsession with the next four years of education. 
 As a guidance counselor at Rye High School, I rejoice!

Barbara Finder
New Rochelle, N.Y., Sept. 12, 2006

To the Editor:
 Students at my daughter's high school are encouraged to attend college fairs in ninth grade, to start taking Advanced Placement classes in the 10th grade and to participate in numerous extracurricular activities to make themselves more attractive to colleges.
 As a high school student in the mid-70's, I was accepted to a number of top schools that today would never take someone with my credentials. 
 Everyone involved in the process seems to have lost sight of the fact that where one goes to college is not the final word on how one's life will turn out. 
 One of the significant benefits to early admissions programs, assuming that a student has found a school at which he or she will be reasonably happy, is that it puts an end to this ridiculous pressure and provides teenagers a few months to have a more relaxed life. 
 My daughter plans to apply to her top-choice school through early decision. We all hope to see an end to this madness by mid-December. 

Karen Adler
Short Hills, N.J., Sept. 13, 2006

To the Editor:
 Harvard is now the No. 1 choice for the brightest high school seniors.
 Harvard's yield (percentage of accepted students who decide to enroll) is nearly 80 percent.
 Thus, Harvard is not concerned that it will lose top-flight applicants to another school by eliminating early admissions.
 But other elite schools have a much lower yield; some are lucky to have 50 percent of their accepted applicants enroll.
 If they eliminate early admissions, many top-flight applicants who want an early answer will apply to a competitive college that will satisfy this need.
 And that's one concern that Harvard doesn't have.

Elliott S. Kanbar
New York, Sept. 13, 2006

To the Editor:
 Removing educational barriers for socioeconomically disadvantaged students is unquestionably good. We should applaud Harvard's path-breaking decision to end early admissions.
 Early applicants are statistically favored but unable to weigh financial aid packages. Derek Bok, the president of Harvard, cites another benefit: it will ''improve the climate in high schools'' by postponing frenzied preoccupation with college until senior year. 
 This ignores a large group of students: those who, whether from school, family, friends or personality, feel overwhelming pressure early on. 
 Eliminating early admissions will only prolong this period of distress, especially for students, typically girls, who can have debilitating feelings of intellectual insecurity.
 I was one of those students. Early acceptance left me mentally free and more confident to engage with challenging courses I couldn't take until senior year, like calculus-based physics -- the class that impelled me to major in physics and philosophy in college and now to share this excitement for physics with my own students.

Jill North
New Haven, Sept. 12, 2006

The writer is an assistant professor of philosophy at Yale.

To the Editor:
 According to Derek Bok, the interim president of Harvard, many potential applicants did not understand the distinction between Harvard's early admission program and those that require an upfront commitment and were discouraged from applying. 
 I'm sure that the differences between Harvard's nonbinding early action and the binding programs used by other schools were clearly stated. 
 If potential applicants were incapable of grasping these differences, they should probably not have been considering applying to Harvard in the first place. And Harvard should probably not be considering them for admission. 

Richard Zimmer
South Orange, N.J., Sept. 12, 2006

To the Editor:
 I applied early to Harvard and got turned down. But my application wasn't rejected outright; it was advanced to the general admissions pool for another round of consideration. That is what happens to most early-admission rejects.
 In my senior year of high school, the lucky ''early admits'' got to bask in a secure future while the rest of us sweated through months of helpless anxiety, waiting for the thick or thin envelopes to arrive in April.
 Maybe colleges should drop their early admissions programs out of fairness. But let's not kid ourselves that it would reduce stress levels for applicants and their parents. It would increase the stress for those who have a definite first-choice college in mind.
 As it turned out, my Harvard envelope was thick, and the rest is history.

Peter Gray
Madison, Wis., Sept. 13, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tamara Shopsin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); SCHOOL CHOICE (76%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Colleges and Universities; Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University

PERSON: Barbara Finder; Karen Adler; Elliott S Kanbar; Jill (Asst Prof) North; Richard Zimer; Peter Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



283 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Councilman Is Positioned to Become Washington's Youngest Mayor

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
Gaunt and energetic, Adrian M. Fenty is an avid triathlete who shuns caffeine for vitamin-fortified water and who plans to compete in his eighth marathon this fall.
 Thanks to his upset victory in the Democratic primary on Tuesday, Mr. Fenty, who is 35, also expects to be Washington's next mayor, the youngest in its history.
Mr. Fenty defeated the City Council president, Linda W. Cropp, 57 percent to 31 percent. His victory capped the city's most expensive primary ever. 
 With two BlackBerries clipped to his belt, Mr. Fenty is clearly a man on the move. When he tours the city, he refuses to let his aides drive, insisting that he knows the streets better than anyone else. 
 In his six years as a councilman, residents of Mr. Fenty's district joked that when they called him about a pothole or a broken street lamp, he fixed it himself if a repair crew was not immediately available.
 ''To me, the victory represents a mandate to accelerate progress in this city,'' Mr. Fenty said after the primary. ''The goal is to continue the economic development but make it move faster and make it so that it serves more people, rich and poor.''
 Ms. Cropp seemed to have all she needed to win, including strong backing from Mayor Anthony A. Williams (who chose not to seek a third term), the almost unanimous support of business owners and the biggest war chest of anyone in the race. 
 But she dedicated much of her money and attention to unsuccessful attacks on Mr. Fenty and failed to convince voters that her experience would help extend the city's economic turnaround.
 With three-quarters of the city's voters registered as Democrats, Mr. Fenty's primary victory virtually guarantees his election in November. In January, if that happens, he will take the helm of a city on the upswing. The economy is growing, the budget is balanced, and downtown has been revitalized. 
 The region has also seen population growth fueled largely by immigrants and workers drawn from other parts of the country by a hearty job market. But after a steady drop in crime, Washington has also experienced a surge in assaults recently, and the supply of affordable housing is shrinking rapidly. 
 Mr. Fenty's critics say an obsessive attention to detail could swallow him up in the new job.
 ''He can't handle the whole city's constituent services from his BlackBerry,'' said Councilman Jack Evans, who campaigned for Ms. Cropp. ''He has to learn to delegate better.''
 Asked about the criticism that he is a micromanager, Mr. Fenty said he wore the label like a badge of honor.
 ''I cherish being called too responsive,'' he said, adding that for far too long in Washington, trash pickup and snow removal had felt like an occasional luxury.
 ''Things have gotten much better recently here, but there's still a whole lot of room for improvement,'' Mr. Fenty said, pausing to answer his cellphone while shaking a well-wisher's hand before turning back to complete the thought. 
 ''The bottom line,'' he said, ''is that I will delegate, and if I set the bar high so that I'm replying to every e-mail and call and working until 10 p.m. at night, then I will clearly expect the same thing from those who work under me.''
 The biggest challenge will be dealing with the city's failing schools. As a councilman, Mr. Fenty was integral in having $1 billion in city money set aside to rebuild and update the public schools. 
 As mayor, he could start spending that money next year. But the tough part may involve wresting decision-making authority from the city's independent school board.
 ''Every politician says that he is going to fix the schools,'' Mr. Evans said, ''and then every one of them runs into what is uniquely difficult about D.C.'s situation.''
 In every city where the mayor has taken control of the schools, like Chicago, Cleveland, New York and Philadelphia, Mr. Evans said, that authority was granted after state officials intervened. 
 In Washington, Mr. Evans said, the mayor can take control of the schools only if there is first a referendum on the matter and then an act of Congress changing the city's charter, a tactic tried unsuccessfully by Mr. Williams.
 Mr. Fenty, however, expressed his optimism and ''a can-do attitude,'' saying that ''the mere fact that we beat my opponent in the face of such odds energizes us to take on even bigger challenges.'' 
 Pausing, he laughed briefly and added, ''I mean, I'm talking about really big challenges, like the entrenched bureaucracy of our school system.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Councilman Adrian M. Fenty greeted residents of Southeast Washington yesterday after winning the Democratic nomination for mayor. (Photo by Andrew Councill for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); CITIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ATHLETES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); BUDGETS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EMPLOYMENT (64%); CRIME RATES (60%) Elections; Mayors (US) ; Primaries

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (57%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%)

PERSON: Adrian M (Councilman) Fenty; Linda W (Councilwoman) Cropp; Ian Urbina

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



284 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: This Bud's for You (Check Out the Clothes, Too)

BYLINE: By Guy Trebay

 BODY:
I have just bitten the head off my Anna Wintour cookie. I am sitting in an economy-class Delta airline seat temporarily installed in a tent inside Bryant Park. I am surveying a scene whose full dimensions, like those of Paris Hilton, are probably best appreciated when seen under special lights. 
 The Anna Wintour cookies were baked by Eleni's Bakery. They are hand-cut and hand-iced and cost $6 each, but they are being given away here by Delta, the airline now attempting to climb out of bankruptcy, in part by furloughing pilots and flight attendants, and reducing pensions and worker benefits. 
The bakers refer to them as ''edible image'' cookies and have produced 4,000 in versions featuring, besides Ms. Wintour, the designers Richard Tyler, Oscar de la Renta, Diane Von Furstenberg, Vera Wang and Anna Sui. It is inconceivable that most people in the tents would consume so many calories, of course. The temporary toilets set up in Bryant Park may be fancy, but you can still hear a person throwing up through their flimsy walls. 
 If one's own gorge tends to rise at all of the images, edible and otherwise, relentlessly being stuffed down one's throat during Fashion Week, it is partly because of the immense and ever-more-glaring disjunction between the fantasy gestalt of which we are all being invited to partake and well, reality. 
 How many of the garments offered up during Fashion Week are ever put into production? How many real people could afford them if they were? How many outside the industry -- the innocent suckers who made ''Project Runway'' a cable hit, for instance -- are aware that a majority of the editors and stylists whose job it is to crank the gears of the seasonal novelty machine get their clothes at deeply discounted prices or else for free? 
 And how quaint is it to bother thinking of Olympus Fashion Week as being in any substantial way about fashion, really, when sitting on one's desk is a four-pack of Budweiser Select?
 When Mark McCormack, the marketing genius who was the founder of the International Management Group, now IMG, decided in the 1990's to branch out into other spheres besides sports (Mr. McCormack is generally credited with the invention of the athlete as global media star), fashion was an obvious choice. 
 Fashion, as Mr. McCormack once told me, is an incomparable medium for promotion, perhaps better even than athletics. It provides a hypnotic, minutely changing but renewable spectacle that can be understood by anyone anywhere. Unlike sports, it requires no special understanding of a particular game. Being a language of symbols, fashion content can be sold into any market with a minimum of translation. And although fashion is traditionally a feminine pursuit, fashion shows appeal to both sexes. ''Everyone,'' Mr. McCormack said, ''likes to look at a beautiful girl.''
 This is why the exportation of the Fashion Week concept has been so successful that they are now held pretty much everywhere -- as was pointed out recently in these pages -- except Antarctica. It is why Cingular and Olympus and Samsung and Mercedes and, yes, even Budweiser have gotten into the mix. 
 It is unlikely that you will ever spot Ms. Wintour chugging a Budweiser Select. Yet the premium lager -- packaged in an aluminum bottle so sinister-looking it could serve as the poster product for banning carry-on liquids from airplanes -- was ranked second among the new food and beverage brands of the last year by Information Resources, a market analyst. 
 Among the events Budweiser Select sponsored this week were Tara Subkoff's Imitation of Christ show and Benjamin Cho's critically praised collection. Charlotte Ronson and Erin Fetherston, two young industry darlings, also got backing from the Anheuser-Busch folks, as did the former bad boy designer, Jeremy Scott, and Jefferson Hack, the editor of the hipster bibles Another Magazine and Dazed & Confused. 
 This is not an inherently bad thing, of course (although it does seem somewhat uncool to sell oneself as cutting-edge while taking money from a brewery). And anyway, the link between the beverage industry and Fashion Week, which is produced by IMG, is nothing new. Absolut and Evian got there years ago. 
 Even the most elaborately packaged beer carries with it a whiff of the middle market, of Target, J. C. Penney and Wal-Mart, the Super Bowl world. That is a realm where the so-called ''selectors'' packing the tents and rhapsodizing about Derek Lam's paper-bag waistlines or Marc Jacobs's jewel-thong sandals or Thakoon Panichgul's peony dresses can rarely be found. What the marketers understand as well as Ms. Wintour undoubtedly does is that this giddy extravaganza is, if not a Potemkin village, then a glamorously deceptive and giddy facade behind which a great deal of business unrelated to fashion gets done. 
 The fact is a lot of the clothes on the runways will never be manufactured. A lot of the folks gazing up at the catwalks would experience the same chastening sticker shock the rest of us feel if faced with an actual price tag. Burn off the hype and the apparent silliness of Fashion Week and what you're left with is the truth that buying a $2,270 shibori-dyed Vera Wang dress is beyond the wildest dreams of most Americans, whereas a bottle of Budweiser Select costs $1.50. 
 Anyone for a Vera Wang cookie? I've got an extra one.


GRAPHIC: Photo: BITE-SIZE -- Vera Wang is among the fashion notables to appear on a cookie. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (89%); FASHION DESIGN (88%); BAKERIES (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); SPORTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%) Apparel; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%); INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT GROUP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Olympus Corp

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (74%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (52%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (57%); DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (57%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (57%) Guy Trebay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



285 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: In a Slow Period, Lehman Posts Strong Profit

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
On Tuesday, shares of Lehman Brothers surged after Goldman Sachs, one of its main rivals, reported earnings that were better than expected. Yesterday, Lehman turned the same trick, reporting strong third-quarter results amid weak markets, lackluster deal flow and higher global interest rates. 
 Lehman shares rose $2.10, or 3 percent, to $70.12. 
For the quarter, Lehman earned $916 million, or $1.57 a share, up 4 percent from the quarter a year earlier and down 9 percent from the second quarter. Revenue totaled $4.2 billion in the quarter, up 8 percent from the same quarter a year ago and down 5 percent from the previous quarter. 
 In a bit of a tongue twister, Christopher O'Meara, chief financial officer of Lehman, said it was the firm's best third quarter and third-best quarter ever. Analysts had expected Lehman to earn $1.49 a share on revenue of $4.01 billion, according to a survey by Thomson Financial. 
 ''Considering that it was a not particularly strong quarter in the capital markets and given that it's a seasonally slower period, I thought they did quite well,'' said Guy Moszkowski, a securities industry analyst with Merrill Lynch. Mr. Moszkowski rates the stock a buy with a price target of $81.
 In trading, the biggest business for both Lehman and Goldman, Lehman outpaced its larger rival. Goldman's trading and principal investments group reported results of $4.7 billion, down 32 percent from the previous quarter and down 7 percent from the previous year. Lehman's capital markets business reported net revenue of $2.8 billion, up 13 percent from a year ago and down 8 percent from the previous quarter, albeit on a significantly smaller base. 
 Both firms defied market expectations that they would receive a drubbing. While summer is typically slow, this third quarter was unusually lethargic. Uncertainty surrounded interest rates, and markets were trading with less volume and less direction -- two things that help traders make money. 
 ''It was a difficult quarter to navigate,'' said Lauren Smith, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods. ''But when I step back and look at the results these firms have produced, these results are pretty strong.''
 The mortgage origination business, one of Lehman's strongest, weakened in the United States in the third quarter, but strengthened in Europe, where there was record volume, according to Mr. O'Meara. Other banks, including Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley, have recently bought mortgage lenders in an effort to build that business. 
 Of Lehman's three divisions, investment banking fared the worst, reporting revenue of $726 million, down 11 percent from the quarter a year ago and down 2 percent from the previous quarter. But the pipeline for mergers and acquisition fees is the strongest the firm has ever seen, Mr. O'Meara said, suggesting that part of the weakness simply reflected when the deals were booked, rather than an absence of them. 
 Investment management, the business of managing money for wealthy individuals and institutions, did well at both firms. At Lehman, assets under management grew to $207 billion, up 26 percent over the same quarter a year ago. 
 Goldman Sachs Asset Management, however, will probably face a difficult first quarter in 2007, because of the performance of its $10 billion flagship hedge fund, Global Alpha. The fund dropped 10 percent in August and remains flat for the year, according to a person briefed on the fund's results. That compares with a return of more than 40 percent for 2005, and means that the hefty 20 percent performance fees Goldman books in the first quarter will be significantly less. 
 A Goldman Sachs spokesman declined to comment on the fund's performance, citing regulatory reasons. 
 Both banks reported that return on equity -- a measure of the bank's profitability -- was 21 percent for the quarter. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MERGERS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BONDS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (64%); EXECUTIVES (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%) Company Reports ; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Lehman Brothers

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%)

PERSON: Christopher O'Meara; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



286 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Paulson Says China Hurts Itself With Economic Policies

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
In the administration's toughest warning yet to China on economic issues, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said on Wednesday that Chinese leaders were imperiling their nation's future by engaging in policies that Americans and others see as unfair. 
 Speaking as he prepared for his first trip to Beijing since taking office this summer, and one day after China's monthly trade surplus set another record, Mr. Paulson said that the United States had ''a huge stake in a prosperous, stable China'' and that ''we are not afraid of Chinese competition.'' 
But he used forceful language in saying that China had kept the value of its currency artificially low in relation to the dollar, which a growing number of economic analysts say is making China's exports cheaper and its imports more expensive.
 Mr. Paulson also repeated longstanding administration demands for China to loosen regulations and controls on foreign investment and the activities of its banks.
 ''Maintaining and relying on an overly rigid exchange rate and outdated administrative controls increases the risk of boom and bust cycles,'' Mr. Paulson said. Also, he added, China's ''currency exchange rate is increasingly being viewed by their critics as a symbol of unfair competition.''
 Mr. Paulson did not say so, but aides said he was referring to legislation that would place tariffs on imports from China if its government did not act to let the yuan rise in relation to the dollar.
 The sponsors of the measure,Senators Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat, and LindseyGraham, a South Carolina Republican, have held back pending Mr. Paulson's trip. But they vow to press for its passage this fall if Mr. Paulson fails to get action from the Chinese.
 Treasury officials say that in his few months as secretary, Mr. Paulson, a former chief executive of Goldman Sachs who made scores of trips to China as a business executive, has been surprised by the growing protectionist sentiment in Congress toward China, abetted by anti-Chinese sentiment on several issues.
 Leaders of both political parties accuse China of not cooperating on American efforts to prevent North Korea and Iran from amassing nuclear weapons and to stop the civil war in Darfur. The administration has also deplored China's military buildup.
 Mr. Paulson's speech was unusual for a Treasury secretary in that it embodied an extensive analysis of China's economic policies and structure. He repeatedly praised China for liberalizing its economy even as he implored its leadership to do more.
 Mr. Paulson said he learned in32 years at Goldman Sachs that ''those nations that reform their economies and open themselves to competition benefit their citizens greatly'' and ''have better jobs, improved living standards and greater opportunity.''
 But he said that protectionist sentiment was preventing China from doing more to open itself up to competition, and was in turn breeding protectionist sentiment in America.
 ''Ironically,'' he said, ''this protectionist sentiment comes from many quarters in those nations -- including in the United States and China -- which have benefited the most from the economic growth generated by global competition.''
 Mr. Paulson said the United States would not ''heed the siren songs of protectionism and isolationism,'' but that China had to do its part by changing its heavily subsidized industries and farms, allowing capital to flow freely and guiding Chinese to spend more and save less -- a step that economists say would increase imports.
 Before going to China, Mr. Paulson plans a stop in Singapore to meet with the world's finance ministers and to press for giving China more of a voice in the international agency that oversees the global economy and rescues countries whose economies collapse.
 The administration's proposal to expand the role of China and other developing countries at the agency, the International Monetary Fund, has run into some difficulties. Brazil, India, Indonesia and some other countries oppose the change out of fear of being left out.
 The administration needs 85 percent of the votes, which are assigned in a complex quota system to 184 countries, to have the change enacted at the fund. Treasury officials say there are some ''rumbles'' of protest but they predict success.
 Although Mr. Paulson was in Vietnam last weekend for a meeting of Asia-Pacific nations, the trip to Singapore and China represents what some officials call his debut on the international scene. Accordingly, it was notable that he began the trip with a warning.
 ''I believe that if China doesn't move quickly to continue reforming its economy,'' he said, ''it will face a backlash from other economic stakeholders. This backlash would not benefit any of us.''
 In an interview after his 35-minute speech, Mr. Paulson cautioned against expectations that his trip to China would produce immediate results.
 The best policy in advance of this trip, he said, was to ''diminish expectations'' for any quick move by China to allow the value of its currency to appreciate.
 ''I believe that most things that are worthwhile take a period of time,'' Mr. Paulson said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, who spoke yesterday at the Treasury Department, will soon go to Beijing. (Photo by David Scull/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (74%); TRENDS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); LEGISLATION (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); POLITICS (63%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); CIVIL WAR (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%) Henry M Jr Paulson; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SUDAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



287 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Politics Arch And Subtle At Toronto Film Festival 

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

DATELINE: TORONTO, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
Midway through its run, the 31st Toronto International Film Festival embraced the alpha and the omega of hype and glory. For some the day began with the British film ''Death of a President.'' Critics fretted whether they should show up two hours before the screening, or three. One hour was plenty. A fictitious documentary about the assassination of President Bush, the would-be provocation had already been snapped up for American distribution; we were just here to see what the noise was about. Later that night many of these same critics turned out for ''Still Life,'' the latest from the Chinese director Jia Zhang-ke, one of the world's most important filmmakers whose work most likely will never make it to a theater near you. 
 The clamor over ''Death of a President'' had quickly marked it as the ''Snakes on a Plane'' of the festival. The comparison between the two goes beyond their cute acronyms, since both are exploitation flicks of a kind (though ''S.O.A.P.'' turns out to be the superior entertainment). 
Directed by Gabriel Range, whose credits include several other so-called drama-documentaries, ''D.O.A.P.'' employs digital wizardry, nonfiction-film strategies and a trove of archival news video to create an appalling scenario: in 2007, while visiting Chicago, the president is assassinated. One moment, the real Mr. Bush is delivering a speech to the Economic Club of Chicago; the next, a phony speechwriter is eulogizing him with such fantastic banality that the former presidential speechwriter Peggy Noonan would call for a rewrite. 
 ''Death of a President'' doesn't have the requisite brains to take on its conservative targets, much less exploit the potential or implications of its own gimmick. Marred by unpersuasive performances and sloppy errors, including an American flag flying over the White House at full staff when it should be at half, the film is all setup and no payoff. It also manages to be another presumably political film without any actual politics. Mr. Range hits such hot buttons as the Patriot Act like a slap-happy therapist, but fails to engage the hard questions, including whether murder, including presidential assassination, can ever be justifiable. The one antiwar activist who briefly expresses support for the death of Mr. Bush remains a lone wolf, an irrational voice amid an inarticulate babble. 
 New technologies allow filmmakers to blur fiction and nonfiction as never before. ''Death of a President,'' which digitally pastes Mr. Bush's face onto the body of the actor in a bid at verisimilitude, expands what Woody Allen accomplished with ''Zelig,'' namely playing with the presumption that seeing is (still) believing. What Jia Zhang-ke does in ''Still Life'' and in a shorter film titled ''Dong,'' also screened in Toronto, leads to greater intellectual and aesthetic rewards. Fresh from the Venice Film Festival, where it won top honors, ''Still Life'' tells two somewhat parallel stories about the new China: that of a coal miner who hopes to reunite with his daughter and former wife, and of a young nurse seeking to do the same with her husband.
 Like Mr. Jia's recent feature ''The World,'' which was set almost entirely inside a Disney-like entertainment park, ''Still Life'' lyrically tallies the human cost of China's Great Leap Forward into go-go capitalism. Set against the spectacular and brutal landscape of the Three Gorges region along the Yangtze River, site of the controversial dam that has washed away ancient cities and uprooted millions, the film follows the miner, whose search has taken him to a village that will be decimated in the name of progress. Surrounded by crumbling buildings, the sounds of sledgehammers pounding out a fatalistic beat, he becomes an alien visitor to the strange planet that is modern China. 
 The contradictions and confusions of that interplanetary adventure are wonderfully telegraphed by a simple cellphone, a gadget the miner uses with enormous deliberation and that plays what sounds like one of those relentlessly optimistic party anthems that would have been sung during the last Great Leap Forward. Mr. Jia's understated comedic fillips easily keep the story's deep emotions from welling over into bathos, as do his magnificent compositions. A postmodernist with a classicist's eye, he finds harmony and balance, whether arranging bodies clustered inside a cramped apartment or taking a long view of the surrounding fog-wreathed mountains. What makes the film not only a formal but also a human triumph is the filmmaker's insistence on the primacy of the individual in even the most dehumanizing of contexts. 
 Some of the most arresting images in ''Still Life,'' including that of the coal miner walking past a wall being pulled down by unseen hands, show up in ''Dong.'' Like ''Still Life,'' ''Dong'' examines the toll the dam has extracted from the local population, a story that Mr. Jia blends with a portrait of a painter with whom he clearly feels a creative sense of kinship. Putting aside the estimable ambitions of each film, it's striking how much slower and more calmly paced these films are, compared with much of mainstream cinema, both American and foreign-made. Mr. Jia never moves the camera faster than it takes a person to walk down a road. He suggests rather than bullies, an approach that affirms the moral imperative of his world view. 
 Like the work of the Taiwanese transplant Tsai Ming-liang, Mr. Jia's films have everything going for them except a robust commercial future in America. That's a shame for both these great directors and an audience that no longer seems interested in looking at film images from beyond its borders. One of six features commissioned for the New Crowned Hope festival that takes place in Vienna in November, which are all meant to be inspired by themes in Mozart's work, Mr. Tsai's most recent film, ''I Don't Want to Sleep Alone,'' sounds a requiem for the common man amid the squalor of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Despite an absence of powdered wigs or the naked French women who sometimes entice American audiences into theaters, and who were of course in attendance at this year's festival, the film should speak to anyone with a conscience.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jia Zhang-ke's film ''Still Life'' tells two stories of the new China. (Photo by Toronto Film Festival)(pg. E1)
Lee Kang-sheng in Tsai Ming-liang's ''I Don't Want to Sleep Alone,'' a requiem for the common man in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
 A scene from Gabriel Range's fictitious documentary, ''Death of a President,'' which presents an assassination scenario for George W. Bush. (Photographs by the Toronto Film Festival)(pg, E8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (92%); FILM (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ASSASSINATION (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (56%) Motion Pictures; Toronto International Film Festival; Motion Pictures; Motion Pictures

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Manohla Dargis; Gabriel Range; Jia Zhang-ke

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (59%) ONTARIO, CANADA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (91%); MALAYSIA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



288 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 877 words

PERSON: Ann W. Richards

HEADLINE: Ann Richards, Flamboyant Texas Governor, Dies at 73

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

 BODY:
Ann W. Richards, the silver-haired Texas activist who galvanized the 1988 Democratic National Convention with her tart keynote speech and was the state's 45th governor until upset in 1994 by an underestimated challenger named George W. Bush, died Wednesday at her home in Austin. She was 73.
 Ms. Richard died, surrounded by her four children, of complications from the esophageal cancer, the Associated Press reported. 
 Ms. Richards was the most recent and one of the most effective in a long-line of Lone Star State progressives who vied for control of Texas in the days when it was largely a one-party Democratic enclave, a champion of civil rights, gay rights and feminism. Her defeat by the future president was one of the chief markers of the end of generations of Democratic dominance in Texas.
 So cemented was her celebrity on the national stage, however, that she appeared in national advertising campaigns, including one for snack chips, and was a lawyer and lobbyist for Public strategies and Verner, Lipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand.
 ''Poor George, he can't help it,'' Ms. Richards said at the Democratic convention in 1988, speaking about the current president's father, former President George Bush. ''He was born with a silver foot in his mouth.''
 Her acidic, plain-spoken keynote address was one of the year's political highlights and catapulted the one-term Texas governor into a national figure.
 ''We're gonna tell how the cow ate the cabbage,'' she said, bringing the great tradition of vernacular Southern oratory to the national political stage in a way that transformed the mother of four into an revered icon of feminist activism.
 Dorothy Ann Willis was born Sept. 1, 1933, in Lakeview, and graduated in 1950 from Waco High school where she showed a special facility for debate. She attended the Girl's Mock State government in Austin in her junior year and was one of two delegates chosen to attend Girl's Nation in Washington. 
 She attended Baylor University in Waco -- on a debate scholarship -- where she met her future husband, David Richards. After college, the couple moved to Austin where she earned a teaching certificate at the University of Texas in 1955 and taught social studies for several years at Fulmore Middle School.
 She raised her four children in Austin.
 She volunteered in several gubernatorial campaigns, in 1958 for Henry Gonzalez and in 1952, 1954 and 1956 for Ralph Yarborough and then again for Yarborough's senatorial campaign in 1957. 
 In 1976, Ms. Richards defeated a three-term incumbent to become a commissioner in Travis County, which includes Austin, and held that job for four years, though she later said her political commitment put a strain on her marriage, which ended in divorce.
 She also began to drink heavily, eventually going into rehabilitation, a move that she later credited with salvaging her life and her political career.
 ''I have seen the very bottom of life,'' she said. ''I was so afraid I wouldn't be funny anymore. I just knew that I would lose my zaniness and my sense of humor. But I didn't. Recovery turned out to be a wonderful thing.''
 In 1982, she ran for state treasurer, received the most votes of any statewide candidate, became the first woman elected to statewide office in Texas in 50 years and was re-elected in 1986.
 In 1990, when the incumbent governor, William P. Clements Jr., decided not to run for re-election, she ran against a former Democratic governor, Mark White, and won the primary, then later fought a particularly brutal campaign against Republican candidate Clayton Williams, a wealthy rancher, and won. 
 Among her achievements were institutional changes in the state penal system, invigorating the state's economy and instituting the first Texas lottery, going so far as to buy the first lotto ticket herself on May 29, 1992.
 It was her speech to the Democratic convention in Atlanta, though, that made her a national figure.
 A champion of women's rights, she told the television audience: ''Ginger Rogers did everything Fred Astaire did. She just did it backwards and in high heels.''
 In 1992, she was chairwoman of the convention that first nominated Bill Clinton.
 Two years later, she underestimated her young Republican challenger from West Texas, going so far as to refer to George W. Bush as ''some jerk,'' a commend that drew considerable criticism. Later, she acknowledged that the younger candidate has been much more effective at ''staying on message'' and made none of the mistakes that her campaign strategists had expected. She was beaten, 53 percent to 46 percent.
 Her celebrity, however, carried her onto the boards of several national corporations, including J.C. Penney, Brandeis University and the Aspen Institute.
 She also co-wrote several books, including ''Straight from the Heart: My Life in Politics and Other Places'' in 1989 with Peter Knobler and ''I'm Not Slowing Down'' in 2004, with Richard M. Levine.
 On her 60th birthday, she got her first motorcycle license.
 ''I've always said that in politics, your enemies can't hurt you, but your friends can kill you,'' Ms. Richard once said.
 Survivors, according to The AP, include her children, Cecile, Daniel, Clark and Ellen Richards, and eight grandchildren.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 15, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An obituary in some copies yesterday about former Gov. Ann Richards of Texas referred incorrectly to her later positions with the public relations company Public Strategies and the international law firm Verner, Lipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand (now DLA Piper). She was an adviser to both, not a lobbyist and lawyer. She did not have a law degree. The obituary also misstated the middle initial of the co-author of her book ''I'm Not Slowing Down: Winning My Battle with Osteoporosis.'' He is Richard U. Levine, not Richard M. A full obituary appears today on Page A23.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ann W. Richards at the Democratic convention in 1988. (Photo by Bill Pierce/Time Life Pictures -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); MARRIAGE (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (62%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (62%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (56%); LGBT RIGHTS (54%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information; Governors (US); Lotteries; Conventions, National (US); Elections; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Presidential Election of 1988

GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Rick Lyman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Texas

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



289 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Roll Out Tepid Welcome For President Of South Korea

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
As President Roh Moo-hyun of South Korea prepares to visit President Bush on Thursday morning, the two men have rarely been further apart on the central issue that long ago turned their relationship so frosty.
 Mr. Bush is determined to squeeze North Korea with every financial sanction possible until it gives up its nuclear capacity and other illicit activities, or, some believe, until it collapses. Mr. Roh insists the only course is to coax the country out of its isolation.
In the weeks leading to the visit here, Mr. Bush's aides have been using a new United Nations Security Council resolution, passed after North Korea's missile tests in July, to prepare a list of banks it can press to cut ties with North Korea. 
 Mr. Roh has been playing down the missile launching as a meaningless, attention-grabbing temper tantrum by the North Koreans, and he has resumed South Korean aid and investment to the country, in hopes of preventing what his country fears would turn into collapse or confrontation.
 In past meetings, Mr. Bush has done his best to paper over the differences. But his aides acknowledge that the gap has grown so much in recent months -- ''as wide as the Sea of Japan'' one senior official said Wednesday -- that it will be almost impossible to hide.
 Mr. Roh will receive treatment that contrasts sharply with the warm embrace extended in June to Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi. Mr. Koizumi got long meetings, a glittering dinner and a trip to Graceland; Mr. Roh, leader of the other major United States ally in Asia, is getting an hour in the Oval Office and a quick lunch.
 It is a symbol of the enormous strains in the alliance, strains so great that Mitchell B. Reiss, the director of policy planning at the State Department during part of Mr. Bush's first term, wrote in an op-ed column in The Los Angeles Times on Wednesday that the two leaders ''should agree to disagree on North Korea and move onward.''
 Asked how they could avoid the security issue that has been the cement of their alliance since 1950, Mr. Reiss, now a vice provost at the College of William and Mary, said in an interview, ''They don't have a choice, because you can't let it erode the foundations of the alliance.''
 Mr. Bush has a polite but distant relationship with Mr. Roh, whom current and former White House aides say Mr. Bush believes is wedded to a doomed policy of appeasement toward a country that runs prison camps and regularly threatens its neighbors by expanding both its nuclear capacity and the range of its missiles. 
 The missile defense system that the administration has deployed in rudimentary form in Alaska and aboard ships is geared toward deterring a North Korean attack, though White House officials say their bigger fear is that the country, perpetually broke, might sell a weapon to a terrorist group. 
 Mr. Roh, however, appears to view Mr. Bush's approach as a dangerous failure, more likely to prompt North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-il, to lash out than disarm. Ahead of this trip, South Korean officials said in interviews that they believed Mr. Bush's policies prompted Mr. Kim to produce the fuel for six or eight new nuclear weapons; American officials say North Korea would have done so anyway.
 Speaking on Wednesday at the United States Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Roh said he was ''quite aware'' of concerns about the state of American-South Korean relations.
 Mr. Roh authorized 3,000 troops for Iraq. But he was widely criticized for the decision at home, where polls show that the country is almost as distrustful of Washington as it is worried about the North Koreans. 
 What further complicates Thursday's meetings, however, is growing speculation that North Korea may be preparing for another test: this time, an underground nuclear test, which it has never before conducted. 
 ''For the North Koreans, it would be the next logical step in managed escalation,'' said Richard L. Armitage, the former deputy secretary of state. ''The irony of the situation is that the farther away you are from the peril, the more concerned you are about it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Foreign Aid; Missiles and Missile Defense Systems

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Roh Moo-Hyun (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (69%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (79%) North Korea; South Korea ; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



290 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

INTERIOR AGENCY CRITICIZED -- The inspector general of the Interior Department accused top agency officials of tolerating widespread ethical failures, from cronyism to cover-ups of incompetence, and then dismissing criticisms with ''a promise not to do it again.'' [Page A1.] 


GOOGLE'S APPROACH TO CHARITY -- Larry Page, left, and Sergey Brin, founders of Google, have set up a philanthropy, giving it seed money of about $1 billion and a mandate to tackle poverty, disease and global warming. But unlike most charities, this one will be for-profit, allowing it to fund start-up companies, form partnerships with venture capitalists, and even lobby Congress. It will also pay taxes. [A1.]

WOLFOWITZ'S CORRUPTION FIGHT -- As president of the World Bank, Paul D. Wolfowitz has made the fight against corruption in poor countries a hallmark issue, and he has drawn criticism for an aggressive campaign that has led to the suspension of hundreds of millions of dollars in loans and contracts to countries including India, Chad and Bangladesh. [C1.]

U.S. WARNS CHINA -- In the administration's toughest warning yet to China on economic issues, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said that Chinese leaders were imperiling their nation's future by engaging in policies that Americans and others see as unfair. [C3.]

NINTENDO TO RELEASE CONSOLE -- Nintendo of Japan plans to announce that it will release its new Wii video game console in North America and South America on Nov. 19, just as the holiday shopping season begins, and that the machine will cost $250 in the United States. The move may allow Nintendo to take advantage of stumbles by its main rival, Sony. [C1.]

MICROSOFT VS. HACKER -- A solitary computer hacker has entangled Microsoft in a battle of wits by repeatedly releasing a free program to strip away the software lock that the company created to protect digital movies and songs from being freely copied by Internet users. [C5.]

HIGH HOPES FOR ONLINE GAME -- AOL and Mark Burnett, producer for reality television, kicked off an ambitious online game called ''Gold Rush,'' which they hope will become a national sensation somewhat on par with the one Mr. Burnett created six years ago with the ''Survivor'' series. [C3.]

STRONG EARNINGS AT LEHMAN -- Lehman posted strong third-quarter results amid weak markets, lackluster deal flow and higher global interest rates, and its shares surged. [C13.]

MARKETS RISE -- Stocks rose, sending major indexes to their highest levels since May, as battered energy shares like Exxon Mobil rebounded and investors bet that interest rates would not rise any time soon. [C13.]

ROUGH TIME FOR NISSAN CHIEF -- Despite Carlos Ghosn's gilded reputation, his companies, Renault and its partner, Nissan Motor Corporation, are not performing well right now -- a fact their boss readily acknowledges. [C1.]

CHICAGO WAGE EFFORT FAILS -- The first attempt in the nation to impose minimum wage regulations on big-box stores like Wal-Mart unraveled as Chicago's City Council fell three votes short of overriding Mayor Richard M. Daley's veto. [A18.]

PLAN FOR JOBLESS INSURANCE -- The unemployment insurance system, which has hardly changed since its inception in 1935, should be revamped to aid more workers displaced by a transforming economy, economists said as they released overhaul plans. [A21.]

HELP FOR WHITE-COLLAR WORKERS -- Barbara Ehrenreich, author of ''Nickel and Dimed,'' has started an organization called United Professionals to help white-collar workers, be they unemployed, uninsured, downsized, stressed out or merely anxious. [A21.]

H.P. AND SPYING CASE -- California prosecutors looking into the Hewlett-Packard spying case are focusing on a small private investigation firm operating out of a house in suburban Boston. It is not clear how such a tiny firm ended up handling work for H.P., one of the largest technology companies. But other private investigators said it was not surprising, because corporations who are in need of such services often end rely on subcontractors. [C1.]

TRIAL SET FOR DIRECT MARKETER -- The lawsuit in which the coupon company Valassis Communications seeks to cancel its $1.3 billion merger agreement with the direct-mail marketer Advo will go to trial in December, a judge ruled. [C5.]

ONLINE

A BANK REBUILDS -- Gary Rivlin of The Times spoke with chief executive of Liberty Bank, Alden J. McDonald Jr., about struggling to rebuild after Hurricane Katrina. An audio report is at nytimes.com/business.

ETHANOL USE -- As proponents of ethanol push for its use, Alexei Barrionuevo of The Times went on a road trip through the Midwest to find out how available the fuel is to the American driver. His report is at nytimes.com/business.

ONLINE: DEALBOOK -- A report on mergers and acquisitions, up-to-the-minute news on Wall Street and a look at the behind-the-scenes maneuvering is at nytimes.com/dealbook.

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

AIRBUS MAY DELAY DELIVERY of its A380 airliner by more than a year amid rising production costs, said Mike Turner, chief executive of BAE Systems, which owns 20 percent of Airbus. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

THE SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP, formerly Hollinger International Inc., said its chief executive, Gordon Paris, would step down at the end of the year as the newspaper publishing company shifts all of its New York-based corporate functions to Chicago. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Hewlett-Packard's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); ETHICS (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (88%); COMPUTER GAMES (86%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (86%); STOCK INDEXES (83%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); STARTUPS (76%); PHILANTHROPY (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (75%); LOBBYING (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (70%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); INTERNET & WWW (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%); NINTENDO CO LTD (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN HAWAII LTD (50%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%); NISSAN MOTOR CORP IN GUAM (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); 7974 (TSE) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: LARRY PAGE (71%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); SERGEY BRIN (56%); CARLOS GHOSN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHAD (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



291 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1756 words

HEADLINE: Philanthropy Google's Way: Not the Usual 

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 13 

 BODY:
The ambitious founders of Google, the popular search engine company, have set up a philanthropy, giving it seed money of about $1 billion and a mandate to tackle poverty, disease and global warming. 
 But unlike most charities, this one will be for-profit, allowing it to fund start-up companies, form partnerships with venture capitalists and even lobby Congress. It will also pay taxes.
One of its maiden projects reflects the philanthropy's nontraditional approach. According to people briefed on the program, the organization, called Google.org, plans to develop an ultra-fuel-efficient plug-in hybrid car engine that runs on ethanol, electricity and gasoline. 
 The philanthropy is consulting with hybrid-engine scientists and automakers, and has arranged for the purchase of a small fleet of cars with plans to convert the engines so that their gas mileage exceeds 100 miles per gallon. The goal of the project is to reduce dependence on oil while alleviating the effects of global warming. 
 Google.org is drawing skeptics for both its structure and its ambitions. It is a slingshot compared with the artillery of charities established by older captains of industry. Its financing pales next to the tens of billions that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation will have at its disposal, especially with the coming infusion of some $3 billion a year from Warren E. Buffett, the founder of Berkshire Hathaway.
 But Google's philanthropic work is coming early in the company's lifetime. Microsoft was 25 years old before Bill Gates set up his foundation, which is a tax-exempt organization and separate from Microsoft.
 By choosing for-profit status, Google will have to pay taxes if company shares are sold at a profit -- or if corporate earnings are used -- to finance Google.org. Any resulting venture that shows a profit will also have to pay taxes. Shareholders may not like the fact that the Google.org tax forms will not be made public, but kept private as part of the tax filings of the parent, Google Inc.
 Google's founders, Larry Page and Sergey Brin, believe for-profit status will greatly increase their philanthropy's range and flexibility. It could, for example, form a company to sell the converted cars, finance that company in partnership with venture capitalists, and even hire a lobbyist to pressure Congress to pass legislation granting a tax credit to consumers who buy the cars.
 The executive director whom Mr. Page and Mr. Brin have hired, Dr. Larry Brilliant, is every bit as iconoclastic as Google's philanthropic arm. Dr. Brilliant, a 61-year-old physician and public health expert, has studied under a Hindu guru in a monastery at the foothills of the Himalayas and worked as a Silicon Valley entrepreneur.
 In one project, which Dr. Brilliant brought with him to the job, Google.org will try to develop a system to detect disease outbreaks early. 
 Dr. Brilliant likens the traditional structure of corporate foundations to a musician confined to playing only the high register on a piano. ''Google.org can play on the entire keyboard,'' Dr. Brilliant said in an interview. ''It can start companies, build industries, pay consultants, lobby, give money to individuals and make a profit.'' 
 While declining to comment on the car project specifically, Dr. Brilliant said he would hope to see such ventures make a profit. ''But if they didn't, we wouldn't care,'' he said. ''We're not doing it for the profit. And if we didn't get our capital back, so what? The emphasis is on social returns, not economic returns.''
 Development of ultra-high-mileage cars is under way at a number of companies, from Toyota to tiny start-ups. Making an engine that uses E85 -- a mixture of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline -- is not difficult, but the lack of availability of the fuel presents a challenge, said Brett Smith, a senior industry analyst at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
 Another barrier, Mr. Smith said, lies in the batteries for so-called plug-in hybrids, which require more powerful batteries that charge more quickly than the current generation of hybrid batteries. 
 There are skeptics, too, among tax lawyers and other pragmatists familiar with the world of philanthropy. They wonder whether Google's directors might be tempted to take back some of the largess in an economic downturn. 
 ''The money is at the beck and call of the board of directors and shareholders,'' said Marcus S. Owens, a tax lawyer in Washington who spent a decade as director of the exempt organizations division of the Internal Revenue Service. ''It's possible the shareholders of Google might someday object, especially if we go into an economic depression and that money is needed to shore up the company.'' 
 And there is the question of how many of the planet's problems can truly be addressed by a single corporate entity.
 But even while expressing reservations about Google's approach, Mr. Owens said that the structure of Google.org ''eliminates all the constraints that might otherwise apply.''
 The only conventional part of Google.org is the Google Foundation, a nonprofit with an endowment of $90 million that is constrained in how it spends by the 501(c)(3) section of the Internal Revenue Service code. 
 Google's big philanthropic experiment lies in the part of Google.org where the bulk of the funding now resides. This part of Google.org will be fully taxable, with the ability to invest in a full spectrum of programs and companies.
 All of Google.org's spending, Dr. Brilliant said, will be in keeping with its mission, and there is to be no ''blowback.'' That is, should Google.org make a profit with one of its ventures, those funds will not go to the search engine business, but will stay within Google.org.
 Google had existed for only six years, when, in advance of the company's initial public offering in August 2004, Mr. Page and Mr. Brin told potential investors that they planned to set aside 1 percent of the company's stock and an equal percentage of profits for philanthropy. By the end of 2004, Google.org was formed.
 The company has said it plans to spend the money over the next 20 years, and the Google board recently approved a more rapid disbursement rate, $175 million over the next two years. 
 ''Poor people can't wait,'' Dr. Brilliant said. ''Dying people can't wait for some 20-year plan. It's not what we're doing here.''
 Ventures that grow out of Google.org could be seen to have a competitive edge because they do not need to show a financial profit. But financial returns from a project like the high-mileage car are not necessarily the aim.
 ''I think how you count profit is the issue here,'' said Peter Hero, president of the Community Foundation of Silicon Valley, a charitable foundation with about $1 billion in assets. ''Google.org is measuring return on cleaner air and quality of life. Their bottom line isn't just financial. It's environmental and social.'' 
 Once Google.org was formed, the company spent months searching for an executive director. There was no lack of interest in the job. 
 ''Literally thousands of people worldwide got in touch with us,'' said Sheryl Sandberg, the Google vice president who led the search. ''We'd get someone who was an amazing technology entrepreneur but who didn't know anything about the developing world.''
 Then along came Dr. Brilliant, an affable man generous with bearhugs and self-deprecating humor whose unlikely resume looks like a composite career summary of multiple high achievers.
 After receiving his medical degree, Dr. Brilliant studied for two years with Neem Karoli Baba, a famous Hindu guru.
 As Dr. Brilliant tells the story, in 1973, shortly before the guru's death, he told Dr. Brilliant to ''take off the ashram whites'' and use his skills as a physician to help eradicate smallpox, which was devastating India at the time. 
 Dr. Brilliant joined a team of United Nations workers who painstakingly worked their way through India inoculating people against the disease. In 1980, the World Health Organization declared that smallpox had been eradicated.
 In 1978, Dr. Brilliant started the Seva Foundation, which focuses on preventing and curing blindness throughout Asia and Latin America. In 1985, Dr. Brilliant was a co-founder of the Well, a seminal online community. Throughout the 1990's and early 2000's, he ran several high-tech companies in Silicon Valley.
 Dr. Brilliant first heard about Google.org in early 2005 while lying in bed in India, sick with dysentery. He had gone there to work with the polio eradication program of the United Nations and, while recovering, he saw news of Google.org in a local newspaper. 
 He sent an inquiry to the only e-mail address he could find: info@google.com. He got no response.
 This year, Dr. Brilliant was awarded the TED Prize, an award given at the annual Technology, Entertainment and Design conference, a gathering of leaders from the technology and entertainment industries. The prize awards three recipients $100,000, and a ''wish'' for how to change world.
 Dr. Brilliant's wish was for the creation of an ''early detection, rapid response'' system for disease outbreaks. The idea would be an open-source, nongovernmental, public access network for detecting, reporting and responding to pandemics. 
 Some Google insiders heard about the award and invited Dr. Brilliant to give a talk at the company. Mr. Page and Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive, were in the audience as Dr. Brilliant described the polio eradication efforts of the United Nations. They agreed they had found their director and began to recruit him.
 At first, Dr. Brilliant said, he was thrilled. But then he turned skeptical, largely because of the for-profit structure of the organization. 
 ''I got weak knees,'' he said. ''It was weird. It was precedent setting.'' After several lengthy conversations with executives at Google, Dr. Brilliant changed his mind. Six months into the job, he has traveled to India to visit eye clinics and polio vaccination projects with Mr. Page, and to China to discuss clean energy alternatives. Next week, he leaves for Africa to visit Google grant recipients in Ghana.
 Dr. Brilliant said he had no desire to ''reinvent the wheel'' by working on projects others are already involved in. And although Google is a high-tech company, that does not mean that Google.org will be throwing around high-tech solutions.
 ''Why would we put Wi-Fi in a place where what they need is food and clean water?'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Larry Brilliant, the executive director of Google.org., used to have concerns about the new foundation's for-profit status. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); TAX LAW (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); STARTUPS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); HYBRID VEHICLES (75%); ALCOHOLS (75%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (75%); ETHANOL (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); MOUNTAINS (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%) Philanthropy; Biographical Information; Company and Organization Profiles; Automobiles; Hybrid Vehicles; Philanthropy; Ethanol; Energy and Power; Finances; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Electric Vehicles; Global Warming; Weather; Economic Conditions and Trends; Medicine and Health; Philanthropy

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (55%) Google.com; Google.org (Philanthropy); Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); BRK.B (NYSE) (54%); BRK.A (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (54%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: SERGEY BRIN (78%); LARRY PAGE (78%); BILL GATES (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (58%) Sergey Brin; Larry Page; Lawrence B (Dr) Brilliant; Katie Hafner

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



292 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Port Security Won't Bankrupt Us

 BODY:
Michael Chertoff, the secretary of Homeland Security, seems determined to outdo his commander in chief in ratcheting up fears of Al Qaeda whenever he wants to score political points. This week, he raised the specter that if the government starts too many expensive antiterrorism programs it could further a plot by Osama bin Laden to ''drive us crazy, into bankruptcy'' through overspending on homeland defense. 
 It was particularly ironic that Mr. Chertoff spun this theory while he was fighting off a measure, up for a vote today, that would help protect our ports against the threat that he himself deems most worrisome -- a nuclear explosion within our borders -- without government spending. 
In testifying before a Senate committee on Tuesday, Mr. Chertoff flailed away at straw men of his own concoction. He warned darkly about the dangers of trying to protect the country from ''every conceivable threat'' -- an idea no one has ever espoused. The issue has always been the need to set priorities, and in that respect, Mr. Chertoff's department has become a laughingstock. It compiled one list of possible targets that included a petting zoo and a popcorn factory while the government provided only a pittance for our vulnerable subways. 
 The White House has been warning that Osama bin Laden enunciated a policy in 2004 of ''bleeding America to the point of bankruptcy.'' But there's no reason to think the terrorist was hatching a plot to force his enemies to buy too many metal detectors or bomb-sniffing dogs. He actually seemed to be gloating about the economic harm wrought by attacks like the one on the World Trade Center, and the costs imposed on America by military adventures. So far, we have not heard anyone from the administration warning that the invasion of Iraq is going to drive us crazy, into bankruptcy. 
 When it comes to prioritizing our antiterrorism spending, it's hard to understand what Mr. Chertoff dislikes about a measure, introduced by Senator Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, that would require that all cargo containers headed for the United States be scanned at foreign ports to search for a possible nuclear weapon. Mr. Chertoff, after all, put a nuclear bomb at the top of his list of things to worry about, followed by a biological or serious radiological attack. He also agreed that eventually, every container should be screened abroad for radioactive material before it could be loaded into a ship headed for this country.
 But he balked at doing it now on the flimsy grounds that some ports might not have enough room to install scanning devices without slowing the flow of traffic and that some foreign governments might not cooperate. 
 Those sound like the rationalizations of a bureaucrat unwilling to push hard or buck a strong lobbying effort by shippers who don't want any additional hassles or costs. Terminal operators in Hong Kong have been using such scanners effectively and inexpensively without disrupting traffic. The cost of such scanning might reach $20 a container, a small surcharge on shipping costs measured in hundreds if not thousands of dollars.
 When it comes to homeland security, the Bush administration has repeatedly allowed corporate profits to trump safety. That seems to be the problem here, just as it has been when it has come to the chemical industry's resistance to reforms that would help protect against toxic disasters if terrorists ever attacked their plants. Right now, a port security bill is pending in the Senate that would establish three pilot programs overseas to test the feasibility of scanning all containers. But Mr. Schumer is surely right that delay is dangerous and unnecessary. Virtually all containers destined for the United States should be scanned for nuclear or radiological weapons within the next four years. It is not enough to scan the containers after their arrival here, the current administration policy. That could be too late.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); TERRORISM (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); METAL DETECTORS (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); LOBBYING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); BUDGETS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (64%); DOGS (64%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (60%) Terrorism; Law and Legislation; Ports; Ships and Shipping; Security and Warning Systems; Editorials; Terrorism; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare ; Containers and Packaging

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (91%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (78%); CHARLES SCHUMER (77%) Charles E (Sen) Schumer; Michael (Sec) Chertoff; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2006



293 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Slow Their Rise; Wall St. Awaits Price Report

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Retail sales rose 0.2 percent in August after a surge of 1.4 percent in July, the Commerce Department reported yesterday. Another report showed that weekly first-time claims for jobless benefits declined. 
 The economy is approaching the fourth quarter with its expansion modest but continuing. The recent slide in home sales and a degree of inflation represent challenges to Federal Reserve policy makers, who are expected to keep interest rates unchanged for a second month when they meet this coming Wednesday.
''Fears about the consumer falling apart are so far not founded,'' said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa. ''The Fed is still likely to do nothing next week, and continue to pause.'' 
 The rate-setting Federal Open Market Committee ended a two-year run of increases in short-term rates at its August gathering.
 A Bloomberg News survey of 79 economists had forecast that retail sales would decline 0.2 percent. Countering the optimism from this stronger data, some traders noted that growth in retail sales excluding autos was 0.2 percent, less than estimates of 0.3 percent. 
 Another Commerce Department report showed that inventories at businesses rose in July, matching an increase in sales, suggesting that companies kept stocking up on goods in anticipation of strong demand. An increase of 0.6 percent in the value of unsold goods at factories, retailers and wholesalers followed an upward-revised 0.9 percent gain in June.
 Chris Rupkey, senior financial economist at the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York, was among those with a positive view. ''The data today is slightly more positive for the economy in the second half of the year,'' he said. ''I'm especially encouraged that unemployment claims remained fairly low.''
 According to the Labor Department, the number of first-time unemployment claims dropped by 5,000 last week, to 308,000. 
 The department also said that prices of goods imported into the United States rose 0.8 percent in August, more than expected, led by increases in oil, natural gas and metals. Excluding oil, prices rose 0.5 percent. Crude oil prices have been declining in September, with the next-month futures contract settling in New York yesterday at $63.22 a barrel, down 75 cents.
 Anthony Chan, chief economist at J. P. Morgan Private Client Services in New York, said: ''The report does raise eyebrows. It may prove to be somewhat troublesome on the inflation front. We'll need to see the economy slow down considerably to see inflationary pressures moderate.''
 Attention now turns to today's report on August consumer prices, where economists expect an increase only half of July's pace.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Retail Sales''Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted.Aug.: +0.2%July: +1.4June: -0.5(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (93%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); INFLATION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (75%); FUTURES (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (66%); IMPORT PRICES (61%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Unemployment Insurance; Unemployment; International Trade and World Market; Inventories (Economic Indicator); United States Economy; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (66%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%) Commerce Department; Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (66%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



294 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 773 words

 BODY:

FORD TO OFFER BUYOUTS -- In the latest sign that Detroit has decided it needs to shrink to survive, the Ford Motor Company agreed to offer buyouts and other incentives worth as much as $140,000 each to all its 75,000 hourly workers in the United States to persuade them to leave their jobs. [Page A1.] 


HEDGE FUND MAY GO PUBLIC -- A hedge fund named Fortress Investment Group is considering an initial public offering for later this fall in a deal that could value the company in the range of $5 billion to $7 billion, according to people who have been briefed on the plans. [C1.]

RUSSIAN REGULATOR IS KILLED -- Andre Kozlov, below, a top Russian bank regulator who had been engaged in an effort to reform Russia's corrupt and risk-laden banking system, died yesterday after being shot on the street the night before. Mr. Kozlov, 41, the first deputy chairman of Russia's central bank, had been leading a drive to combat money laundering and to bring stability to Russia's rapidly expanding banking sector. Among many programs in his portfolio, he had been closing disreputable banks by withdrawing their licenses, a practice his colleagues said had made him enemies in criminal circles. [A3.]

SETBACK FOR U.S. ON SHELTERS -- A 2004 Internal Revenue Service document indicates that KPMG did not have to register certain questionable tax shelters with the agency, undermining a major claim in the government's case against 18 former tax professionals. [C1.]

TALKS TO SELL DIRECTV -- Rupert Murdoch, who spent more than two decades coveting the satellite broadcaster DirecTV before acquiring control of it three years ago, is now in talks to sell it to the financer John C. Malone, people close to the talks said last night. [C1.]

UTILITY MERGER ABANDONED -- The Public Service Enterprise Group of Newark, the parent company of New Jersey's largest utility, and Exelon of Chicago called off their merger, saying that their differences with New Jersey regulators were ''insurmountable.'' [B5.]

CHINA AND NEWS SERVICES -- Chinese officials promised that new rules restricting the sale of reports by foreign news agencies would not have an effect on press freedoms. But the officials also strongly defended efforts to control the distribution of financial and economic news inside the country. [A10.]

CALIFORNIA'S EMISSIONS FIGHT -- California is betting that it can succeed in reducing greenhouse gas emissions without wrecking its economy, and therefore inspire other states -- and countries -- to follow its example on slowing climate change. [A1.]

AOL EXECUTIVE TO LEAVE POST -- Ted Leonsis, who has been a top leader of AOL for 13 years, will give up his jobs as president of what AOL calls its audience business, which creates Web sites and sells advertising on them. He will remain vice chairman of the company. [C4.]

MICROSOFT'S MUSIC PLAYER -- Hoping to upstage the Apple iPod, Microsoft said that its Zune player, which it plans to release in time for the holiday season, will include wireless technology to allow Zune owners to easily share their favorite songs and playlists with one another. [C3.]

MEXICO SECURITIES SETTLEMENT -- The billionaire investor Ricardo Salinas Pliego and the United States Securities and Exchange Commission reached a settlement in the first case against a foreign company under the corporate governance rules of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. [C3.]

BATTLE OVER JOB CUTS AT PAPER -- The editor of The Los Angeles Times appears to be in a showdown with the paper's owners at the Tribune Company over newsroom job cuts. [C3.]

RESHAPING RADIO -- Woes in the radio industry have spurred a new wave of deal-making. Clear Channel Communications, the nation's largest radio operator, is considering selling some of its 1,200 stations in smaller markets, according to industry analysts. The CBS Corporation did the same thing recently and now says it is looking at further station sales. Walt Disney recently struck a deal to get out of the radio business altogether, and Susquehanna Broadcasting has been sold to another broadcaster. [C1.]

INDIA'S CELLPHONE GROWTH -- India has become the fastest-growing cellular market in the world, adding a net 5.9 million cellular subscribers in August, the Cellular Operators Association of India said. The gain outstripped China's increase of 5.19 million subscribers. [C4.]

SMALL RISE IN RETAIL SALES -- Retail sales rose 0.2 percent in August after a surge of 1.4 percent in July. Another report showed that weekly first-time claims for jobless benefits fell. [C4.]

STOCKS END THE DAY MIXED -- Wall Street closed mixed, with blue chips falling and technology stocks managing a slight gain. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Clear Channel share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); MERGERS (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (87%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); SHOOTINGS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (69%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (68%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%); TAX AUTHORITIES (65%); EMISSIONS (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (95%); FORTRESS INVESTMENT GROUP LLC (57%); PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (54%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (95%); F (NYSE) (95%); FIG (NYSE) (57%); PEG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (95%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (57%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (53%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (52%); JOHN MALONE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



295 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Day as Investors Await Next Week's Fed Meeting

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street closed mixed yesterday, with blue chips falling and technology stocks managing a slight gain while investors assessed the latest evidence on inflation and the health of the economy. 
 Lower oil prices, which have helped drive stock rallies in recent days, remained a bright spot, but another drop in crude oil yesterday was not enough to offset investor concerns about inflation ahead of next week's Federal Reserve meeting.
Investors grew uneasy after the Labor Department reported import prices rose a larger-than-expected 0.8 percent in August.
 The relatively quiet session was not a surprise after sharp rallies earlier in the week that had been unexpected for some market watchers.
 Oil prices fell yesterday even after Wednesday's report of a drop in United States inventories. A barrel of crude fell 75 cents, to settle at $63.22 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Natural gas futures for October fell to their lowest level in two years after the Energy Department released figures showing stores of natural gas were much larger than expected.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 15.93 points, or 0.14 percent, to 11,527.39. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 1.79 points, or 0.14 percent, to 1,316.28, while the Nasdaq composite index gained 1.06 points, or 0.05 percent, to 2,228.73.
 After a dearth of economic numbers earlier in the week, investors were eager to appraise new data.
 ''You have a lot of uncomfortable sideliners at the moment,'' said Richard E. Cripps, chief market strategist with Stifel Nicolaus. He added that if the Fed leaves rates unchanged, investors who have been biding their time until the meeting could re-enter the market, potentially prompting another rally.
 Even amid concerns about the economy, corporate earnings remain strong. A string of strong profit reports this week from investment banks continued as Bear Stearns reported better-than-expected results. Reports from Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers helped drive stocks higher in previous days.
 Shares of Bear Stearns rose $3.46, or 2.5 percent, to $139.68. Lehman gained $1.98, or 2.8 percent, to $72.04, while Goldman Sachs jumped $1.66, or 1 percent, to $162.52.
 General Electric said it struck a deal to sell a majority stake in its advanced materials unit to the private investment group Apollo Management in a deal valued at $3.8 billion. 
 Shares of G.E. fell 6 cents, to $34.78.
 Blue chips came under pressure after UBS, the investment bank, lowered its ratings on G.E. and Boeing. UBS cut its rating on G.E. to neutral from buy and shifted its call on Boeing to reduce from neutral. Shares of Boeing dropped $1.31, or 1.7 percent, to $75.01.
 Declining issues outnumbered advancers by about 2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note declined 8/32, to a price of 100 21/32. 
 The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.79 percent from 4.76 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since June, 2006. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FUTURES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); INTEREST RATES (63%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Interest Rates; Government Bonds; Finances; Credit

COMPANY: BOEING CO (80%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (65%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (80%); BAB (BRU) (80%); BA (NYSE) (80%); GS (NYSE) (58%); APO (NYSE) (51%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (80%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



296 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Times Editor Openly Defies Owner's Call for Job Cuts

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The editor of The Los Angeles Times appears to be in a showdown with the paper's owner, the Tribune Company, over job cuts in the newsroom.
 In a highly unusual move, Dean P. Baquet, who was named editor last year, was quoted yesterday in his own newspaper as saying he was defying the paper's corporate parent in Chicago and would not make the cuts it requested.
The paper's publisher, Jeffrey M. Johnson, said he agreed with Mr. Baquet. ''Newspapers can't cut their way into the future,'' he told the paper. 
 The number of jobs at stake is unclear but the paper, the fourth largest in the country, has eliminated more than 200 positions over the last five years from an editorial staff that now numbers about 940.
 ''I am not averse to making cuts,'' Mr. Baquet told the paper. ''But you can go too far, and I don't plan to do that.''
 The paper reported that Scott C. Smith, president of the Tribune Publishing division, had asked the paper's executives to come up with a plan for trimming their budgets, but when Mr. Smith visited Los Angeles late last month, they had produced no such plan.
 Mr. Baquet ''made his opposition to further cuts clear and said there was no need for further discussion,'' the paper reported. 
 A spokesman for Mr. Baquet and Mr. Johnson said they would have no further comment.
 Mr. Smith said in a statement: ''In this rapidly changing media environment, we are all working together to best serve our communities, customers and shareholders.''
 It is rare for an editor to go public with a position on internal budget battles and for the editor's own newspaper to report on it. The decision by The Los Angeles Times to take its battle against Tribune public may signal that Mr. Baquet is trying to rally support on the paper's behalf, at a time when Tribune is in turmoil and some local businessmen have expressed interest in buying the paper.
 An editor at the paper said the article was prompted by a letter on Tuesday from 20 civic leaders, who called on Tribune to put more money into the paper or consider selling it. A Tribune spokesman said the company would respond to the letter in the near future.
 The showdown is a dramatic example of a long-simmering conflict between many newsrooms and boardrooms around the country as newspapers face an industrywide economic slump and continued demands by Wall Street for improved financial results.
 The stock prices of most public newspaper companies have been flagging for about two years, yet many of their publications remain profitable. The Los Angeles Times reported that its operating profit margin was 20 percent, higher than that of the average Fortune 500 company.
 Many papers, including The New York Times and The Washington Post, as well as other Tribune properties -- among them Newsday, The Sun of Baltimore and The Hartford Courant -- have announced buyouts and job cuts over the last year. Newspaper costs, particularly for newsprint and personnel, are outstripping revenues and the Internet is siphoning off readers and advertisers.
 The Belo Corporation announced yesterday that 111 newsroom employees at The Dallas Morning News had taken buyout offers, leaving 450 editorial employees to retrench and focus mainly on local news. Last month, David Black, whose Black Press is the new owner of The Akron Beacon Journal, laid off 40 editorial employees, about 25 percent of the newsroom staff.
 At The Los Angeles Times, circulation has been falling from its peak of 1.2 million in 1990. For the six months that ended in March, it was 851,500, down 5.4 percent from the period a year ago. It was the biggest drop among the top 10 dailies and more than twice the industry average.
 Tribune has been in particular turmoil because of a conflict in recent months with the Chandler family, its largest shareholder, over management of the company, which includes 11 daily newspapers and 25 broadcast television stations. The Chandlers have said the company, in which The Los Angeles Times is the biggest business, is mismanaged and have called for the company to sell its assets.
 The Tribune board has defended management and has been in talks with the Chandlers to try to iron out their differences. The company said earlier this year that it would buy back $2 billion worth of company stock and make $200 million in cost cuts companywide over the next two years. It has sold some television stations, and announced a deal yesterday to sell its station in Boston, but it has not specified where it will find the bulk of those savings.
 The statements in yesterday's Los Angeles Times seemed a declaration that Tribune would not find much of those savings in Los Angeles -- or it could lose its top executives.
 John S. Carroll, the paper's previous editor, quit last year in part because of pressure from Tribune to cut costs. Mr. Baquet, a close friend of Mr. Carroll and his heir apparent, had threatened to quit then, too, but stayed on.
 ''Have I had disagreements with Chicago and others about the paper?'' Mr. Baquet told his paper at the time. ''Sure. But obviously I feel like I am in sync enough with the people who own the joint'' to have accepted the editor's job.
 Several staff members said the stance that Mr. Baquet was taking now, with support from Mr. Johnson, had given the newsroom a morale boost.
 ''Johnson comes out from Chicago and goes native,'' said Steve Lopez, a columnist for the paper. ''He's had a stiff drink of the Dean Baquet Kool-Aid and he's on the team.'' 
 He said many in the newsroom thought Tribune would be reluctant to fire the editor and the publisher because doing so could bring further embarrassment and spell chaos for the already troubled company. But it is not clear how the company will respond.
 ''Tribune isn't shy or sentimental,'' said Martin Kaplan, associate dean of the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Southern California. ''My guess is that they don't want to be backed into a corner.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dean P. Baquet, right, in July 2005, when he was named editor of The Los Angeles Times. With him was the publisher, Jeffrey M. Johnson. (Photo by Al Seib/Los Angeles Times, via Associated Press)
 Scott C. Smith of Tribune Publishing had asked for budget cuts. (Photo by Chicago Tribune, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%) Newspapers; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (97%)

ORGANIZATION: Los Angeles Times; Tribune Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (97%)

PERSON: Dean Baquet; Jeffrey Johnson; Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



297 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Losing Money By Buying Stock Back

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
BUY high. Sell low.
 For your average investor, that is a recipe for disaster. But for companies, it has actually been a way to improve reported profits even as the cash flows out the door.
One such company is Dell, which announced this week that it was temporarily calling off its share repurchase program while it dealt with investigations of its accounting by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department.
 That blow was just the newest one for Dell. Its profits are down, the batteries in its laptops are being recalled and now the company thinks its old financial statements may be wrong, but is not sure how important the problem is. 
 Its stock this week traded for less than half the price it fetched in the summer of 2005.
 The company did not say why it was suspending the program, and perhaps it will be reinstated after it gets its accounting in order. But Dell's suffering shareholders have reason to hope the company will cancel it. 
 That is not conventional Wall Street wisdom. The accepted view is that stock buybacks raise earnings per share and support the share price. American companies have been repurchasing shares at a record pace, spending more than $100 billion a quarter.
 There is no question that shareholders who sell to the company have reason to be happy. The remaining shareholders, however, may see it differently. To them, buybacks should be good news if the price turns out to be low, and bad news if the price is high. In other words, shares should be viewed like any other asset.
 Measuring that performance is not as easy as it might be. The accounting rules provide that companies should not record profits or losses on transactions in their own shares, so a buy high-sell low strategy does not affect reported profits.
 Dell's record as a market timer is poor. It got so enthusiastic in 1999 and 2000, when the stock price was soaring in the technology bubble, that it not only bought back a lot of stock but also entered into complicated options transactions that committed it to buy shares in the future at prices that now seem very high.
 The result was that in 2001 and 2002, when the stock price was in the tank, Dell was committed to buying shares not at the newly discounted price, but at the old price it contracted for when it entered into the options deals. The result: In the fiscal year that ended in January 2003, Dell's average cost of share repurchases was $45.80 a share, even though the shares never traded as high as $32 during the entire year.
 That embarrassed the company, and late in that fiscal year it bought its way out of the contracts. It probably would have done better to hold on, because the stock did well in the next year. That merely reinforced Dell's reputation for bad market timing.
 But by last year, its confidence was back. Dell shares were trading in the high $30's, and sometimes topped $40. The company plowed $7.2 billion into share repurchases -- more than twice its net income -- only to see its business go into decline, taking the stock price with it. Yesterday, it closed at $21.61.
 In the first two quarters of the current fiscal year, it spent at a slower rate, in large part because the price was down. And now it has, at least temporarily, halted purchases.
 The money here is very real, by the way. During the last eight full fiscal years, Dell reported net income of $17.9 billion -- and it spent $24.1 billion buying back stock.
 Some of those repurchases went to reducing the share count. But most of them were purchased simply to offset the dilution caused by executives and employees cashing in stock options. I estimate that to buy the 491 million shares Dell issued for options over that period, it spent $10 billion more than it received from the options holders.
 Those who oppose treating the value of options as an expense argue that no cash changes hands, and that the fair accounting treatment is to reduce earnings per share through the dilution that comes from more shares being outstanding. But, as Dell's history shows, that ignores the cash cost from offsetting the dilution by repurchasing shares.
 There have been companies that did wonders for their investors by repurchasing shares, as Teledyne did in the 1960's and 1970's under the direction of Henry E. Singleton. But he was also a brilliant investor who understood values. And unlike many current executives, he was not selling his own stock while the company was buying.
 Unfortunately, many corporate boards are subject to the same emotional swings that affect investors. In good times, there is plenty of cash and they are willing to buy stock at high prices. When times get tough, the price falls and they cut back. That is a recipe for buy high-sell low.
 Even if the accounting hides the results, that is never a good policy.


GRAPHIC: Graph shows Dell share repurchases since 1999, fiscal years ending in January. (Source by company reports) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CASH FLOW (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (77%); ETHICS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (72%) Accounting and Accountants; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) Dell Computer Corp ; Securities and Exchange Commission; Justice Department; Dell Computer Corp 

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



298 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; CHEAP SEATS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1723 words

HEADLINE: Walking the Line, Stalking Bargains on Broadway

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
EACH day as I passed the Schoenfeld Theater on West 45th Street, where the revival of ''A Chorus Line'' is opening in two weeks, I looked upward and felt a kinship with the tense yet hopeful auditioners on the poster. 
 Like them I was looking to beat the odds on Broadway. I was in search of a cheap ticket, the cheapest to be found, and that meant rushing each afternoon to the lottery line for ''Avenue Q'' -- at the Golden, two doors down from the Schoenfeld -- where I waited with a few dozen others in penny-pinching anticipation for a young man in a T-shirt to pick my name out of a white plastic bucket and save me $80.
Broadway is one of the great symbolic cultural forces in New York, representing ambition and its demands, success and its risks, and the magical power of song and dance to separate people from their money. These days that means more money than ever. 
 Twenty-five years ago ''Nicholas Nickleby'' became the first production to sell a $100 ticket, and it took a decade before another show, ''Miss Saigon'' in 1991, crossed that threshold again. But of the 20 shows now on Broadway, 17 have hit the century mark, and that's not even for the best spots: ''premium'' seats are in the $200 to $300 range. For the week that ended last Sunday the average ticket cost slightly more than $78, according to the League of American Theaters and Producers. 
 But Broadway is also one of New York's great bargain districts, with a range of incentives and discount programs -- some well known, some obscure -- to lure bodies into seats. It is still possible to attend even the most in-demand shows at remarkably good prices, but it's not easy. For me a week of cheap-ticket hunting demanded such patience, and offered such repeated disappointment, that I began to feel as if I were in some kind of cheapskate ''Waiting for Godot.'' 
 My first stop was the place known to budget-conscious theater lovers simply as The Booth.
 Operated by the nonprofit Theater Development Fund, the TKTS booth is the fish market of Broadway: a noisy, teeming bazaar where frugal buyers inspect the catches of the day. The offerings are plays and musicals, both Broadway and Off Broadway, whose producers have decided to sell tickets at a markdown, usually of 25 to 50 percent. 
 What turns up there is unpredictable from day to day, though it often follows the general pattern of a show's popularity. Don't expect to find tickets to the revival of ''A Chorus Line'' the week after it opens. New productions sometimes go on sale there when in previews but disappear if they become a hit, a spokesman for the Theater Development Fund said, only to reappear months or years later when they cool off.
 The original booth, consisting of a trailer (later two) and a jungle gym of pipes and white vinyl panels, opened in 1973 in Father Duffy Square and was supposed to be temporary, but it stood for 33 years. In May ground was broken on a new, $12.5 million structure there that promises granite and a 27-step glass staircase; the daily ticket market was moved to a temporary spot -- really temporary, this time, they say -- in the ground-floor plaza beneath the nearby Marriott Marquis Hotel. There is also a TKTS annex downtown, at South Street Seaport.
 On a recent drizzly Tuesday afternoon I began my hunt. First revelation: Inclement weather is the stingy theatergoer's friend. While on a nice day there might be hundreds of people snaked in long lines next to the Marriott's walls on this day there were no more than two dozen. I asked the clerk what his cheapest ticket was. ''Martin Short, 46 bucks,'' he said curtly. ''Everything else is 50.'' I chose ''Rent.'' 
 The tickets were 50 percent off, seemingly a deal that anyone could be proud of. But my seat left me with the feeling that I had gotten no great bargain. My $50.50 put me in B15 in the rear mezzanine, far stage right and about halfway back. At the Nederlander, where ''Rent'' plays, all but the last four rows of the balcony sell at the top price of $95; if I had moved three rows back, I would have paid a boothless $45.
 The setting for the story about AIDS and bohemian poverty, a loft on 11th Street at Avenue B, is a location that sounds pretty expensive these days, and I wondered if any of the young women who seemed to make up the largest constituency in the audience were feeling a similar disconnect from the show, which opened in 1996. Just then I heard one ask, ''Mom, what's AZT?''
 Besides TKTS the Theater Development Fund also offers substantial discounts to members, who must fit certain criteria to join, like being a teacher, student or civil servant. I qualified as a member of a union, so I paid the $25 annual charge and scanned the Web site (tdf.org) for a show. One that had just opened jumped out: ''Kiki & Herb: Alive on Broadway,'' for $29. 
 The last time I saw Kiki & Herb was six years ago at the Fez downtown, where they performed a raunchy send-up of a Christmas cabaret show that juxtaposed ''Frosty the Snowman'' and ''Smells Like Teen Spirit.'' I couldn't wait to see what they would do at the Helen Hayes Theater.
 But I hesitated, and when I returned to the site two days later, the offer had expired. Feeling like a failure, I slumped my way back to the TKTS booth and paid $44.25. This time, however, I was amazed to find that my 50-percent-off ticket led to seat G7 in the front orchestra, far to the side again but only seven rows back. A better value, and just in time: the show closed 11 days after I saw it. (I benefited from its relative unpopularity. The week I attended, ''Kiki & Herb'' played at 49 percent capacity, while ''Rent'' was at 81 percent.)
 I knew I could do better than $44.25, but it would require guerrilla tactics, which on Broadway means a lot of waiting in line. 
 Most shows offer heavily discounted ''rush'' tickets -- a small number of seats sold each day to the dedicated or miserly who wait in a special, often long, line -- though they are usually not advertised prominently and their rules are strict. ''Rent'' pioneered the sale of these tickets by lottery, and the practice quickly caught on around Broadway.
 The show I was most interested in seeing, ''Avenue Q,'' calls for the hopefuls to fill out little pieces of paper a couple of hours before each performance (the schedule varies), requesting one ticket or two, and then return a half-hour later for the drawing. I was both determined and miserly.
 The show offers 12 orchestra seats at each performance for $21.25 -- a $101.25 value -- and each day I competed, only a few dozen people showed up. At the third drawing, on a sunny Friday afternoon with the longest line, the young man from the box office awarded 11 tickets and then couldn't give away a 12th because no one wanted a single. After several minutes of this, he took his hand out of the bucket and said: ''O.K., here's what we're going to do. Pick a number between 1 and 20.'' He hadn't made it to my side of the line before somebody guessed right.
 I don't know if it was the bad weather or fate, but on the fourth lottery, for a Saturday matinee, I finally got lucky. Very lucky. I was the first name picked, and my reward was seat BB102 in the orchestra: front center, close enough to read the serial number on the tool belt of the Gary Coleman character (''No. H427X'') and to feel the chill of dry ice as it rolled off the stage and onto my lap in the dream sequence of Princeton, the earnest but unemployable young lead.
 And perhapsit was just the elation of getting that ticket, but as I laughed to the cheerfully cynical song ''The Internet Is for Porn,'' I felt an instant recognition of the New York of ''Avenue Q'' that I did not in ''Rent.'' Those furry puppets dream of no real estate paradise greater than the Lower East Side as they struggle in a distant corner of what the program identifies only as ''an outerborough of New York City.''
 Where it's cheap.

This Way to Your Half-Price Seats
 The simplest and most reliable way to get discount tickets to Broadway and Off Broadway shows is the TKTS booth, which is situated temporarily in the ground-floor plaza of the Marriott Marquis Hotel, between 45th and 46th Streets and Seventh and Eighth Avenues. 
 The booth is scheduled to return to Father Duffy Square, with a significant makeover, by the end of the year.
 Tickets go on sale at the booth for evening performances at 3 p.m. and for matinees at 10 a.m. The Theater Development Fund, the nonprofit group that operates TKTS, adds a $3 fee to each ticket, but no other fees apply. Cash or travelers checks only.
 There is also a TKTS annex at the South Street Seaport, at Front and John Streets. It is open 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday to Saturday, and 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Sunday. Tickets for matinees are sold the day before the show. 
 To qualify as a member of the Theater Development Fund and receive other discounts -- some much more than 50 percent -- you must be a student, teacher, civil servant, performing arts professional, employee at a nonprofit organization, member of the armed forces or the clergy, or be 62 or older, and have documentation to prove it. The annual fee is $25. Information and an application: tdf.org.
 Some ticket services offer greater markdowns, but with bigger up-front charges. One, Play by Play (play-by-play.com), which calls itself a ''seat-filling organization,'' offers the chance to buy tickets for $3. Yes, $3. The catch: membership costs $99 a year. 
 The School Theater Ticket Program (schooltix.com) offers discount vouchers for Broadway and Off Broadway shows and for events at Lincoln Center. This week ''The Phantom of the Opera,'' ''Stomp,'' ''The Wedding Singer'' and others were listed.
 But for the cheapest tickets available with the fewest strings attached, daily rush tickets are the best bet. Most Broadway shows set aside a small number of low-cost tickets (usually $20 to $25) to be sold to students or, in many cases, whoever wins a lottery. Contact or visit the theater in advance, and note that these seats can be obstructed view, though some are quite good.
 For ''Avenue Q,'' which I saw at the matinee on Saturday, Sept. 2, I filled out a slip of paper at 11:30 a.m. and then returned for the drawing at noon. After three unsuccessful tries, I won a front-row-center seat for $21.25. BEN SISARIO


GRAPHIC: Photos: Theatergoers in search of discounted seats weave their way along in front of the Marriott Marquis Hotel to the TKTS booth for half-price tickets, above right. (Photo by Shannon Greer for The New York Times)
(Photo by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
A crowd learns the winners of heavily discounted ''Avenue Q'' tickets.
 Among the throngs entering the Golden Theater to see ''Avenue Q'' are a handful of theatergoers who won ticket lotteries earlier in the day. (Photographs by Shannon Greer for The New York Times)(pg. E6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); TICKET SALES (76%); THEATER (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%) Theater; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: Ben Sisario

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



299 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 15336 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Sept. 15 - Sept. 21

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the Northeast this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'A CHORUS LINE' Previews start on Monday. Opens on Oct. 5. The legendary musical about Broadway gypsies returns with Charlotte d'Amboise and Michael Berresse (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'JOHN FERGUSON' In previews; opens on Sept. 25. The Mint Theater unearths St. John Ervine's gritty piece of realism from 1919 about a pious farmer who can't make his mortgage payments (2:20). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 315-0231.

'FRINGE NYC ENCORES' Through Sept. 24. Ten hits from the New York International Fringe Festival return for a second run at two theaters. Shows include ''Billy the Mime,'' ''Walmartopia,'' ''Broken Hands,'' ''Danny Boy,'' ''Open House'' and others. The 14th Street Y, 344 East 14th Street, East Village; Lion Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton; (212) 279-4200.

'HEARTBREAK HOUSE' Previews start today. Opens on Oct 11. Roundabout revives Shaw's drama with a superb cast of theater pros, including Swoosie Kurtz, Philip Bosco and the always elegant Byron Jennings (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300.

'JAY JOHNSON: THE TWO AND ONLY' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on Sept 28. The ventriloquist, whose solo show ran at the Atlantic in 2004, talks about his mentor and career (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'LOSING LOUIE' Previews start on Thursday. Opens on Oct. 12. Mark Linn-Baker and Matthew Arkin star in Simon Mendes da Costa's family comedy, which spans 50 years. Jerry Zaks directs this West End transfer. (2:10). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'NIXON'S NIXON' Previews start on Wednesday. Opens on Oct 4. In this revival Russell Lees imagines the conversation between Nixon and Kissinger the night before Nixon resigned. Jim Simpson directs (1:30). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200.

'THE PAIN AND THE ITCH' In previews; opens on Thursday. Bruce Norris's drama about a dysfunctional family arrives in New York after a successful run at the Steppenwolf Theater in Chicago. Jayne Houdyshell and Reg Rogers star (2:15). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'THE PERSIANS' Runs tomorrow through Wednesday. Politics have made this relatively obscure ancient drama, about an arrogant ruler who rushes to war, suddenly popular. This latest production is by the National Theater of Greece (2:00). City Center, 100 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212.

'RICHARD II' In previews; opens on Sunday. Michael Cumpsty, who played Hamlet at the Classic Stage Company last season, returns to that downtown theater to headline Shakespeare's history play about a deeply flawed king (2:15). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.

'SUBURBIA' In previews; opens on Sept. 28. Eric Bogosian revamps his tale of youthful angst and alienation for the new millennium. Jo Bonney directs (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422.

'SISTERS' In previews; opens on Sunday. Anna Manahan, who won a Tony in 1998 for her performance in ''The Beauty Queen of Leenane,'' portrays two sisters in Declan Hassett's play set in the rural Ireland of the 1950's (1:30). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200.

'SOUTHERN COMFORTS' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on Oct. 4. Judith Ivey directs this drama about a widow and a widower who meet late in life. Presented by Primary Stages (2:00). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200.

Broadway

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, best book of a musical and best original score, 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920's stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, ''The Drowsy Chaperone'' has theatergoers responding as if they were withering houseplants finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the avid, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'THE HISTORY BOYS' (Tony Awards, best play and best direction of a play, 2006) Madly enjoyable. Alan Bennett's play about a battle for the hearts and minds of a group of university-bound students, imported with the original British cast from the National Theater, moves with a breezy narrative swagger that transcends cultural barriers. Directed by Nicholas Hytner, with a perfectly oiled ensemble led by the superb Richard Griffiths and Stephen Campbell Moore as schoolmasters with opposing views of history and education (2:40). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' (Tony Award, best musical, 2006) From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'MARTIN SHORT: FAME BECOMES ME' This eager and amiably scattershot satire of celebrity memoirs and Broadway musicals, starring the immodestly modest Mr. Short, arrives a little late to the table for such parody to taste fresh. With serviceably tuneful songs by Scott Wittman and Marc Shaiman (of ''Hairspray'' fame) (1:45). Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a superdeluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE WEDDING SINGER' An assembly-kit musical that might as well be called ''That 80's Show,'' this stage version of the 1998 film is all winks and nods and quotations from the era of big hair and junk bonds. The cast members, who include Stephen Lynch and Constantine Maroulis, are personable enough, which is not the same as saying they have personalities (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'FOGGY BOTTOM' James Armstrong's comedy about a Washingtonian who seduces women by promising them green cards has a nice sense of the ridiculous, but sometimes the action is unbelievable, even by the standards of farce (2:00). Abingdon Theater Arts Complex, 312 West 36th Street, (212) 868-4444.(Anita Gates)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'GARDEL: THE MUSICAL' A standard-issue bio-musical about the tango legend Carlos Gardel that wallows in melodrama (1:30). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9920. (Jason Zinoman)

'IT GOES WITHOUT SAYING' Bill Bowers's zestful, endearing one-man show is about his life as a mime, an actor and a gay boy growing up in Montana (1:15). Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, off Seventh Avenue South, Greenwich Village, (212) 868-4444. (Gates)

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' A powerfully sung revival of the 1968 revue, presented with affectionate nostalgia by the director Gordon Greenberg. As in the original, two men (Robert Cuccioli and Drew Sarich) and two women (Natascia Diaz and Gay Marshall) perform a wide selection of Brel's plaintive ballads and stirring anthems. Ms. Marshall's captivating performance of ''Ne Me Quitte Pas,'' sung in the original French and with heart-stirring transparency, represents Brel at his best (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

* 'SEVEN GUITARS' (2:45). Life and death dance cheek to cheek in this fine new revival of August Wilson's drama from 1996. Directed by Ruben Santiago-Hudson, and acted with absorbing restraint and immediacy, this is a truly life-size production, which means it is big indeed (2:45). Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529. (Brantley)

'SHOUT!' A miniskirted, go-go-booted zombie of a musical about women searching for love in London in the 1960's. You won't see anything this groovy, this far-out, this with-it outside of, oh, maybe the showroom of a Carnival cruise ship (1:30). Julia Miles Theater, 424 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'TEMPEST TOSSED FOOLS' This musical audience-participation children's version of ''The Tempest'' is rowdy, colorful and not all that Shakespearean. Manhattan Ensemble Theater, 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

* '[TITLE OF SHOW]' Jeff Bowen and Hunter Bell are the authors, stars and subject matter of this delectable new musical about its own making. The self-consciousness is tempered by a wonderful cast performing with the innocence of kids cavorting in a sandbox. It's a worthy postmodern homage to classic backstage musicals, and an absolute must for show queens (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

'I 3/5sheart 4/5 KANT' Keith Urban's nimble, knowing one-act is about four women (a graduate student, a heroin addict, a depressive and a bombing victim), the men in their lives and the little humiliations and unexpected certainties of daily existence (1:10). Linhart Theater at 440 Studios, 440 Lafayette Street, near Astor Place, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Gates)

Spectacles

'ABSINTHE' Think Cirque du Soleil as channeled through ''Rocky Horror'' and painted by George Grosz. Part cabaret, part circus, ''Absinthe'' aims for a kind of seedy decadence that's mingled with the simple, aw-shucks wonder of knife-jugglers, sword-swallowers and a man creating constructions out of soap bubbles. It's the main event at the Spiegeltent, a vintage European tradition visiting South Street Seaport this summer (1:30). Spiegeltent, at the former Fulton Fish Market site, Pier 17, South Street, under the Brooklyn Bridge, (212) 279-4200. (Anne Midgette)

'REVEREND BILLY AND THE CHURCH OF STOP-SHOPPING' Reverend Billy (a k a the performance artist Bill Talen) struts and preaches his way across the Spiegeltent stage accompanied by a choir and a fine seven-piece band. Radical political theater has rarely been more thoughtful or fun (1:30). Spiegeltent, at the former Fulton Fish Market site, Pier 17, South Street, under the Brooklyn Bridge, (212) 279-4200. (George Hunka)

Long-Running Shows

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'DRUMSTRUCK' Lightweight entertainment that stops just short of pulverizing the eardrums (1:30). 2005 New World Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin stir up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Van Gelder)

'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans. (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'THE HISTORY OF VALENTYNE AND ORSON' The director and puppet maker Ralph Lee makes a royal steed out of a hobby horse and a ferocious bear from cardboard and baseball mitts in this enchanting tale of a young prince and the ''wild man'' he befriends (1:05). The outdoor garden of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 929-4777; closes on Sunday. (Miriam Horn)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'ACCEPTED' (PG-13, 90 minutes) A clever slacker and his oddball crew invent a phony college in this passable example of that oxymoronic genre, the Hollywood comedy about sticking it to the man. (Nathan Lee)

'THE ANT BULLY' (PG, 90 minutes) A young boy goes to live among the ants, who talk remarkably like Academy Award-winning actors. (A. O. Scott)

* 'ARMY OF SHADOWS' (No rating, 140 (2:20)minutes, in French) Dark as pitch and without compromise, Jean-Pierre Melville's 1969 masterpiece centers on the feats of a small band of Resistance fighters during the occupation. Brilliant, harrowing, essential viewing.(Manohla Dargis)

'BARNYARD' (PG, 88 minutes) The barnyard animals in this crude 3-D animation walk, talk and party down like human beings. Way too often the male ''cows,'' as the film calls them, also flash their udders. (Dargis)

'BEERFEST' (R, 110 minutes) In ''Beerfest,'' a gaseous celebration of binge drinking and family honor, the five comedians known collectively as Broken Lizard head for Munich and an underground beer-guzzling contest. Best viewed while sloshed, the movie is idiotic, tasteless and irrepressibly good-natured: in other words, a frat-house classic. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

'BOYNTON BEACH CLUB' (No rating, 104 minutes) A fast-paced romantic comedy about frisky 60-something residents of a Florida ''active adult'' community, ''Boynton Beach Club'' is a rose-colored fantasy about aging that has just enough credibility to make you care about its characters and wish them merrily on their way. (Stephen Holden)

'A CANTOR'S TALE' (No rating, 95 minutes) Jovial, rotund and prone to impromptu bursts of song, Cantor Jacob Mendelson has dedicated his life to preserving the Jewish liturgical music known as chazzanut. Erik Greenberg Anjou's charming documentary is more concerned with singing praises than arguing over orthodoxies, while interviews with an uncharacteristically subdued Jackie Mason and Alan Dershowitz suggest an awareness that they're in the presence of greater voices. (Catsoulis)

'CARS' (G, 114 minutes) The latest 3-D toon from Pixar just putt-putt-putts along, a shining model of technological progress and consumer safety. John Lasseter directed, and Owen Wilson provides the voice of the little red race car who learns all the right lessons from, among others, a 1951 Hudson Hornet given voice by Paul Newman. (Dargis)

'The Celestine Prophecy' (PG, 100 minutes) A delectable fusion of New Age babble and luridly bad filmmaking based on the best-selling book by James Redfield. (Dargis)

'CLICK' (PG-13, 98 minutes) Adam Sandler stars in this unfunny comedy about a harried family man who uses a universal remote to hop-scotch through time. It's a wonderful life, not. (Dargis)

'THE COVENANT' (PG-13, 97 minutes) The director Renny Harlin proves that ''Exorcist: The Beginning'' was not the nadir of his career with this thriller about boy witches fending off a nefarious transfer student. (Lee)

'CRANK' (R, 83 minutes) A poisoned hit man rampages in Los Angeles, doling revenge on his nemesis and misanthropy on all. Basically a broken-down retread of ''Speed,'' with Jason Stratham as the bus. (Lee)

'CROSSOVER' (PG-13, 95 minutes) Bling is bad, and friends are good in this story of temptation, rivalry and cheerleaders, set in the world of Detroit street basketball. (Lee)

* 'THE DESCENT' (R, 99 minutes) A total horror freakout from the British writer and director Neil Marshall about six women on a caving expedition who meet their fears and some scary monsters, too. (Dargis)

'THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA' (PG-13, 106 minutes) Lauren Weisberger's score-settling best seller about a terrible (and famous) boss is reimagined and reversed. Anne Hathaway plays the beleaguered assistant, but she is much less interesting -- and in the end less sympathetic -- than the boss, Miranda Priestly, incarnated by Meryl Streep as a subtle and searching (and very funny) portrait of glamour and power. (Scott)

* 'FACTOTUM' (R, 94 minutes) Matt Dillon goes deep to play Henry Chinaski, the familiar alter ego of the great Charles Bukowski, who survived countless benders, brawls, rejection slips, crazy women and soul-killing jobs. The Norwegian filmmaker Bent Hamer directed. (Dargis)

* 'Half Nelson' (R, 107 minutes) In their beautiful bummer about the relationship between a white teacher (Ryan Gosling) and a black student (Shareeka Epps), the gifted young director Ryan Fleck and his writing partner, Anna Boden, offer a lament for the radical fires of the 1960's and a suggestion for life and politics after the new left. (Dargis)

* 'HEADING SOUTH' (No rating, 105 minutes, in English and French) Sex tourism involving middle-aged white women and black beach boys at a Haitian resort in the late 1970's is the subject of Laurent Cantet's third film, one of the most truthful explorations of desire, age and youth ever filmed, with a politically charged subtext about capitalist imperialism. (Holden)

'HOLLYWOODLAND' (R, 126 minutes) A fictional look at the life and downward-spiraling times of George Reeves, the man who played Superman on television and is here played by a fine Ben Affleck. Allen Coulter directs Paul Bernbaum's screenplay, which features a dead-end parallel plot about a detective (Adrien Brody). (Dargis)

'HOW TO EAT FRIED WORMS' (PG, 98 minutes) The worms go in, the worms go out, but mostly the worms go into the frying pan in Bob Dolman's engaging and yucky adaptation of the Thomas Rockwell book. (Dargis)

* 'HOUSE OF SAND' (R, 115 minutes, in Portuguese) Beautifully shot in a sandy, remote corner of northern Brazil, this film tells the story of three generations of women, all of them played by Fernanda Montenegro and Fernanda Torres, mother and daughter in real life and two of the national treasures of Brazilian cinema. (Scott)

'IDLEWILD' (R, 120 minutes) Andre Benjamin and Antwan A. Patton, a k a Andre 3000 and Big Boi of OutKast, play friends living and sometimes singing in Depression-era Georgia. The joint doesn't jump; it twitches and stumbles. (Dargis)

* 'THE ILLUSIONIST' (PG-13, 109 minutes) This film tells the story of Eisenheim (Edward Norton), a fictional conjurer who enraptured Viennese audiences in 1900 with his supernatural magic shows. A terrific yarn, it rouses your slumbering belief in the miraculous. (Holden)

* 'AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH' (PG, 96 minutes) Al Gore gives a lecture on climate change. One of the most exciting and necessary movies of the year. Seriously. (Scott)

'INVINCIBLE' (PG, 99 minutes) The latest addition to the Disney stable of sports-underdog movies, ''Invincible'' is the true story of Vince Papale (Mark Wahlberg), a substitute teacher and part-time bartender, who in 1976 realizes his dream of playing for the Philadelphia Eagles. While Disney piles on the uplift, the director and cinematographer, Ericson Core, counters the story's predictably inspirational trajectory with close attention to historical detail and blue-collar hardship. (Catsoulis)

* 'LASSIE' (PG, 100 minutes) Everything old is new again in the 11th film about the beloved pooch with the I.Q. of a grad student and the instincts of a boomerang. Blissfully restored to the period and location of Eric Knight's original novel -- pre-World War Britain -- the movie balances humor and pathos with old-fashioned charm and not a trace of satire. Progressive adults may balk at the film's ultimate capitulation to the power of patronage, but tykes will just be happy that Lassie has come home once more to the multiplex where she belongs. (Catsoulis)

'LE PETIT LIEUTENANT' (No rating, 110 minutes, in French) A tough, satisfying drama from Xavier Beauvois about an alcoholic Parisian detective (Nathalie Baye) and the young lieutenant (Jalil Lespert) who comes under her wing. (Dargis)

'LITTLE MAN' (PG-13, 90 minutes) A belligerent midget jewel thief assaults groins and molests women in this infantile comedy from the Wayans brothers. (Lee)

* 'Little Miss Sunshine' (R, 101 minutes) A bittersweet comedy of dysfunction that takes place at the terminus of the American dream. The excellent cast includes Greg Kinnear, Steve Carell, Toni Collette, Paul Dano and that national treasure, Alan Arkin. (Dargis)

* 'MAN PUSH CART' (No rating, 87 minutes) The Sisyphean daily grind of a Pakistani immigrant who sells coffee, doughnuts and bagels from a cart in Midtown Manhattan is an exemplary work of independent filmmaking carried out on a shoestring. At its best, it suggests an American ''Bicycle Thief.'' (Holden)

* 'MONSTER HOUSE' (PG, 86 minutes) This scary movie for kids provides more fun in 86 minutes than all the other would-be summer blockbusters combined. Three intrepid youngsters face down a demonic dwelling in a quiet suburb. The motion-capture animation produces an uncanny feeling of realism, while the fantastical effects are spooky, witty and spectacular. (Scott)

'MY SUPER EX-GIRLFRIEND' (PG-13, 110 minutes) A shaky comedy from the director Ivan Reitman, in which ''Fatal Attraction'' meets ''Wonder Woman,'' by way of Uma Thurman, Luke Wilson and some sexist she-devil cliches, some funny, others not. (Dargis)

* 'MUTUAL APPRECIATION' (No rating, 110 minutes)Andrew Bujalski's wonderful independent film about friendship in the modern world looks like something that came out of a time capsule, but there's nothing dusty about it. Shot on expressively grainy black-and-white celluloid, it is the sort of unassuming discovery that could suffer from too much big love, and while it won't save or change your life, it may make your heart swell. Its aim is modest and true. (Dargis)

'PAPER DOLLS' (No rating, 80 minutes, in Hebrew, English and Tagalog) A small, touching documentary about Phillipine transexuals living in Israel. (Scott)

'Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest' (PG-13, 151 minutes) Although there are memorable bits and pieces, this is a movie with no particular interest in coherence, economy or feeling. (Scott)

'THE PROTECTOR' (R, 84 minutes, in Thai) A provincial Thai warrior rampages through Australia, busting skulls and shouting, ''You stole my elephants!'' in this infectious B-movie smackdown. (Lee)

'QUEENS' (No rating, 107 minutes, in Spanish) A dithering but generous Spanish farce, ''Queens'' follows the forthcoming nuptials of three gay couples by focusing on their overbearing mothers. While the sons dance, bicker and fret over antiques, the mamas express their discomfort with the wedding plans by seducing inappropriate men. Despite obvious nods to Pedro Almodovar, ''Queens'' is notable only for its unadulterated worship of middle-aged women. (Catsoulis)

* 'QUINCEANERA' (R, 90 minutes) This portrait of a Mexican-American family living in a Latino neighborhood of Los Angeles is as smart and warm-hearted an exploration of an upwardly mobile immigrant culture as American independent cinema has produced. (Holden)

'RED DOORS' (No rating, 90 minutes) This agreeable, lightweight movie, written and directed by Georgia Lee, turns the malaises of a dysfunctional suburban Chinese-American family into a bittersweet farce that teeters between cheeky humor and surface pathos. (Holden)

'RIDING ALONE FOR THOUSANDS OF MILES' (PG, 108 minutes, in Mandarin) Zhang Yimou takes a pause between marital-arts extravaganzas with this simple, affecting melodrama about a mournful Japanese patriarch on an odyssey through rural China. (Lee)

'Satellite' (No rating, 100 minutes) In this captivating romantic fairy tale for grown-ups, made on a shoestring, two young lovers in New York flee yuppie hell into a life of petty theft. (Holden)

* 'Scoop' (PG-13, 96 minutes) A not especially funny yet oddly appealing comedy in which Woody Allen and Scarlett Johansson make like Nick and Nora, but with more shtick and no martinis (or Asta). (Dargis)

'SHERRYBABY' (No rating, 96 minutes) This story of a young woman, just released from prison, trying to put her life back together, is somewhat predictable, but well observed by Laurie Collyer, the writer and director, and beautifully realized by Maggie Gyllenhaal in the principal role. (Scott)

'SNAKES ON A PLANE' (R, 105 minutes) Snakes + plane + Samuel L. Jackson. David R. Ellis provides the fine B-movie-style direction, while Mr. Jackson supplies the cool and his trademark epithet. (Dargis)

'STEP UP' (PG-13, 98 minutes) Ever since Kevin Bacon's rebellious hips ignited a small-town uproar in ''Footloose,'' the modern high school romance has placed a premium on rhythm. In ''Step Up'' a rough Baltimore kid (Channing Tatum), armed only with a killer smile and hip-hop moves, falls for a classically trained dancer (Jenna Dewan). Bland but likable, the movie fashions social equality from big musical numbers. If ballet and hip-hop can coexist, it asks, why can't we all be friends? (Catsoulis)

'TALLADEGA NIGHTS: THE BALLAD OF RICKY BOBBY' (PG-13, 110 minutes) Fast, fun and silly, with Will Ferrell as a Nascar driver, Sacha Baron Cohen as his nemesis, and a new course record for product placements per gallon. (Scott)

'13 Tzameti' (No rating, 90 minutes) The flashy black-and-white directorial debut of the Georgian filmmaker Gela Babluani is a sadistic, arty thriller that suggests a French New Wave film infected by a virulent strain of Eastern European nihilism. (Holden)

* 'THIS FILM IS NOT YET RATED' (No rating, 97 minutes) Kirby Dick, with the help of a private detective, investigates the mysterious workings of the Motion Picture Association of America, a highly secretive, deeply irrational organization with enormous influence over what we see -- and don't see -- on movie screens. (Scott)

'TRUST THE MAN' (R, 101 minutes) A strained, flatulent relationship comedy about two couples, from the writer and director Bart Freundlich. With Julianne Moore, David Duchovny, Maggie Gyllenhaal and Billy Crudup. (Dargis)

* 'ANDY WARHOL: A DOCUMENTARY FILM' (No rating, 4 hours with an intermission) Ric Burns's absorbing four-hour critical biography of this seminal Pop artist is devoted to the proposition that Warhol was the greatest artist of the second half of the 20th century, as Picasso was in the first. It makes a mostly persuasive, highly entertaining case for that claim. (Holden)

'the WICKER MAN' (PG-13, 106 minutes) In remaking a 1973 British horror classic, Neil LaBute once again demonstrates his misogyny and, worse, his technical incompetence. (Scott)

* 'WORLD TRADE CENTER' (PG-13, 129 minutes) From Oliver Stone, a return to the emotions of 9/11. Powerful and almost unbearably moving. (Scott)

Film Series

ANOTHER WAVE: GLOBAL QUEER CINEMA (Through tomorrow) The Museum of Modern Art's festival of gay films and shorts from more than two dozen countries ends this weekend with one feature and a series of five short films. ''Memento Mori: Films by Jim Hubbard'' includes a work in progress about the history of Act Up; Anahi Berneri's drama ''A Year Without Love'' (2005), from Argentina, is the story of a young writer with AIDS who learns to eroticize his pain. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400, www.moma.org; $10. (Anita Gates)

THE FABULOUS ART OF SURVIVAL: LECH KOWALSKI (Through Sept. 26) BAMcinematek's two-week tribute to the punk filmmaker Mr. Kowalski, which began on Tuesday, continues next week with two films. ''Gringo'' (1985) is a gritty, partly documentary portrait of a New York heroin addict. ''On Hitler's Highway'' (2002), a documentary road movie, includes a side trip to Auschwitz. BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100, www.bam.org; $10. (Gates)

JEAN-CLAUDE CARRIERE'S LANGUAGE OF FILM (Through Sept. 27) BAMcinematek's series honoring Mr. Carriere, the prolific French screenwriter, continues this weekend with three films. ''The Outside Man'' (1972) stars Jean-Louis Trintignant as a French hit man on a job in Los Angeles. ''Belle de Jour'' (1967) stars Catherine Deneuve as a bored newlywed who takes a day job at a tasteful brothel. Volker Schlondorff's Oscar-winning allegory ''The Tin Drum'' (1979) was adapted by Mr. Carriere (and a few co-writers) from Gunter Grass's novel. BAM Rose Cinemas (see above); $10. (Gates)

KUROSAWA (Through Monday) The IFC Center's five-month series honoring Akira Kurosawa comes to a close with ''High and Low'' (1963), a drama about a businessman in a devastating moral quandary over the kidnapping of a child. Toshiro Mifune stars, of course. 323 Avenue of the Americas, at West Third Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 924-7771, www.ifccenter.com; $10.75. (Gates)

MIZOGUCHI (Through Sept. 21) Film Forum's two-week series honoring the Japanese master director Kenzi Mizoguchi (1898-1956) continues this weekend with two features. ''Sansho the Bailiff'' (1954) is his acclaimed drama about an exiled governor whose children are sold into slavery. ''The Life of Oharu'' (1952), about a samurai's daughter in love with a man beneath her class, was Toshiro Mifune's only Mizoguchi film. 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8112, www.filmforum.com; $10. (Gates)

THE SUPPORTING CAST: AS BRIGHT AS THE STARS (Through Sept. 26) Symphony Space's series of double features honoring the names well below the title continues this weekend with two 1954 dramas. Hitchcock's ''Rear Window'' features Thelma Ritter, Raymond Burr and Wendell Corey. The supporting cast of Elia Kazan's ''On the Waterfront'' includes Karl Malden, Lee J. Cobb and Rod Steiger. 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, www.symphonyspace.org; $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

* NATACHA ATLAS (Tonight) Musical globalism often works best on the dance floor, where traditions from anywhere, new or old, can mingle and flirt as long as the beat is good. Ms. Atlas, born in Belgium to Jewish and Muslim parents, with family ties to Morocco and Egypt, is a natural multiculturalist. In a strong, sensuous voice, and with the help of bubbly electronic beats, she brings North African, Middle Eastern and Indian styles together; her newest album, ''Mish Maoul'' (Mantra), throws in some rap too. She opens the World Music Institute's season with an all-acoustic ensemble. At 8, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 545-7536, symphonyspace.org or worldmusicinstitute.org; $32; $15 for students. (Ben Sisario)

* CHARLES AZNAVOUR (Monday and Tuesday) This legendary French-Armenian music hall entertainer, now 82, is an ageless, sad-faced everyman who brings the skills of a great character actor and mime to his spellbinding performance. This is his farewell tour. At 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com; $44.50 to $154.50. (Stephen Holden)

BALKAN BEAT BOX (Tomorrow) Suddenly Balkan brass bands are the hottest sound in dance music. This New York group plays a combustible mix of big, bright horns and high-energy electronic beats. With Sway Machinery. At 8 p.m., Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $15 in advance, $17 at the door. (Sisario)

DAN BERN, HAMELL ON TRIAL (Tomorrow night) With a nasal sing-speak that recalls the young Bob Dylan, Dan Bern offers smooth folk-rock and a world-weary cynicism. (''There's nothing innocent about a newborn babe,'' he sings, ''that a few years here can't cure.'') Ed Hamell, a k a Hamell on Trial, is a manic and sharp-tongued comedian-raconteur who is merciless toward his acoustic guitar. At 7, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; $18.50 in advance, $20 at the door. (Sisario)

CITIZEN COPE (Tonight) Clarence Greenwood, a k a Citizen Cope, is the umpteenth singer-songwriter to use hip-hop beats and drawled, rap-sung vocals in search of novelty. At 6:30, Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; $30. (Sisario)

BRUCE COCKBURN (Tomorrow) One of Canada's most revered songwriters since the 1970's, Bruce Cockburn sings about love, politics and spiritual yearning, all tied together by his thoughtful, sympathetic voice and guitar playing that's a quietly virtuosic melding of folk and jazz. At 8 p.m., the Concert Hall at the New York Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, concertstonight.com; $30 and $35. (Jon Pareles)

DASTAN ENSEMBLE WITH PARISSA (Tomorrow) Parissa, a leading traditional singer from Iran, has a repertory that includes both classical Persian music and Sufi songs; she is one of very few female performers from Iran who tour internationally. She will be joining the Dastan Ensemble, which plays classical Persian music: an improvisatory tradition that builds from meditative melodies to dazzling virtuosity. At 8 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 545-7536, symphonyspace.org or worldmusicinstitute.org; $35 and $40; $15 for students. (Pareles)

ELYSIAN FIELDS (Thursday) Elysian Fields plays languid songs that sound best in a late-night haze, as Jennifer Charles's breathy voice hints at decadence and vulnerability, while Oren Bloedow wraps the songs in slinky, deadpan guitar. At 8:30 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7503, tonicnyc.com; $12 in advance, $15 at the door. (Pareles)

GOLDEN SMOG (Sunday) Even heartsick alt-country has its celebrity supergroups. Golden Smog includes Jeff Tweedy of Wilco, Dan Murphy of Soul Asylum, Gary Louris and Marc Perlman of the Jayhawks, and Kraig Johnson of Run Westy Run. With Tim O'Reagan. At 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $25 in advance, $30 at the door. (Sisario)

THE KILLS (Tonight) Part White Stripes and part Sonic Youth, the Kills play a barbed and bluesy garage rock that sounds always on the brink of collapse. With Effi Priest and Mr. J. Carpenter. At 8, Southpaw, 125 Fifth Avenue, near Sterling Place, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 230-0236, spsounds.com; $15. (Sisario)

JOHN LEGEND (Monday) This 27-year-old singer of passionate and stylish R&B, who won three Grammys this year, offers a preview of songs from his new album, due next month. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. (Sisario)

MAN MAN (Tonight and tomorrow night) Man Man, from Philadelphia, follows the expressive gutter cabaret of Tom Waits into a kinetic chaos that has more than a little Captain Beefheart in it. Formed three years ago, the band quickly acquired a high profile for its energetic live shows. Tonight at 9:30, with Coyote and Tiny Masters of Today, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $10. Tomorrow at midnight, Spiegeltent, Fulton Fish Market, Pier 17, Fulton and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, spiegelworld.com; $15. (Sisario)

* NEW YORK SALSA FESTIVAL (Tomorrow) The 31st annual installment of this essential Latin concert features Willie Colon, Cheo Feliciano, Tito Rojas, Lalo Rodriguez, Ismael Miranda, Tito Nieves, Cano Estremera, Tony Vega, Michael Stuart, Jose Alberto (El Canario), Adalberto Santiago, Yomo Toro and the return of Domingo Quinones. At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $45 to $110. (Sisario)

PINK MARTINI (Monday and Tuesday) The Hollywood lounge band gone global, this 12-or-so-piece ensemble from Portland, Ore., follows a glamour jet stream from Rio to Havana to Paris. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, the-townhall-nyc.org; $25 and $35. (Sisario)

SANTANA (Tomorrow and Sunday) Using rock instruments to supercharge a salsa band -- or is it vice versa? -- the guitarist Carlos Santana came up with a prototype three decades ago for Latin rock, jazz rock, world music and far-reaching jam bands. He clutters his albums with guest singers to make a run at the pop charts, but on tour the guests are out of the way, and the music soars. Tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., Nikon at Jones Beach Theater, Wantagh, N.Y., (516) 221-1000, nikonjonesbeach.com; Sunday at 7:30 p.m., PNC Bank Arts Center, Holmdel, N.J., (732) 335-8698, artscenter.com; $20 to $75. (Pareles)

TORTOISE (Sunday) After 16 years as the one followed by all other post-rock, neo-jazz-fusion bands (and there are quite a few), Tortoise, from Chicago, still has some surprises. This year it released an album with Bonnie (Prince) Billy that includes truly idiosyncratic versions of songs by Elton John, Devo and Bruce Springsteen, as well as a retrospective box set that remains entrancing through all four discs. With the Notekillers. At 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $20. (Sisario)

THE WHO (Monday, Tuesday and Thursday) Down to just Pete Townshend and Roger Daltrey (with hired guns), the Who has made an ambitious play by recording its first new album in 24 years, to be released next month. But the real surprise is just how good it is; based on ''Wire & Glass,'' the teaser EP released in Britain this summer, it is a throwback to the expansive, rock-opera brilliance of ''Quadrophenia.'' With Peeping Tom. Monday and Tuesday at 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $56.50 to $256.50. Thursday at 7:30 p.m., PNC Bank Arts Center, Holmdel, N.J., (732) 335-8698, artscenter.com; $48.75 to $258.75. (Sisario)

WIDESPREAD PANIC (Tonight and tomorrow night) Widespread Panic, from Georgia, leans toward the Southern-rock side of the Allman Brothers-Grateful Dead axis, but like any good jam band, it's flexible and then some. At 8 p.m., Radio City Music Hall, (212) 307-7171, radiocity.com; $50. (Pareles)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

HORACEE ARNOLD QUARTET/TRINITY (Tonight) The New York chapter of the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians presents one of its sporadic concerts, featuring a quartet led by the drummer Horacee Arnold, with Marcus Strickland on saxophones, Orrin Evans on piano and Buster Williams on bass; and Trinity, a collective consisting of the saxophonist Patience Higgins, the Hammond B-3 organist Lonnie Gasparini, the percussionist Thurman Baker and the poet Mikhail Horowitz. At 8, Community Church of New York, 40 East 35th Street, Manhattan, (212) 683-4988, aacm-newyork.com; $25. (Nate Chinen)

OMER AVITAL GROUP (Wednesday) The bassist Omer Avital has a new live album, ''The Ancient Art of Giving,'' on Smalls Records, which delivers the compact jolt of his chamberlike compositions. For this one-night stand at Smalls, he leads a group including the trumpeter Avishai Cohen, the tenor and soprano saxophonist Joel Frahm, the pianist Jason Lindner and the drummer Johnathan Blake. At 10:30 p.m. and midnight, Smalls, 183 West 10th Street, West Village, (212) 675-7369, fatcatjazz.com; cover, $20. (Chinen)

THE BAD PLUS/JASON MORAN AND THE BANDWAGON (Through Sunday) Two trios, both plumbing the territory between melodic abstraction and gut-level groove, both featuring an erudite pianist and both involving a turbulent and unconventional drummer. This may turn out to be the most thought-provoking double bill to come under a mainstream banner this fall. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $30 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

BILLY BANG (Tonight and tomorrow night) As a violinist and composer, Mr. Bang favors astringency and formal tension, qualities that come naturally to the musicians he has assembled here: the trumpeter Ted Daniels, the saxophonist and flutist James Spaulding, the pianist Andrew Bemkey, the bassist Todd Nicholson and the drummer Newman Taylor Baker. At 8 and 10, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

TIM BERNE'S HARD CELL (Tonight) With his recent album ''Feign'' (Screwgun), the alto saxophonist and composer Tim Berne advanced a volatile yet groove-oriented approach to experimental chamber music. Here he reconvenes Hard Cell, the fine ensemble from that album: David Torn on guitar and electronics, Craig Taborn on keyboards and Tom Rainey on drums. At 10, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

JOHN COLTRANE 80TH-BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION (Wednesday and Thursday) Countless tenor saxophonists have adapted John Coltrane's sound and style over the years, but few have personalized it more effectively than Joe Lovano, who headlines here with the pianist Steve Kuhn, who briefly worked with Coltrane, and the serious-minded rhythm section of Lonnie Plaxico, bassist, and Andrew Cyrille, drummer. At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

* COLTRANE FESTIVAL (Through tomorrow) John Coltrane would have turned 80 this month, and Jazz at Lincoln Center has decided to open its new season with a celebration of his music. At the Rose Theater Wynton Marsalis is leading the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra in a concert featuring arrangements of Coltrane themes. In the Allen Room the vocalist Kevin Mahogany and the saxophonist Todd Williams will pay tribute to Coltrane's album with the baritone Johnny Hartman, with Eric Reed on piano, Reginald Veal on bass and Herlin Riley on drums. The Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra performs at 8 p.m., and Kevin Mahogany performs at 7:30 and 9:30, at Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, jalc.org; $37.50 to $127.50 for the Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra; $67.50 for Kevin Mahogany. (Chinen)

DIET COKE WOMEN IN JAZZ FESTIVAL (Through Thursday) This monthlong festival of female jazz artists continues with the beloved pianist and radio personality Marian McPartland, with her trio (through Sunday); the singer Datevik Hovanesian (7:30 p.m. on Monday) and the saxophonist Tia Fuller, with her quintet (9:30 p.m. on Monday); and the pianist and vocalist Eliane Elias, performing music from her recent RCA Victor album, ''Around the City'' (Tuesday through Thursday). There are also good offerings during the club's after-hours sets, including the singers Andrea Wolper (tonight) and Kate McGarry (tomorrow). At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, or $10 for after-hours sets, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

MARK DRESSER AND RAZ MESINAI (Thursday) Mr. Dresser is a bassist with a full range of experimental techniques; Mr. Mesinai is a composer with a broad palette of electronic devices. Their duo performance should be a study in texture, but not without a sense of pulse. At 8:30 p.m., Roulette at Location One, 20 Greene Street, at Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 219-8242, roulette.org; $15. (Chinen)

FATBLASTER (Thursday) A confab of adventurous trumpeters, representing three overlapping levels of experience: Ralph Alessi, an accomplished leader and educator; Shane Endsley, a prominent up-and-comer; and Eric Biondo, who seems most likely to have been behind the band's prankish name. The saxophonist Alex Hamlin and the guitarist Ryan Ferreira round out the group, without adding an ounce of flab. At 9 and 10 p.m., Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; no cover. (Chinen)

* FESTIVAL OF NEW TRUMPET MUSIC (Through Thursday) This laudably expansive survey of contemporary trumpeters, organized by Dave Douglas, begins its fourth season this weekend, and one of its most promising events happens early. Tomorrow night at Merkin Concert Hall, Mr. Douglas and another trumpeter, Roy Campbell, revisit the music of Don Cherry, notably including the 1966 album ''Symphony for Improvisers.'' Next week the action moves to the Jazz Standard, with a parade of players including Avishai Cohen, Jeremy Pelt and Keyon Harrold (on Tuesday); Taylor Ho Bynum and Stephen Haynes (Wednesday); and Ingrid Jensen and Lina Allemano (Thursday). Tomorrow at 8:30 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, (212) 501-3330, kaufman-center.org; $35 ($30 in advance). The festival continues on Tuesday at the Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25. For a full festival schedule, visit fontmusic.org. (Chinen)

FULTON STREET BEAT FESTIVAL (Tomorrow) This free outdoor concert features three different perspectives on New Orleans rhythm, each compelling in its own fashion. Second-line groove drives the Jambalaya Brass Band, which plays at 1 p.m., while funk and soul provide the steam for a quintet led by the trumpeter Maurice Brown, at 2:30. New Orleans jazz, in both modern and traditional iterations, animates the final group, led by the saxophonist and clarinetist Victor Goines. At 1 p.m., Fulton Street Mall, DeKalb Avenue at Albee Square West, Downtown Brooklyn, (718) 488-8200, fultonstreet.org; free. (Chinen)

GAME PIECE FOR STRING INSTRUMENTS (Tomorrow) Suzanne Fiol, the artistic director of the Issue Project Room on the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn, conducts this experimental happening for more than a dozen improvisers, including Miya Masaoka on koto, Jane Scarpantoni on cello and Lucian Buscemi on bass. At 8 p.m., Issue Project Room, 400 Carroll Street, between Bond and Nevins Streets, Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, (718) 330-0313, issueprojectroom.org; cover, $10. (Chinen)

TOM HARRELL-VINCENT HERRING QUINTET (Tonight and tomorrow night) Tom Harrell, a tersely lyrical trumpeter, and Vincent Herring, a voluble alto saxophonist, share a preference for high-octane post-bop. Their ensemble includes Nat Adderley Jr. on piano, Richie Goods on bass and Quincy Davis on drums. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $25. (Chinen)

FRED HERSCH TRIO (Tuesday through Thursday) Fred Hersch is a pianist associated with solo piano recitals, including a week's worth at the Village Vanguard early this year. He returns to the Vanguard with the bassist Drew Gress and the drummer Nasheet Waits, his regular rhythm partners; together they apply a rigorous yet elastic interpretative style to originals and standards alike. At 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

GLENN KOTCHE AND NELS CLINE/JENNY LIN (Monday) Mr. Kotche, who plays drums with the rock band Wilco, has an engrossing new solo percussion album (''Mobile,'' on Nonesuch) that reinforces his new-music credentials. Mr. Cline, Wilco's lead guitarist, also has a new album (''New Monastery,'' on Cryptogramophone), which thoughtfully investigates the compositions of the jazz pianist Andrew Hill. Performing as a duo here, Mr. Kotche and Mr. Cline are likely to incorporate extended techniques and artful atonality; it makes a certain sense that they will follow a piano recital by Jenny Lin, with a repertory including Ligeti, Shostakovich and Elliott Sharp, who will join her on electronics. At 7:30 p.m., Good Shepherd-Faith Presbyterian Church, 152 West 66th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 877-0685, wordlessmusic.org; $19.99. (Chinen)

DAVID LIEBMAN 60TH-BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Liebman, an incantatory saxophonist and flutist working in the idiom established by John Coltrane, caps off his birthday celebration at Birdland with a big band directed by the saxophonist and educator Gunnar Mossblad (tonight) and a tribute to the music of Coltrane and Miles Davis, featuring Ravi Coltrane on tenor and soprano saxophone, Randy Brecker on trumpet, Phil Markowitz on piano, Cecil McBee on bass and Adam Nussbaum on drums (tomorrow). At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080, birdlandjazz.com; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

KEN PEPLOWSKI (Tonight) Mr. Peplowski is a clarinetist dedicated to traditional jazz, a preference that should not be mistaken for a limitation. He also plays tenor saxophone and surrounds himself with other accomplished musicians, like the bassist Sean Smith and the percussionist Chuck Reed, who play here. At 7 p.m., Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, Ext. 344, www.rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen)

NED ROTHENBERG (Tonight) Mr. Rothenberg is a saxophonist, clarinetist, flutist and composer with a penchant for insistent frictions, as he demonstrates on a strong new album, ''The Fell Clutch'' (Animul). Tonight he celebrates his 50th birthday with a roll call of more than a dozen fellow experimentalists, including the saxophonists John Zorn and Marty Ehrlich, the guitarist Marc Ribot and the bassists Jerome Harris and Stomu Takeishi. On Tuesday Mr. Rothenberg leads a smaller coterie: Mark Dresser on bass, Kazu Uchihashi on guitar and Susie Ibarra on drums. Tonight at 8, Issue Project Room, 400 Carroll Street, between Bond and Nevins Streets, Brooklyn, (718) 330-0313, issueprojectroom.org; sold out. Tuesday at 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $10. (Chinen)

KERMIT RUFFINS AND THE BARBECUE SWINGERS (Sunday) The tradition of New Orleans-bred trumpeter-entertainers has an especially robust representative in Mr. Ruffins, who appears here with his celebrated working band. At 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 539-8778, joespub.com; cover, $15, with a two-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JIMMY SCOTT (Through Sunday) Mr. Scott's piercing voice and achingly emotional style are rightfully enshrined in the annals of songbook interpretation. At 8:30 and 10:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121, iridiumjazzclub.com; cover, $35, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

LUCIANA SOUZA: BRAZILIAN DUOS (Through Sunday) Luciana Souza, a vocalist raised in Sao Paolo, has made some of her most beguiling music in this format, joined by a lone acoustic guitar. Romero Lubambo, the guitarist, is more than an accompanist; providing intricate counterpoint and rhythmic undertow, he is Ms. Souza's equal. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25; $30 tonight and tomorrow. (Chinen)

* MCCOY TYNER TRIO WITH PHAROAH SANDERS (Tuesday through Thursday) The pianist McCoy Tyner and the tenor saxophonist Pharoah Sanders are indelibly associated with the 1960's output of John Coltrane, though each enjoyed a productive period as a solo artist in the 70's and beyond. They combine their searching energies here in a quartet with Charnett Moffett on bass and Eric Kamau Gravatt on drums. (Through Sept. 24.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592, bluenote.net; cover, $45 at tables, $30 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

WILLIAMSBURG JAZZ FESTIVAL (Through Sunday) This grass-roots affair, which briefly subsumes a small swatch of Brooklyn with modern jazz, hits full stride this weekend, with notable performances at Laila Lounge (the trumpeter Ralph Alessi, tonight at 11); Galapagos (the cellist Dana Leong, tomorrow night at 8, and the trumpeter Maurice Brown, tomorrow night at 10); and Rose Live Music (the singer Gretchen Parlato, tomorrow night at 10, and the pianist Jason Lindner, tomorrow night at midnight). The festival closes, oddly enough, on the Lower East Side, at Tonic (the saxophonist Sabir Mateen with the festival's organizer, the trumpeter Jesse Selengut, Sunday at 8 p.m.). Times and locations vary; full schedule, fullcircledrumming.com/wjazzfestival. (Chinen)

* CASSANDRA WILSON/CHRISTIAN SCOTT (Wednesday) A jazz singer by training and temperament, Ms. Wilson takes obvious pleasure in a boundless, genre-blind repertory, a tendency borne out vividly on her most recent album, ''Thunderbird'' (Blue Note). It's a recording with the seamless sensibility of a modern studio concoction, but Ms. Wilson, often a deeply magnetic performer, should be able to carry it off in concert. The opener is Christian Scott, an excellent young trumpeter whose recent debut, ''Rewind That'' (Concord), signaled his intention to explore a modern funk-based sound. At 8 p.m., Town Hall, 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824, the-townhall-nyc.org; $45 and $35. (Chinen)

STEPHANE WREMBEL (Sunday) Virtually every Sunday night for the last three years, Mr. Wrembel, a French guitarist, has been playing the music of the Gypsy guitar hero Django Reinhardt at Barbes. This Sunday Mr. Wrembel marks his anniversary at the club with three sets, loosely tracing the chronological arc of Mr. Reinhardt's career. At 8 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177, barbesbrooklyn.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

 Opera

'LA BOHEME' (Tomorrow and Thursday) Updated to the years around World War I, this is one of New York City Opera's best productions, and some fine young talents should make this run of it worth hearing. Shu-Ying Li, the Mimi, has shown a really striking soprano on past occasions; James Valenti, her Rodolfo, was a promising Met Council winner in 2002; Elisabeth Caballero, the Musetta, made a very good City Opera debut last season; and Daniel Mobbs, the Marcello, has been proving himself reliably at Caramoor and elsewhere for several years. George Manahan, the company's music director, conducts. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., Thursday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $25 to $125. (Anne Midgette)

'CARMEN' (Tomorrow and Wednesday) Rinat Shaham, who made her company debut as Zerlina, is a small singer for Carmen; but worse, City Opera's production seems to have veiled her spark, rendering her a mere stereotype in a stiff performance. Her Don Jose, Mark Duffin, has warm lower notes and a pressed, often flat sound on top; the Escamillo is Adrian Gans, who was too nervous to be judged at his company debut in the role. The high point is Latonia Moore, a radiant-voiced Micaela who seems to belong to a world apart from this rather pedestrian production. Ari Pelto conducts, a little woodenly but competently enough. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $25 to $130. (Midgette)

'THE MARRIAGE OF FIGARO' (Tomorrow and Sunday) Diminutive and beloved, the sexaguanarian Amato Opera proves that, in opera, tradition and devotion can prevail over quality. It's remarkable that all of Mozart's characters can fit on the theater's tiny stage. Saturday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m., Amato Opera, 319 Bowery, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 228-8200; $35; $28 for students and 65+. (Midgette)

Classical Music

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) Solo piano recitals frame the week's offerings at New York's favorite floating concert hall. Tonight Steven Lubin offers three Beethoven sonatas (including the ''Waldstein'' and ''Appassionata''); next Thursday Steven Beck juxtaposes Bach and Shostakovich preludes and fugues, then plays some Mozart sonatas. In between, the Quartetto di Cremona shows its stuff in two varied programs tomorrow and Sunday, featuring Shostakovich, Schubert, Mozart, Schumann and Vacchi. Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night at 7:30; Sunday afternoon at 4; Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083; $35; $20 for students; $30 for 65 tonight and Thursday. (Midgette)

CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Thursday) The season begins with a generous program ranging as far back as Vivaldi and Mendelssohn and as far forward as Bright Sheng, Leon Kirchner and Nicholas Maw. Pieces by John Ireland and Arthur Bliss will also show up. At 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5788; $28 to $70. (Bernard Holland)

'THE CONSTITUTION: A SECULAR ORATORIO' (Tonight and Thursday) Those who celebrate Constitution Day should not miss the composer Ben Yarmolinsky's word-for-word setting of large swatches of the Constitution, modeled on a Handelian oratorio but with echoes of musical styles from classical to American folk. This being Constitution Week, it will have two separate performances. Tonight at 8, General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen, 20 West 44th Street, (212) 921-1767; $15; $10 for members; $5 for students. Thursday afternoon at 12:15, Gould Memorial Library Auditorium, Bronx Community College, University Avenue and 181st Street, (718) 289-5100; free. (Midgette)

* ENSEMBLE XX.JAHRHUNDERT (Monday through Wednesday) Call it old new music: the 20th-Century Ensemble has been devoted to contemporary and modern works since the conductor Peter Burwik founded it in 1971. At the Austrian Cultural Forum's continuing ''Mostly Modern'' festival, the ensemble brackets its three performances next week with works of the Second Viennese School (Webern and Berg) and emigre composers (Eisler and Krenek); these surround a range of works by living composers, many Austrian, and many unfamiliar to New York audiences. At 8 p.m., 11 East 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 319-5300, Ext. 222; free, but reservations are required. (Midgette)

TAKA KIGAWA (Tonight) This enterprising young Japanese pianist tackles another tough program, this time with Bach, Beethoven and Boulez. At 8, Greenwich House Music School, 46 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 242-4770; $10. (Holland)

'A NIGHT AT THE OPERA' (Tuesday) A host of singers from the New York City Opera's past and present, including Samuel Ramey and Carol Vaness, will parade their vocal talents across the stage of the New York State Theater. At 7:30 p.m., Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $27 to $135. (Holland)

ORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA (Monday) The Metropolitan Museum opens its music season with hearty, traditional fare in the Great Hall. Janine Jansen and Eriko Sato are violinists in Bach's D-minor Double Concerto and will also be busy in excerpts from Vivaldi's ''Four Seasons.'' At 7 p.m., (212) 570-3949; $60. (Holland)

St. LUKE'S CHAMBER ENSEMBLE (Wednesday) In its first full season of concert programs after the impressive expansion of its campus, the Morgan Library and Museum gets things going at its intimate new Gilder Lehrman Hall with the St. Luke's Chamber Ensemble. Booking this popular ensemble into this 280-seat hall has proved a smart move. There are two series with three programs each; the first is officially sold out, and there is limited availability for the second. The programs begin with a concert of Baroque works by Bach, Vivaldi and Handel. At 7:30 p.m., 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 594-6100; $35; $25 for members.(Anthony Tommasini)

* SILK ROAD ENSEMBLE YOUNG ARTISTS (Tomorrow and Sunday) As part of the continuing Silk Road Project, Yo-Yo Ma's mission to bring together musicians of diverse cultures from the ancient international Silk Road trade routes, Carnegie Hall and the Weill Music Institute present four programs this weekend that grew out of a ''Tradition and Innovation'' workshop for composers and young artists. The concerts offer works by emerging composers like the 28-year-old Angel Lam, who was born in Hong Kong and now lives in Baltimore, and by established figures like Dmitri Yanov-Yanovsky, one of the leading voices in Uzbekistan, as well as the acclaimed Argentine composer of Eastern European Jewish heritage, Osvaldo Golijov. The specific works on each of the four programs will be announced at the concerts, chosen from composers including Gabriela Lena Frank, Christopher Adler, Kayhan Kalhor, Jeeyoung Kim, Evan Ziporyn and others. Tomorrow and Sunday at 4 and 8 p.m., Zankel Hall, (212) 247-7800; $15. (Tommasini)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

ARTICHOKE DANCE COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday) The company will perform Lynn Neumann's new ''I Am Nothing (Without You): Rounds 1-6,'' which involves the audience in determining the structure of each performance of the piece, which can be seen from perspectives that include the sidewalk outside. Through Sept. 24. At 8 p.m., Center for Remembering and Sharing, 123 Fourth Avenue, between 12th and 13th Streets, East Village, (212) 352-3101; $15; $12 for students and 65+. (Jennifer Dunning)

MARIANA BEKERMAN DANCE COMPANY (Thursday) Created by Mariana Bekerman and the guest choreographers Keiko Fujii and Rebekah J. Kennedy, ''Taro'' tells the story of a woman whose world is transformed when she encounters an evil spirit. (Through Sept. 24.) At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, (212) 334-7479; $15; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

BROOKLYN ADULT RECORDER CHOIR (Tonight and tomorrow night) The name of this group turns out to be literal description rather than whimsy: a self-described ad hoc group of some 60 performers trying to recapture the joys of those painful recorder lessons at school during ''In the Closet, Again, Again.'' The choreographer Beth Gill and the composer Chris Peck thought this up. From 7 to 10, the Chocolate Factory, 5-49 49th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (212) 352-3101 or theatermania.com; $15, or pay what you will for Queens residents. (Roslyn Sulcas)

DANCE AT MILLER: NEW BALLET CHOREOGRAPHERS (Tonight and tomorrow night) Ashley Bouder, Maria Kowrowski and Wendy Whelan are among the wonderful dancers from the New York City Ballet and American Ballet Theater Studio Company who will perform in this enticing program of new ballets to live music by the Masada String Trio. The choreographers are the City Ballet soloists Edwaard Liang and Tom Gold, and the former Ballet Theater dancer Brian Reeder. Mr. Gold is the wild card here -- the other two have budding reputations as promising ballet choreographers -- but he is in very good company. At 8, Miller Theater at Columbia University, 116th Street and Broadway, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799; $35; Columbia students, $7; non-Columbia students and Guggenheim Museum members, $21. (Sulcas)

DANCENOW/NYC FESTIVAL: DANCEMOPOLITAN @ JOE'S PUB (Tonight and tomorrow night) In the festival's closing performances, Leigh Garrett serves as host for two different programs featuring 19 choreographers and companies. At 9:30, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200 or joespub.org. Information about participants: dancenownyc.org; $20. (Dunning)

BILL T. JONES/ARNIE ZANE DANCE COMPANY (Tuesday) Bill T. Jones's ''Another Evening: I Bow Down,'' which had its premiere earlier this year, is back in the New York area forone night. The music is by Mr. Jones's regular collaborator Daniel Bernard Roumain, performing with the Bronx hard-core band Regain the Heart Condemned. An actor, Andrea Smith, performs alongside 10 dancers. Mr. Jones appears too -- always worth the trip. At 8 p.m., Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, Rutgers University, 85 George Street, New Brunswick, N.J., (732) 932-7511, masongross.rutgers.edu; $15 to $25. (Sulcas)

* LARRY KEIGWIN (Sunday and Tuesday) An expanded version of Mr. Keigwin's amusing contribution to the first (2005) installment of Dancing in the Streets's ''Dance Charrette,'' complete with dancers gabbing into cellphones and walking on walls. Sunday at 1:30 and 5 p.m., and Tuesday at 6 p.m., rain or shine, Tobacco Warehouse, Empire-Fulton Ferry State Park section of the Brooklyn Bridge Park, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (212) 635-3505 or dancinginthestreets.org; free. The Sunday performances will flank a walking tour of the Brooklyn Bridge Park area at 2:30 p.m., sponsored by the Municipal Art Society, (212) 935-2075; $15. (John Rockwell)

NOEMIE LAFRANCE'S 'AGORA II' (Tonight, tomorrow, Wedneday and Thursday) Apparently Ms. LaFrance, a tireless artistic explorer of public space, is a glutton for punishment. Having moved bureaucratic mountains last year to stage ''Agora'' in the enormous (and empty) McCarren Park pool in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, she now has a sequel, ''Agora II,'' which incorporates a number of guest companies and is described in the publicity materials as ''a choreographic game for 1,000 bodies.'' Good luck to them all. At 8 p.m. (arrive by 7:30), McCarren Park Pool, Lorimer Street, between Driggs and Bayard Streets, (718) 388-6309 or sensproduction.org; $20 and $30. (Sulcas)

LIVE ARTS FESTIVAL AND PHILLY FRINGE (Tonight and tomorrow night) These festivals wind to an end this weekend at theater spaces throughout downtown Philadelphia with several intriguing-sounding events, among them Jeb Kreager's ''Contest,'' which explores an American cultural preoccupation with competition and victory in choreography that draws on marching bands, platoon drilling and group singing. Information and reservations: (215) 413-1318 or livearts-fringe.org; $10, $15 and $20, depending on the event, with some shows free. (Dunning)

* CONSTANZA MACRAS (Thursday) This choreographer, born in Argentina, trained in New York and Amsterdam and based in Berlin, will perform with her 18-member international company, Dorky Park, in the United States premiere of ''Back to the Present,'' originally presented over four hours in 2003 in an abandoned Berlin department store. (Through Sept. 23.) At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or dtw.org; $20; $12 for artists, members, students and 65+. (Rockwell)

MEXICO NOW @ DNA (Tomorrow and Sunday) Mexican choreographers living in New York City will present their work. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, ticketcentral.com; $17. (Dunning)

MEXICO NOW: Danscores by OFELIA LORET DE MOLA (Tonight and tomorrow night) Although ''Aktun Spukil,'' the title of a work by the choreographer Ofelia Loret de Mola, sounds like one of the crew on the Starship Enterprise, it is, according to Mexican lore, the name of a group of caves in which the Maya took shelter during battles. At 8, Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479; $15; students, $12. (Sulcas)

ELISA MONTE DANCE (Tuesday through Thursday) This company, well known to New Yorkers, opens the Joyce's fall season with a weeklong celebration of its 25th anniversary. Elisa Monte has created a new piece, ''Hardwood,'' and has revived some older works for the occasion. At 7.30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800; $40; Joyce members, $30. (Sulcas)

JEREMY NELSON (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Nelson will continue his investigation into physical turbulence in his new ''Mean Piece,'' a work for six dancers, with sets and costumes by Luis Lara Malvacias. At 7:30, Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or dtw.org; $12. (Dunning)

NEW YORK BAROQUE DANCE COMPANY (Tonight and tomorrow night) Last month Mark Morris offered a new piece called ''Mozart Dances,'' set to Mozart piano music, none composed for dance. Now Catherine Turocky's historical-dance company and its affiliated early-music group Concert Royal will present their own program, ''Mozart Dances!'' Here the music will again include a piano concerto, but also Mozart's actual dance music for ''Les Petits Riens'' and the opera ''Idomeneo.'' At 8 p.m., Florence Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, (212) 307-4100 or (212) 355-6160 or nybaroquedance.org; $30. (Rockwell)

ELKA RINDFLEISCH (Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday) In Ms. Rindfleisch's new ''Damage,'' six dancers will struggle through a spreading inner disturbance to rock music by Chris Woltmann, performed live. They end up nowhere, the choreographer says, or in places of unexpected tenderness in a set that fills the performance space with small alternative spaces. At 8 p.m., Wallabout Studio, 50 Taaffe Place, between Flushing and Park Avenues, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (917) 251-4561 or rindfleischdance.com; $15. (Dunning)

T E A DANCE COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday night) Sahar Javedani and Ella Ben-Aharon, the troupe's resident choreographers, will present their new ''Gardens,'' which probes the notion of the pre-apple Eden as a metaphor for purity. At 8:30, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194 or www.danspaceproject.org; $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

YUBIWA HOTEL (Tonight and tomorrow night) In its American debut, this all-female modern-dance and performance company will examine the Japanese woman today, focusing on girlhood in ''Candies: girlish hardcore.'' At 7:30, Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 715-1258 or japansociety.org; $28. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

BARD GRADUATE CENTER: ' LIONS, DRAGONS AND OTHER BEASTS: AQUAMANILIA OF THE MIDDLE AGES, VESSELS FOR CHURCH AND TABLE,' through Oct. 15. Aquamanilia sounds like the latest perfume or sorbet, but actually refers to the small, cunningly figurative medieval vessels used for ritual hand-washing. Cast in sturdy, glowing copper-alloy, most often in the form of lions with serpents on their backs, aquamanilia are now having their first exhibition, complete with lavish catalog. The show has been drawn mostly from the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and overseen by the head of the museum's medieval department and its object conservator in collaboration with Bard graduate students. But don't worry about dryness. The aquamanile's triple function as totem, prestige object and pitcher lends it an undeniable energy. (The serpents are handles.) The show feels like a walk-in bestiary and is enhanced by striking abbreviations reminiscent of folk art; a versatile repertory of incised details and patterns; and a continuing, rarely resolved struggle between form and function. Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, Design and Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3000, www.bgc.bard.edu. (Roberta Smith)

Brooklyn Museum: 'Looking Back from Ground Zero: Images from the Brooklyn Museum Collection,' through Dec. 27. This show, drawn entirely from the Brooklyn Museum's collection, presents a historical picture of Lower Manhattan from early on to the present, with the building of the World Trade Center as the pivotal point. A short film, ''Building the World Trade Center,'' produced by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in 1983, is an invaluable document of the triumphalist spin surrounding the construction of the complex. A small selection of artworks produced in or just after 2001 hints at the profound and conflicted feelings the destruction of the twin towers has evoked. 200 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn, New York, (718) 638-5000, www.brooklynmuseum.org.(Holland Cotter)

COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FREDERIC CHURCH, WINSLOW HOMER AND THOMAS MORAN: TOURISM AND THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE,' through Oct. 22. It turns out that the Cooper-Hewitt owns thousands of rarely seen paintings, prints and sketches by Church, Homer and Moran. Studies of the countryside, mostly, they revere unspoiled nature and record tourism, a booming industry in 19th-century America. Here they're combined with antique postcards, old Baedeker's guides, stereoscopic photographs, playing cards with pictures of Yellowstone on them and souvenir platters, all to trace the nation's transformation from primeval wilderness to Catskills resort. The show is extremely entertaining. And Church's oil sketches alone are worth the price of admission: exquisite, plainspoken Emersonian love poems to New York and New England. 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400 or ndm.si.edu. (Michael Kimmelman)

* Dahesh Museum of Art: 'NAPOLEON ON THE NILE: SOLDIERS, ARTISTS AND THE REDISCOVERY OF EGYPT,' through Dec. 31. Napoleon's invasion of Egypt was a military disaster, but the squadron of scholars and scientists that went with him lay the foundation for Egyptology and Egyptomania, gave Orientalism a big boost and was commemorated by the 1,000 engravings of the 23-volume ''Description de l'Egypte.'' Examples of the book's prints form the backbone of this engrossing if somewhat strange and sometimes piecemeal show, which includes Orientalist paintings and a cache of fascinating ephemera. 580 Madison Avenue, at 56th Street, (212) 759-0606, daheshmuseum.org. (Smith)

Dia:Beacon: 'Agnes Martin: A Field of Vision: Paintings from the 1980's,' through March. Dia:Beacon, a bulwark of Minimalism on the banks of the Hudson River north of Manhattan, has three permanent galleries devoted to the artist Agnes Martin. Over the last two years they have been used for a retrospective of her paintings, installed in decade-long increments. The fourth installment is now in place. If Martin's spare, lucid compositions of drawn lines and painted bands feel different from much of the art around them here, that is because she was not a Minimalist. In fact, she called herself an Abstract Expressionist, and she was adamant on this point. The 18 paintings here confirm her conviction, in a show as deep, light-glinting, restless and purposeful as the river flowing nearby. Dia:Beacon, Riggio Galleries, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y., (845) 440-0100, www.diacenter.org. (Cotter)

Guild Hall Museum: 'Elizabeth Peyton,' through Oct. 22. Most of the 43 works in this exhibition portray beautiful people, some famous, some less so. Most immediately engaging is the tension between the painterly abstraction and the human subject matter. Images are realized in drippy swatches, squiggly lines and feathery dabs, and colors range from incandescent reds and oranges to pale lavenders and grays to dark velvety browns, blacks and purples. Yet for all that expressionistic action, likenesses are exacting. People like Nicole Kidman and Queen Elizabeth are rendered with seemingly effortless precision. Romantic feeling connects the form and content in Ms. Peyton's work. A kind of erotic yearning animates how Ms. Peyton sees her subjects and how she makes her pictures. To paint, her works imply, is to be in love: to be in love with certain people and with painting itself. 158 Main Street, East Hampton, N.Y., (631) 324-0806, www.guildhall.org/museum.ihtml. (Ken Johnson)

SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'ZAHA HADID: THIRTY YEARS IN ARCHITECTURE,' through Oct. 25. This exhibition, Ms. Hadid's first major retrospective in the United States, gives New Yorkers a chance to see what they've been missing. The show, in the Guggenheim's rotunda, spirals through Ms. Hadid's career, from her early enchantment with Soviet Constructivism to the sensuous and fluid cityscapes of her more recent commissions. It illuminates her capacity for bridging different worlds: traditional perspective drawing and slick computer-generated imagery; the era of utopian manifestoes and the ambiguous values of the information age. (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Nicolai Ouroussoff)

* Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Brush and Ink: The Chinese Art of Writing,' through Jan. 21. If painting and writing can be seen as modes of thinking, and they can, then ''Brush and Ink: The Chinese Art of Writing'' at the Metropolitan Museum is as much a brainstorming session as an art exhibition, crackling with ideas and arguments every step of the way. It is also a sequence of moods, with impassioned voices calling out from the 80 scrolls and inscribed fans that line the galleries, which include colossal examples of contemporary 21st-century art that both depart from and preserve a tradition, (212) 535-7710, www.metmuseum.org. (Cotter)

Morgan Library & Museum: CELEBRATING REMBRANDT: ETCHINGS FROM THE MORGAN, through Oct. 1. On the occasion of the opening of its newly rethought home, the Morgan Library has mounted a show of 50 of its greatest Rembrandt etchings. The selection demonstrates the range of the master's subjects (from the heights of biblical tragedy to the casually erotic) and also his amazingly expressive technique. It serves as reminder that Rembrandt's prints represent genius of the plainest, most accessible sort: sustaining classics that encompass the earthy and the exalted and offer fresh meanings with each encounter. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, www.themorgan.org. (Smith)

* MUseum of modern art: 'ARTIST'S CHOICE: Herzog & DE MEURON, PERCEPTION RESTRAINED,' through Sept. 25. In an unusually accessible bit of institutional critique, the architects who failed to win the commission to design the new Museum of Modern Art bite the hand that didn't feed them. They create a kind of deprivation chamber with a black gallery, where excerpts from American movies play on video screens on the ceiling and 110 works of art and design are crammed into enormous niches that are all but sealed from view. Perverse and cerebral, it may be the best one-liner you'll encounter this summer, and it makes some interesting points about the spectacle of the museum, the Modern included. (212) 708-9400, www.moma.org. (Smith)

NEUE Galerie: Gustav Klimt: Five Paintings From the Collection of Ferdinand and Adele Bloch-Bauer, through Oct 9. Klimt's 1907 gold portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer, lately acquired by the billionaire collector Ronald S. Lauder, reportedly for $135 million, is now aptly installed like a trophy head above the mantelpiece. She's half queen, half Las Vegas showgirl. A perfect New Yorker. She temporarily hangs with four other Klimts, including a second Adele, painted in 1912: a slender, sinuous Coke-bottle-shaped figure, more chaste than carnal. A painting of a birch forest is an archetypal Klimt mix of uncanny naturalism and geometric abstraction. Two other landscapes, of an apple tree and an unfinished jigsaw-puzzle view of houses on the shore of the Attersee, raise the question: Had Klimt not died at 55 in 1918, would he have ended up a pure abstractionist like Mondrian? 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, www.neuegalerie.org. (Kimmelman)

* New-York Historical Society: Legacies: Contemporary Artists Reflect on Slavery, through Jan. 7. Slavery, some would say, didn't really end in the United States until the civil rights legislation of the 1960's. That was a full century after the Emancipation Proclamation. Or the ''Emancipation Approximation,'' as the artist Kara Walker calls it in a series of hallucinatory silkscreen prints. They are among the high points of this large, powerful, subtle group show, the second of three exhibitions on American slavery organized by the New-York Historical Society, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, www.nyhistory.org. (Cotter)

Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Nadine Robinson: Alles Grau,' 'Quid Pro Quo: Rashawn Griffin, Karyn Olivier and Clifford Owen: 2005-06 Artists-in-Residence,' and 'Beyond Sight,' through Oct. 22. The Studio Museum in Harlem is looking sharp with three concurrent shows, the outstanding one being a single big sound-sculpture by Nadine Robinson. It expands her political purview from imperialism to Armageddon with hundreds of speakers embedded in an 11-foot-high gray-black wall unit that generate a sampling of satanic film scores (''The Omen,'' ''The Matrix''), mixed with funeral chants and Rastafarian dance music. ''Quid Pro Quo'' is a showcase for the 2005-6 artists in residence, all interdisciplinarians with a sweet-and-sour Dadaist touch. Mr. Owens, with performance, looks intriguingly volatile; he will give a live performance at the museum tonight (reservations suggested). And you won't want to leave the museum without checking out ''Beyond Sight,'' the work of the 14 teenage participants in the program called ''Expanding the Walls: Making Connections Between Photography, History and Community,'' 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, www.studiomuseuminharlem.org. (Cotter)

Wadsworth Atheneum: 'American Splendor: Hudson River School Masterworks From the Wadsworth Atheneum,' through Dec. 31. Back from a two-and-a-half-year tour at six other American museums, the Wadsworth's formidable collection of 19th-century Hudson River School paintings is on display in this homecoming show. Not every Hudson River collection can boast 11 works by Frederic Edwin Church, 13 by Thomas Cole and 5 by Albert Bierstadt,, a leading painter of the American West, along with powerful examples by other artists of the school. They are among the more than 60 paintings on display here. It's rare that you see these ultrafamiliar paintings in such concentration; their combined presence gives the show a synergistic sparkle and energy that you don't get when you see them in smaller groupings. 600 Main Street, Hartford, (860) 278-2670, www.wadsworthatheneum.org.(Grace Glueck)

Galleries: Uptown

* ONE WAY OR ANOTHER: ASIAN AMERICAN ART NOW, through Dec. 10. Taking its name from a 1978 hit by the punk band Blondie, this lively exhibition finds a new vitality and freedom, especially where identity is involved, in Asian-American art. The artists' roots range from Iran to Korea; their mediums include painting, drawing, sculpture, video, photography and performance. Keep a special eye out for Mari Eastman's wryly beautiful paintings; Mika Tajima's glamorous deconstruction of Minimalism; and the video-performance efforts of Patty Chang, Laurel Nakadate and Xavier Cha. An added bonus: 12, or 71 percent, of the show's 17 artists are women. Asia Society, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, www.asiasociety.org. (Smith)

* Sarah Sze: 'Corner Plot' The upper corner of an apartment building protrudes from the Doris C. Freedman Plaza's pavement as if the whole edifice had toppled and sunk into the ground. Through the window's of Ms. Sze's magical outdoor sculpture you can see a complicated interior that looks as if it were created by a mad architect. Doris C. Freedman Plaza, 60th Street and Fifth Avenue, (212) 980-4575, through Oct. 22. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

* STUART HAWKINS: CUSTOMS The latest series of daffy photographs by this American artist working in Nepal rarely reflects well on Western tourists. Too stagy to be snapshots and too haphazard to be completely planned, they parlay familiar travel terms like ''Day Driver,'' ''Field Notes,'' ''Welcome Drink'' and ''Medicine Kit'' into bizarre sitcoms. In ''Souvenir,'' a short video about the search for indigenous authenticity, the ensemble performance that is generated in the photographs becomes openly antic and wonderfully pointed. Zach Feuer Gallery, 530 West 24th Street, (212) 989-7700, www.zachfeuer.com, through Sept. 23. (Smith)

Other Galleries

'Zoo Story' A clay gorilla by Daisy Youngblood, a bronze she-wolf by Kiki Smith, a flock of concrete sheep by Francoise-Xavier Lalanne and works about animals by more than 20 other artists, including John Baldessari, Katharina Fritsch, Ross Bleckner and Rebecca Horn, turn the first floor of this sleek, three-story private museum into a diverting menagerie. Fisher Landau Center for Art, 38-27 30th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 937-0727, www.flcart.org through Oct. 16. (Johnson)

Last Chance

* American Folk Art Museum: 'WHITE ON WHITE (AND A LITTLE GRAY),' The importance of neo-Classicism to early American architecture, silver and fine furniture is not exactly news. This small, beautiful show follows its spread into more personal corners of visual culture: often exquisite, strikingly dimensional white-work bedcovers; luminously grisaille, sometimes wacky marble-dust drawings; and print-work embroidery mourning pictures. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, www.folkartmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)

* Frick Collection : 'Jean-Etienne Liotard (1702-1789): Swiss MasteR,' Liotard is something of a specialty item now, but he was widely known in the Enlightenment Europe of his day. And even then he was seen as a maverick, a figure of contradictions. He was a stone-cold realist in an age of rococo frills. In a great age of oil painting, he favored pastel. He had ultrafancy sitters for his portraits, including Marie Antoinette. But his most vivid likenesses are of himself and his family. The Frick's perfectly proportioned sweetheart of a solo show is the artist's first in North America. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, www.frick.org; closes on Sunday. (Cotter)

* GALERIE DANIEL BUCHHOLZ AT METRO PICTURES This well-known Cologne gallery presents a surprisingly sweeping view of current art that includes Americans and Europeans and, despite its Conceptual slant, an impressive range of mediums and sensibilities. Metro Pictures, 519 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-7100, www.metropicturesgallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

JEWISH MUSEUM: 'EVA HESSE: SCULPTURE,' Assembled by Elizabeth Sussman, curator at the Whitney Museum of American Art, and Fred Wasserman, a curator at the Jewish Museum, this show focuses on a pivotal Hesse exhibition, ''Chain Polymers,'' at the Fischbach Gallery -- known for promoting Minimalist painters -- in 1968. Arguably a compilation of her best work, it was her first and only solo show of sculpture during her lifetime, and most of the objects in it -- along with some earlier and later pieces -- are here. One of the earliest is ''Compart'' (1966), a four-panel vertical that starts at the top with a fully formed, round, breastlike image of neatly wound cord that mysteriously breaks up into part of the same image on each of the three panels beneath. The last, most startling and most impressive work is ''Untitled (Rope Piece),'' of 1970, made as Ms. Hesse was dying, finished with the help of friends. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200 or www.jewishmuseum.org, closes on Sunday. (Glueck)

Katonah Museum of Art: 'Andromeda Hotel, the Art of Joseph Cornell,' Although Cornell never left the United States, he translated his dreams of faraway places into delicate, sometimes overly precious works that have a sense of longing. In this show the white-painted, weathered interior of a box titled ''Grand Hotel -- Hotel Taglioni'' (1954) contains incongruous elements of collage, among them an old ad for a French bakery topped by a color cutout of the ballerina Marie Taglioni, an object of the artist's adoration. Even simpler, but equally dreamy, is another weathered box, ''Hotel de l'Etoile'' (1950), which holds only a long, vertical image of a deep blue sky rife with thousands of tiny pinpoints of light. One of the show's most striking images is a surreal photograph of Cornell by Lee Miller in which he is seen gazing upward, entranced, his shoulder adorned with a miniature sailboat (around 1935). Route 22 at Jay Street, Katonah, N.Y., (914) 232-9555, www.katonahmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Glueck)

HANS RICHTER (1888-1976), DADA; ART AND ANTI-ART This daunting yet partial survey is clogged with late paintings and reliefs that are for the most part elegant pastiches of Constructivism, Cubism and Abstract Expressionism. But it should be seen for the four short films from the 1920's, in which Richter's formalist and Dada sides balance beautifully, with elegantly Surrealist results. This is especially the case in the luminous ''Ghosts Before Breakfast,'' from 1927, which explores most of film's structural possibilities and segues briskly between abstraction and Hollywood narrative, while three skittering bowler hats provide continuity. Maya Stendhal Gallery, 545 West 20th Street, (212) 366-1549, www.mayastendhalgallery.com; closes tomorrow. (Smith)

* STRANGE POWERS This exhibition vacillates between the hokiness of spirit photography and the immateriality of Conceptual Art with just enough agility to keep you guessing about whether ghosts, ESP and other paranormal phenomena are matters of fact or faith. Among the more convincing indications are Anne Collier's small color photographs of the auras of her friends; Sophie Calle's video documentary (made with Fabio Balducci) of a psychic-guided journey; and the Center for Tactical Magic's ''Vital Psigns,'' which demonstrates the power of positive thought on plants. But the efforts of nearly 20 other artists round out the argument, often to unsettling effect. Creative Time, 64 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 206-6674, www.creativetime.org; closes on Sunday. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: Photos: MOVIES -- Taylor Kitsch, left, Steven Strait and Toby Hemingway in ''The Covenant,'' Renny Harlin's thriller about boy witches, Page 19. (Photo by Jonathan Wenk/Screen Gems)
POP -- Natacha Atlas brings her North African, Middle Eastern and Indian styles and bubbly beats to Symphony Space, Page 19. (Photo by Youssef Nabil)
 ART -- A detail from Binh Danh's ''One Week's Dead No. 2,'' on view in ''One Way or Another: Asian American Art Now'' at Asia Society, Page 21. (Photo by Binh Danh/Haines Gallery, San Francisco)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); BONE FRACTURES (66%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



300 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3706 words

HEADLINE: California, Taking Big Gamble, Tries to Curb Greenhouse Gases

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO 

 BODY:
In the Rocky Mountain States and the fast-growing desert Southwest, more than 20 power plants, designed to burn coal that is plentiful and cheap, are on the drawing boards. Much of the power, their owners expected, would be destined for the people of California.
 But such plants would also be among the country's most potent producers of carbon dioxide, the king of gases linked to global warming. So California has just delivered a new message to these energy suppliers: If you cannot produce power with the lowest possible emissions of these greenhouse gases, we are not interested.
 ''When your biggest customer says, 'I ain't buying,' you rethink,'' said Hal Harvey, the environment program director at the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, in Menlo Park, Calif. ''When you have 38 million customers you don't have access to, you rethink. Selling to Phoenix is nice. Las Vegas is nice. But they aren't California.''
 California's decision to impose stringent demands on suppliers even outside its borders, broadened by the Legislature on Aug. 31 and awaiting the governor's signature, is but one example of the state's wide-ranging effort to remake its energy future. 
 The Democratic-controlled legislature and the Republican governor also agreed at that time on legislation to reduce industrial carbon dioxide emissions by 25 percent by 2020, a measure that affects not only power plants but also other large producers of carbon dioxide, including oil refineries and cement plants.
 The state's aim is to reduce emissions of climate-changing gases produced by burning coal, oil and gas. Other states, particularly New York, are moving in some of the same directions, but no state is moving as aggressively on as many fronts. No state has been at it longer. No state is putting more at risk. 
 Whether all this is visionary or deluded depends on one's perspective. This is the state that in the early 1970's jump-started the worldwide adoption of catalytic converters, the devices that neutralize most smog-forming chemicals emitted by tailpipes. This is the state whose per capita energy consumption has been almost flat for 30 years, even as per capita consumption has risen 50 percent nationally.
 Taking on global warming is a tougher challenge. Though California was second in the nation only to Texas in emissions of carbon dioxide in 2001, and 12th in the world, it produced just 2.5 percent of the world's total. At best, business leaders asked in a legislative hearing, what difference could California's cuts make? And at what cost? 
 California, in fact, is making a huge bet: that it can reduce emissions without wrecking its economy, and therefore inspire other states -- and countries -- to follow its example on slowing climate change. 
 Initiatives addressing climate change are everywhere in California, pushed by legislators, by regulators, by cities, by foundations, by businesses and by investors. 
 Four years ago, California became the first state to seek to regulate emissions of carbon dioxide from automobile tailpipes. Car dealers and carmakers are challenging the law in federal court. 
 In late August, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a measure requiring builders to offer home buyers roofs with tiles that convert sunlight into electricity. Homeowners in some communities are already choosing them to reduce their electric bills. 
 California, which has for decades required that refrigerators, air conditioners, water heaters and other appliances become more energy efficient, just added to the list: first, chargers for cellphones or computers; second, set-top boxes and other remote-controlled devices. Those categories consume up to 10 percent of a home's power. 
 Last fall, California regulators barred major investor-owned electrical utilities from signing long-term contracts to buy energy unless the seller's greenhouse-gas emissions meet a stringent standard. 
 ''We are dealing with it across the board,'' said Michael R. Peevey, the president of the Public Utilities Commission. By contrast, the Bush administration has been averse to any legislative assault on climate change.
 Opponents say California may hurt its own residents with its clean-energy mandate. Scott Segal, a lawyer for Bracewell & Giuliani who represents electric utilities, summarized California's policy as: ''All electrons are not created equal. We're going to discriminate against some of them, and create artificial barriers in the marketplace for electricity.'' California consumers could end up paying more for their energy and struggling to find enough, Mr. Segal said.
 Is California dreaming? Can its multifaceted approach become a toolkit for other states? Will investors make the state the incubator for clean-energy technologies that will reduce its energy bills and buoy its economy? Or will all this turn California into a stagnating economic island of ever-rising electricity prices and ever-rolling blackouts?
 One thing is certain: The issue will not go away. This summer, a brutal California heat wave killed roughly 140 people. A 2004 National Academy of Sciences report predicted that, at the current growth rate of emissions, there would be at least five times as many heat waves in Los Angeles by 2100 compared with the current historical average, and twice as many heat-related deaths. 
 The study predicted that at least half the state's alpine forests would disappear by century's end, and that the Sierra snowpack -- crucial to California's water supply -- would decline by at least 29 percent and as much as 70 percent.
 There seems to be political support, in California and nationally, for action on climate change. Statewide, a July 26 poll from the Public Policy Institute of California showed that 79 percent of 2,051 people surveyed said that global warming was a ''very serious'' or a ''somewhat serious'' threat to the state's economy and quality of life. The findings mirrored those of a national poll of 1,206 people conducted in mid-August by The New York Times and CBS News.
 But polling organizations have asked little about the potentially painful sacrifices that may be required. 

The Car Culture
 Back in the 1950's, when the movie director George Lucas was growing up, cars rocked around the clock in Modesto, and they were so enshrined in his 1973 hit, ''American Graffiti.'' The movie reaffirmed what much of the nation knew -- there was no car culture like California's. Sleek convertibles? Muscle cars? Sport utility vehicles? Many were hatched in the design studios of Detroit, but popularized by Hollywood movies and celebrities, and by plain old California consumers.
 Fast forward to August. In the middle of the sales lot at Modesto Toyota sat a long row of sport utility vehicles the dealership had acquired as trade-ins in previous weeks. Leaning on a 2006 Ford Expedition, George S. Ismail, a sales manager, said, ''We're getting a lot of people trading in their sport utility vehicles for smaller cars.'' Even heavily discounted, the used S.U.V.'s sit for weeks.
 Yet Modesto Toyota is breaking records, Mr. Ismail said, selling about 400 vehicles a month, up from 260 a year ago. Most are small cars -- Camrys and Corollas. Some are hybrid vehicles that use even less fuel, like the Prius. One-quarter of 200,000 new hybrid vehicles registered nationwide in 2005 belonged to Californians, according to the automotive analyst R. L. Polk.
 With smaller cars increasingly popular, California now burns less gasoline per capita than all but six states. Burning less gasoline cuts carbon dioxide. Tailpipes account for more than half the state's carbon dioxide emissions, federal figures show.
 Much of this change in driver taste is attributable to the higher price of gasoline. But what if gasoline prices fall again and bigger, less efficient vehicles become more popular? California has an answer. 
 It came from Assemblywoman Fran Pavley, a Democrat and former schoolteacher who drives a Prius and whose South Coast district has a bird's-eye view of the smoggy Los Angeles basin. Four years ago Ms. Pavley wrote the first state law regulating carbon dioxide emissions from cars and trucks. It requires vehicle makers to eventually reduce the average emissions of carbon dioxide of the mix of cars it sells in California by 30 percent, beginning with the 2009 model year. Light trucks, including sport utility vehicles, must meet the same standard by the 2016 model year. 
 Ten states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, have followed suit. Canada instituted voluntary emissions reductions at similar levels, which major automobile manufacturers have agreed they can meet. ''We think that, coupled with Canada, we're now over one-third of the market,'' Ms. Pavley said in an interview.
 But automobile manufacturers and some dealerships have vowed to wipe her law from the books. Their lawsuit's central assertion is that, by regulating carbon dioxide emissions, California is using a backdoor means to control fuel efficiency, which, under the federal Energy Policy and Conservation Act, is the exclusive preserve of the federal Transportation Department. To produce less carbon dioxide, cars would have to be more fuel efficient. 
 On Sept. 15, Judge Anthony W. Ishii of Federal District Court in Fresno will hear arguments on California's request to dismiss the case. If the lawsuit survives, the first hearing is set for January. This schedule overlaps with that of another case with direct bearing on this issue. The Supreme Court, petitioned by a dozen states, led by Massachusetts, and three cities, including New York, will decide whether the law requires the Environmental Protection Agency to declare carbon dioxide a pollutant and to regulate it. The Bush administration contends it has no authority to do either. 
 If the Supreme Court accepts the administration's arguments, it will not help California in its legal fight against Detroit, because a key to the state's case is the contention that carbon dioxide is in fact a pollutant under the Clean Air Act. 

Hungry Electronics
 Imagine all the small electronic devices in a modern home -- iPods and handheld organizers, cellphones and laptops -- charging at a power strip. 
 Arthur H. Rosenfeld, a member of the California Energy Commission, knows how much electricity is wasted when people unplug the devices but leave the charger plugged in. Dr. Rosenfeld estimates that such chargers -- along with appliances like televisions that draw power even when they are off because they are designed to respond to remote controls -- use up to 10 percent of an average home's power. 
 He calls them ''vampires'' -- things with teeth that suck power at night. 
 Recently, Dr. Rosenfeld proudly held up a small green cellular phone charger that consumes less than half a watt of electricity -- a fifth as much as its predecessors -- when left plugged into an outlet. It meets state standards that take effect in 2007. The same standards will require sharp power cutbacks from audio and video equipment, both when the devices are in use and when they are standing by for a remote signal. 
 Since the 1970's, California's energy-efficiency standards have reduced electricity consumption by the equivalent of the output of more than 20 average power plants, Dr. Rosenfeld said. And the standards have become templates for other states and Washington. Nationally, Dr. Rosenfeld added, energy-efficiency policies have saved the economy $700 billion since the 1970's.
 But why would utilities, which sell electricity, have any interest in seeing sales diminish? In 1982, the Public Utilities Commission decoupled utilities' sales and their profits by allowing rate increases for utilities that helped customers cut energy use. 
 The logic was that for every dollar the consumer did not spend on energy, the utility would get real income -- say 15 cents, which would exceed the profit the utility could have made on that dollar. For consumers, efficiency savings more than offset the rate increases. ''Even though rates go up, bills go down,'' said Mr. Harvey of the Hewlett Foundation.
 Ralph Cavanagh, the co-director of the energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Counsel, said: ''Every other state in the country rewards utilities for selling more energy. It's a perfectly perverse incentive.''
 Mr. Peevey, of the utilities commission, said he expected new efficiencies to absorb half the increase in demand as the state grows to 40 million people, from 38 million.
 Mr. Peevey's commission has also been a prime mover in increasing state support for residential solar power. Solar energy remains four times as expensive as electricity produced by conventional fuels. But, he said, ''the idea is to make the solar industry a self-sustaining, economically viable industry,'' and to make the cost come down. 
 California businesses and investors, public and private, are getting into the act. The state's huge pension fund, Calpers, is committing just under $1 billion to renewable-energy investments. Among the early incentive-driven ventures in solar power are the homes in the Carsten Crossings subdivision in Rocklin, a Sacramento suburb. In August, Mr. Schwarzenegger signed legislation making solar panels a standard option for new-home buyers by 2012 and ensuring that utilities reduce homeowners' bills based on the electricity returned to the grid.
 Some of those incentives were available when construction started. Now four families have moved in. They see themselves as pragmatists, not crusaders. ''This is the next logical step'' in construction, said one of the homeowners, Lt. Col. Thomas Sebens, a specialist in drone aircraft at Beale Air Force Base.
 Their roofs show how public and private decisions, markets and government, have meshed. T. J. Rodgers, a fiercely anti-regulatory entrepreneur, underwrote the solar cells' production. The PowerLight Corporation, based near San Francisco, bought the cells from Mr. Rodgers's company, the SunPower Corporation, and turned them into roof tiles. The tiles ended up on houses built by Grupe Homes, based in Stockton, because state utility regulators established a $5,500 state-financed rebate for builders who install similar systems, which cost $20,000. Federal law gives home buyers a $2,000 tax credit; state law guarantees lower electric bills as utilities buy back power homeowners do not need.
 The July utility bills, the new homeowners' first, were the talk of the neighborhood. 
 Larry Brittain, an office products salesman with a four-bedroom, 2,400-square-foot home, was the winner at $73.27 for electricity in the month ending July 25 -- the hottest July on record. For the last 10 June days in a similar house nearby, his bill was $103.
 ''This is a bet with a winning hand,'' Mr. Brittain said. ''You can't lose.''

Pressure on Suppliers
 In Gerlach, Nev., 100 miles north of Reno, a high desert butte was made ready two years ago for its wedding to the Granite Fox Power Project, a plant designed to burn pulverized Western coal. Electrical transmission lines were close by. 
 But, like Miss Havisham in Dickens's ''Great Expectations,'' Gerlach waits for a groom that may never arrive. The plant was a certain source of significant new carbon dioxide emissions. Mr. Cavanagh predicted that it ''would wipe out all the carbon dioxide savings from California's spectacularly successful efforts to save electricity during 2001 and 2002.'' 
 Southern Californians would likely be the eventual customers. But last fall, the California Public Utilities Commission barred the investor-owned utilities it regulates from signing long-term contracts for electricity if the emissions exceeded those of the cleanest gas-driven plants. The only technology that could accomplish that with coal is expensive and has not been perfected.
 Said Mr. Peevey of the commission, ''All we're saying is, Fine, you send it here, but it has to be, in terms of air quality and greenhouse gas emissions, it has to be comparable to the newest combined-cycle gas turbine.'' One fifth of California's electricity comes from coal, the vast majority of it from outside the state.
 This past winter, Sempra Energy, the parent of San Diego Gas & Electric and Sempra Generation and the developer of Granite Fox, put the project up for sale. Neal E. Schmale, Sempra's president, said the ruling had had a negligible impact on the decision. High natural gas prices prompted the company to invest in gas storage and terminals instead, Mr. Schmale said.
 Among California environmentalists, however, the ''for sale'' sign on Granite Fox was taken as a victory for a pioneering policy that reaches beyond the state's borders. V. John White, an environmental lobbyist in Sacramento, compares building a Southwestern power plant to building a mall: California is a desirable anchor tenant.
 But California is also the state where electricity deregulation foundered in 2000; bills soared and an economic crisis ensued. Even without a crisis, Californians' electricity rates are about 40 percent above the national average.
 Robert McIlvaine, a coal industry consultant from Northfield, Ill., said, ''If you are going to generate electricity from gas, the cost of doing so is going to be considerably greater than coal -- 50 percent more or 100 percent more.'' 
 But, Mr. Harvey said: ''People don't pay rates. They pay bills. You can have twice the rate and half the consumption and be just as happy.''
 On Aug. 31, legislators enacted the bill sponsored by the State Senate president, Don Perata, Democrat of Oakland, and extended the commission's rule to all power providers. 
 Business people ask if this could provoke another crisis. Power-plant siting experts, like Thomas A. Johns, the vice president of development at Sithe Global Power, a New York company, say that, in the short term, the loss of California business may not matter much to the merchants of power in the Southwest. Fast-growing cities like Phoenix and Las Vegas are ready markets. 
 In the long run, however, ''California is a big piece'' of the total consumption in the West -- 40 percent, Mr. Johns said. ''If 40 percent of the Western load will not buy coal, you will have less coal.''
 The risk, both Mr. Johns and Mr. Schmale said, is in increasing the state's reliance on natural gas, whose price has been extremely volatile in recent years. (California law bars construction of nuclear plants until the questions of waste disposal are resolved.)
 ''When you exclude coal and nuclear from your base load,'' Mr. Johns said, ''you've only got one option, and that's natural gas.'' Another measure awaiting the governor's signature toughens standards by requiring that by 2010, 20 percent of the energy sold in California comes from a portfolio of renewable sources, like geothermal and wind. Last year, 10.7 percent of California's power came from renewable sources.
 New renewable energy sources could make prices less volatile, but Mr. Schmale of Sempra said California's policy makers need to muster ''the political will'' to build transmission lines and ''all those other things that would be necessary to make the environmental things work.''

Caps, Costs and Credits
 Perhaps the most ambitious measure California has undertaken is the newly mandated 25 percent reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. ''If we do it right,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said at a news conference, ''it can be an example for the rest of the world and the rest of the country to see.'' If not, the concept could be discredited. 
 The law, sponsored by Ms. Pavley and the Assembly speaker, Fabian Nunez, Democrat of Los Angeles, gives the California Air Resources Board authority to set industry-specific targets for emissions reductions, effective in 2012, and to establish mechanisms -- including the creation of emissions allowances that companies might trade or bank -- to facilitate compliance. These targets would be adjusted from 2012 to 2020 to meet the 25 percent goal. 
 Those who have studied the question agree that the new system will cost consumers more. ''A cap-and-trade system will raise the cost of electricity to consumers to some degree,'' said Lawrence H. Goulder, a professor of environmental and resource economics at Stanford University. 
 As the European Union found after the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, figuring out how to assign emissions credits is not easy. 
 Whatever the decisions, chances are that they will be met by a lawsuit. Margo Thorning, the chief economist at the American Council for Capital Formation, a group supporting business interests, argues in a study that ''sharp cutbacks in California's energy use would be necessary to close the 41 percent gap in 2020 between projected emissions'' and the cuts the law requires. Dr. Thorning added in an interview, ''The technologies that will enable us to move quickly in a cost-effective way away from fossil fuel just aren't there yet.'' 
 Allan Zaremberg, president of the state Chamber of Commerce, predicted that businesses would flee to unregulated areas and continue to emit climate-changing gases. 
 Dr. Thorning's study was countered in mid-August with a study by David Roland-Holst, an adjunct professor of agricultural and resource economics at the University of California, Berkeley. Professor Roland-Holst argued that the new law would add $60 billion and 17,000 jobs -- in fields like alternative energy -- to the California economy by 2020 by attracting new investment.
 James D. Marston, the head of state global warming programs for Environmental Defense, the New York group that helped lead the fight for California's new carbon cap, said, ''We'll look back in 10 years and say this was the final breakthrough and the final political consensus that we have to do something meaningful on global warming.''

The Energy Challenge
 Articles in this series are examining the ways in which the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy-efficient, environmentally benign future. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/energychallenge. 
 A visit to Carsten Crossings near Sacramento, where buyers of new homes with solar panels reap the fruits of California's energy incentives, is at nytimes.com/national.


GRAPHIC: Photos: AN INCENTIVE-DRIVEN VENTURE -- Dan Bolden installing solar panels in a subdivision in Rocklin, Calif. A new law requires the panels to be a standard option for buyers of new homes by 2012. (Photo by Max Whittaker for The New York Times)(pg. A20)
 A POLITICAL PUSH -- Speaker Fabian Nunez and Assemblywoman Nan Pavley sponsored a law to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 25 percent. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. A21)Chart: ''An Energy-Thrifty State''Californians use less electricity per person than those in all other states.Statewide power use in 2003, per capitaThe 10 most thriftyCalifornia: 6,732Rhode IslandNew YorkHawaiiNew HampshireAlaskaVermontMassachusettsNew JerseyConnecticutU.S. AVERAGE: 11,997 KILOWATT-HOURSThe 10 that consume the most powerArkansasIndianaNorth DakotaTennesseeLouisianaSouth CarolinaAlabamaDistrict of ColumbiaKentuckyWyomingGREEN, AND GETTING GREENERAbout 42 percent of the fuel used to create California's electricity does not produce greenhouse gases.NUCLEAR: 15%LARGE HYDRO*: 17RENEWABLE SOURCES account for about 11 percent. They are:GEOTHERMAL: 5BIOMASS: 2SMALL HYDRO: 21.5 WIND: 1.5SOLAR: 0.258 percent of fuel used to create California's electricity does produce greenhouse gases.NATURAL GAS: 38%COAL: 20A new California law calls for renewable sources to make up 20 percent of electricity fuels by 2010.Nationally, about 71 percent of electricity produces greenhouse gases.*California does not consider large hydro a renewable source.(Sources by California Energy Commission, Department of Energy)(pg. A21)Graph: ''LIVING WITH LESS''In California, annual electricity use has stayed largely flat since the mid-1970's, while the average American's went up more than 50 percent.Graph tracks California and the United States's annual electricity use since 1960.(Source by California Energy Commission)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SMOG (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); CEMENT MFG (73%); LIGHT POLLUTION (70%); CONSUMPTION (69%) Weather; Global Warming; Electric Light and Power; Air Pollution; Energy and Power; Surveys and Series; Carbon Dioxide; Weather

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA ENERGY COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: Felicity Barringer

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) California

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



301 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Creates Legacy, Filling Scores of Posts

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
In his final months in office, Gov. George E. Pataki has appointed or reappointed hundreds of officials to state boards, commissions and authorities, assuring his imprint on state government for years after his term expires on Dec. 31.
 The appointments include Peter S. Kalikow, the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, to a new six-year term and overseers of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, who could play a role in the redevelopment of the West Side. Many are Pataki contributors, political allies or their relatives.
Mr. Pataki has submitted dozens more nominees to the Republican-controlled Senate for confirmation today, and Albany Democrats estimate that he could fill at least another 50 vacancies before leaving office. The appointments lock them into policy-making and regulatory roles over a range of matters, including mass transportation and economic development -- in some cases until 2013. 
 Rewarding political supporters with ''midnight appointments'' to terms fixed by law is a practice that dates back to at least the early 19th century, when President John Adams tried to stack the deck against his successor, Thomas Jefferson. 
 What distinguishes Mr. Pataki's going-away appointments, besides the sheer volume, is the fact that this is the first time in decades that a departing governor's party enjoys a majority in the Senate. That opportunity last presented itself in 1974, although other governors have made midnight appointments that did not require Senate confirmation.
 The process first raised alarms earlier this summer when Mr. Pataki tried to make two $90,000-a-year appointments that, to provide the longest possible terms, did not take effect until Jan. 1, 2007. Senate Democrats balked, citing an unofficial opinion from the United States Naval Observatory that midnight -- when the governor's term expires -- is actually the last moment of Dec. 31, not the beginning of Jan. 1. Mr. Pataki withdrew those nominations.
 ''It's what I call ruling beyond the grave,'' said Senator David A. Paterson of Manhattan, the minority leader and now the Democratic nominee for lieutenant governor on the ticket with Eliot Spitzer, who hopes to succeed Mr. Pataki. ''In wills, trusts and estates law we have pretty much gotten rid of ways people could direct actions of other people in perpetuity. For some reason, in government we haven't addressed it.''
 ''The Cuomo administration didn't do it,'' Mr. Paterson said, ''but, to be fair, the Cuomo administration required the consent of the Senate.''
 A spokesman for Mr. Pataki, Michael Marr, defended the appointments, saying yesterday: ''The governor is the governor until Dec. 31, and he will continue to fulfill the constitutional and legal obligations of the office for the remainder of his tenure. As vacancies come up on state boards and commissions, the governor will continue to submit qualified nominations to ensure the continued efficient operation of state government.''
 The administration has been able to make hundreds of appointments in part by putting permanent appointees in posts that were previously filled on an interim basis, or by dismissing holdovers so that Mr. Pataki can then make appointments to longer terms. 
 The administration has also invoked another tool: shifting its appointees back to Civil Service titles that protect them from dismissal, a process that may bump current employees into lower-paying jobs. 
 In other cases, officials who are likely to lose their state jobs with the arrival of a new governor are being placed on boards and commissions with fixed terms. 
 In June, Mr. Pataki sought to reappoint Ellen O. Paprocki, whose father, John F. O'Mara, is an influential lobbyist and one of Mr. Pataki's closest advisers, and to name Lisa Wright, the former wife of an upstate Republican state senator, to the Workers' Compensation Board, even though Ms. Paprocki's current term does not expire until after Jan. 1. Those positions pay $90,800 annually. 
 Today, the Senate will consider the reappointments to the board of Ms. Paprocki and of Michael T. Berns, a former Conservative Party county chairman from Manhattan. 
 In a variation of musical chairs, they would be swapping seats. Ms. Paprocki would serve through 2011, Mr. Berns through 2007. 
 Mr. Pataki's most controversial late-term appointment so far was of Mr. Kalikow, a real estate developer and Pataki patron, to a new six-year term as unsalaried chairman of the transportation authority. Mr. Kalikow said at the time that he was committed to his unfinished transit agenda and had no intention of quitting even if the incoming governor asked him to. 
 ''Appointing people to the M.T.A. into 2013 -- we're at the end of the second Spitzer administration,'' Mr. Paterson said.
 Mr. Kalikow was far from alone. Among other such recent appointees are Maureen Harris, whose brother is a lobbyist and was Mr. Pataki's chief counsel, and Cheryl Buley, whose husband is counsel to the Republican State Committee, to six-year terms at $109,800 a year on the Public Service Commission, which oversees utilities. 
 Mr. Pataki also appointed Eileen Long-Chelales, the daughter of the state's Conservative Party chairman, to a five-year term on the State Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board. She is a former Pataki aide and a veteran of state government. 
 Charles A. Gargano, the chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation and one of the governor's closest advisers, was reappointed to the board of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey for a term expiring in 2012. 
 Caroline W. Ahl, a deputy secretary to the governor, was named to a $90,800 slot on the Civil Service Commission. 
 Today the Senate will also consider nominees to a number of agencies, including the New York Convention Center Operating Corporation, the State Insurance Fund and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
 In June, Senator Paterson calculated that Mr. Pataki had made 262 such appointments since Jan. 1, to positions on agencies and boards that include the State Liquor Authority, the State Parole Board, the State Racing and Wagering Board and the State Council on the Arts.
 Mr. Paterson said that when those nominations were rushed through the Senate during the last week of June, on one of several days when the votes were taken, he ''voted against everybody in a symbolic gesture.''
 ''I feel really bad voting against people I don't know,'' he said. 
 While many of the appointments are honorary and unsalaried, they often include perquisites. And appointments to policy-making positions can tie the hands of a successor.
 Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky, a Westchester County Democrat, said that after treating supposedly independent authorities as cash cows and patronage mills for years, the Pataki administration is justifying the filling of vacancies by maintaining that the authorities are supposed to be independent of any governor. ''It's like an emancipation proclamation: 'On my way out, I'm liberating you,' '' said Mr. Brodsky, a frequent critic of public authorities. 
 To which Mr. Marr, the governor's spokesman, replied, ''Some of the loudest voices talking in the past about the independence of authorities and commissions now seem to be arguing that their boards be completely dependent on who they wish to be the next governor.''
 As of late yesterday, Governor Pataki had submitted about 50 more nominees to the Senate to consider today. That would bring the number since Jan. 1 to more than 300, with more than three months remaining before he leaves office.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter S. Kalikow was given six more years to lead the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. (Photo by Richard Drew/Associated Press)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (74%); WILLS (65%); ESTATE PLANNING (60%) Public Authorities; Departments and Agencies

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%); DAVID PATERSON (57%) Sam Roberts; George E (Gov) Pataki; Peter S Kalikow

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State; New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



302 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Progress or Regress?

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Is the typical American family better off than it was a generation ago? That's the subject of an intense debate these days, as commentators try to understand the sour mood of the American public.
 But it's the wrong debate. For one thing, there probably isn't a right answer. Most Americans are better off in some ways, worse off in others, than they were in the early 1970's. It's a subjective judgment whether the good outweighs the bad. And as I'll explain, that ambiguity is actually the real message.
Here's what the numbers say. From the end of World War II until 1973, when the first oil crisis brought an end to the postwar boom, the U.S. economy delivered a huge, broad-based rise in living standards: family income adjusted for inflation roughly doubled for the poor, the middle class, and the elite alike. Nobody debated whether families were better off than they had been a generation ago; it was obvious that they were, by any measure. 
 Since 1973, however, the picture has been mixed. Real median household income -- the income of the household in the middle of the income distribution, adjusted for inflation -- rose a modest 16 percent between 1973 and 2005. But even this small rise didn't reflect clear gains across the board. The typical full-time male worker saw his wages, adjusted for inflation, actually fall; the typical household's real income was up only because women's wages rose (although by far less than everyone's wages rose during the postwar boom) and because more women were working.
 The debate over the state of the middle class, for the most part, is about whether these numbers understate or overstate the true progress achieved by typical families. The optimists point to technological advances that, they argue, don't get reflected in official estimates of the standard of living. In 1973, you couldn't chat on a cellphone, watch a video or surf the Internet; many medical conditions that are now easily managed with drugs were untreatable; and so on. 
 The pessimists point to ways in which life has deteriorated, things that also aren't counted by the official statistics. Traffic has gotten far worse, and commutes have gotten longer. The economic riskiness of life has increased: year-to-year fluctuations in family income have grown much larger. The rat race has intensified, as families, no longer confident in the quality of public education, stretch to buy houses in good school districts -- and often go bankrupt when misfortune strikes in the form of a layoff for either spouse or high medical bills. 
 Does the good outweigh the bad? Never mind. As I said, the ambiguity is the message.
 Consider this: The United States economy is far richer and more productive than it was a generation ago. Statistics on economic growth aside, think of all the technological advances that have made workers more productive over the past generation. In 1973, there were no personal computers, let alone the Internet. Even fax machines were rare, expensive items, and there were no bar-code scanners at checkout counters. Freight containerization was still uncommon. The list goes on and on.
 Yet in spite of all this technological progress, which has allowed the average American worker to produce much more, we're not sure whether there was any rise in the typical worker's pay. Only those at the upper end of the income distribution saw clear gains -- gains that were enormous for the lucky few at the very top. 
 That's why the debate over whether the middle class is a bit better off or a bit worse off now than a generation ago misses the point. What we should be debating is why technological and economic progress has done so little for most Americans, and what changes in government policies would spread the benefits of progress more widely. An effort to shore up middle-class health insurance, paid for by a rollback of recent tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans -- something like the plan proposed by John Kerry two years ago, but more ambitious -- would be a good place to start.
 Instead, the people running our government are fixated on cutting tax rates for the wealthy even further. And their solution to Americans' justified economic anxiety is a public relations campaign, an effort to convince middle-class families that their problems are a figment of their imagination. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (88%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); TRENDS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); STATISTICS (66%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); WORLD WAR II (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) United States Economy; Social Conditions and Trends; Life Styles ; Income; Families and Family Life

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (53%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



303 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: China Defends New Curbs On the Sale of Wire News

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
Chinese officials on Thursday promised that new rules restricting the sale of foreign wire service news would not affect press freedoms. But they also strongly defended efforts to control the distribution of financial and economic news inside the country.
 The New China News Agency, China's main government news agency, also known as Xinhua, issued regulations on Sunday that would make it the gatekeeper, and presumably also the revenue collector, for all kinds of reports from news agencies sold in China.
The regulations threaten to disrupt a business valued by major Western financial news providers, including Reuters and Bloomberg, at about $100 million a year. Most of the revenue comes from banks and brokerage houses that subscribe to Western news and data services to keep abreast of developments affecting stock, bond and currency markets. Very few news outlets in China subscribe directly to foreign wire services. 
 The news agency's attempt to commandeer that business, a repeat of a failed effort it undertook in 1996, raised charges that it sought to use its regulatory authority to enhance its bottom line.
 The United States, the European Union and the major players in the financial news and information business protested the agency's announcement, prompting a vigorous and so far uncompromising defense from Chinese officials.
 ''Other agencies of the government will ensure that Xinhua will not monopolize the news industry,'' Liu Binjie, deputy director of the General Administration of Press and Publication, said at a news briefing in Beijing on Thursday. ''The policy of opening up to foreign news agencies remains the same and will not change.''
 Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said in London on Wednesday that the rules had been misunderstood and that his government would ensure the ''freedom and rights'' of foreign media.
 Officials said the regulations were extensions of existing media controls that sought mainly to enhance, perfect and standardize the rules for selling news and financial and economic data to domestic organizations without unduly restricting such activities.
 But China has also undertaken a sustained crackdown on journalists and media organizations to ensure compliance with the propaganda standards of the ruling Communist Party. The regulations present the New China News Agency with an opportunity to gain a foothold in an area where it has struggled to compete against its Western rivals.
 Under the rules, foreign news agencies would no longer be allowed to solicit subscribers in China and would have to channel their business through agents designated by the news agency. 
 In the past, the agency has sought to command a hefty share of revenues generated by such subscriptions. When it promulgated similar rules in 1996, it demanded a 40 percent cut of revenues from subscriptions, said Western agencies that fought the rule.
 It quickly retreated from those demands a decade ago under heavy international pressure. It subsequently sought to build its own financial information services, but it has failed to capture more than a small slice of the revenues that Western agencies earn in China.
 The agency issued its own statement on Thursday in which it sought to clarify its new position, contending that it was acting purely as a regulatory agency and would not seek profit from the rules it was imposing.
 ''Xinhua aims to regulate the release of news and information in China by foreign news agencies and the subscription of such news and information by users in China,'' it said, citing an unnamed agency official. ''Xinhua seeks no economic gains therefrom.''
 The agency insisted that it was mainly acting as a censor of news and financial information to ensure that news coming into China did not threaten national security, provoke social or ethnic unrest or promote the spread of religious cults.
 Neither the agency nor any of the officials who spoke about the new regulations cited examples of how news or financial information distributed to banks and brokerage houses had harmed China's security.
 The foreign minister of Finland, which holds the presidency of the European Union, told reporters that the curbs might be aimed at securing the news agency's position in China's financial information market.
 ''There may also be commercial reasons, say guarding the monopoly of the China news agency, as a reason behind it,'' the foreign minister, Erkki Tuomioja, said in Helsinki at a meeting of European and Asian leaders.
 But Mr. Liu of China's press and publications department said the rules would not give the agency an unfair grip on information. He also stressed that he did not believe the regulations violated China's commitments under the World Trade Organization.
 ''The regulations impose many constraining conditions on Xinhua, and there is no problem of impeding competition in the market,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); TRENDS (64%); CURRENCIES (54%); BOND MARKETS (54%) News and News Media; Government Information Policies; Economic Conditions and Trends; Finances; Freedom of the Press; News and News Media

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (57%) Joseph Kahn

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



304 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: Raymond Mikesell, 93, Economist

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., Sept. 14 

 BODY:
Raymond Mikesell, an economist who was part of the Bretton Woods Conference at the end of World War II, died on Tuesday at his home in Eugene, Ore. He was 93. 
 His death was confirmed by officials at the University of Oregon, where he was an emeritus professor of economics.
Mr. Mikesell was the aide to Harry Dexter White, an economist and Treasury official who led the formation of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank during the historic July 1944 conference at the Mount Washington Hotel in Bretton Woods, N.H.
 The I.M.F. and the bank helped provide funds for the European recovery from the war and opened up the modern era of global economic expansion.
 Professor Mikesell's most significant contribution to the design of the I.M.F. was devising the numerical formula for calculating each member country's ''quota,'' which is the main determinant of the member's voting rights in the fund, its financial contribution and the amount that it can borrow, according to James M. Boughton, historian of the I.M.F. This formula, with some variation, is still in use, he said.
 Mr. Mikesell earned his doctorate in 1939 from Ohio State University. He went to work for the federal government after several years as a faculty member of the University of Washington.
 After the war, Mr. Mikesell became a professor at the University of Virginia. 
 In his later years, Mr. Mikesell argued for reform of the I.M.F. and for abolition of the World Bank, which he argued had become a useless and expensive bureaucracy.
 His first two wives, Desyl and Irene, and two sons, George and Norman, died before him. He is survived by his wife of 10 years, Grace, and her three children, Norman Hill of Detroit, Alice Kaser of Eugene, and Cynthia Bulgach Hill of Los Angeles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HISTORY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (58%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUGENE, OR, USA (93%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (58%) OREGON, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



305 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Guilty Plea Expected From Former Senate Leader in Trenton

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
A former New Jersey Senate president whose political machine made him the state's most influential figure is scheduled to appear on Friday in federal court, where he is expected to plead guilty to charges of tax evasion and misusing his public office to enrich his own business, lawyers involved in the case said on Thursday.
 At the height of his power, the Democratic boss, John A. Lynch Jr., served as political mentor to a little-known state senator named James E. McGreevey, whom he guided to the governor's office in 2001. 
At the heart of his criminal case are business deals in 1998 and 1999, the lawyers said.
 The tax evasion charges reportedly stem from a commission, or ''success fee,'' that Mr Lynch and his business partner, Jack Westlake, received for the sale of a property on Route 1 in Middlesex County in 1999. Mr. Westlake received a $350,000 commission that he did not declare as income, his lawyer, John Whipple, said, and he will plead guilty to a single count of tax evasion, which carries a sentence of at least 10 months in prison.
 Mr. Lynch declined to return calls requesting comment about the case. But others familiar with the plea negotiations said that Mr. Lynch failed to declare income of more than $30,000 from that transaction, and that he will plead guilty to tax evasion.
 People involved in the case said that the corruption charge against Mr. Lynch involved a business deal in 1998, when he was still Senate president, but no other details were available. Mr. Lynch is expected to face a prison sentence of 33 to 41 months, lawyers involved in the negotiations said.
 The indictment of Mr. Lynch -- who is widely referred to as one of New Jersey's five major Democratic Party bosses -- is a major achievement for the United States attorney, Christopher J. Christie. 
 Mr. Christie, a former Republican fund-raiser, had no experience in criminal investigations when he took the post in 2001, but his office has won a wide assortment of corruption convictions against Democratic and Republican officials alike, a record that has made many of his party leaders urge him to run for statewide office.
 Mr. Christie declined to discuss the case, and his press office would not confirm any details about the court appearance, which is scheduled to take place before Judge Stanley R. Chesler of Federal District Court.
 Mr. Lynch, 67, has often bristled at the term "party boss," a phrase that does not capture his intellect (he finished fifth in his class at Georgetown Law School) or the policy expertise that made him a widely respected expert on urban renewal. Although he was frequently criticized for mixing politics and business and for his close relationship with real estate developers, Mr. Lynch has long insisted that he never misused his position.
 'The state has to have some development, so you try to achieve a balance," he told The New York Times in an interview late last year. "That's why I'm proud of what I'm doing."
 As mayor of New Brunswick from 1979 to 1991, he was credited with reviving the blighted city. Mr. Lynch then moved to the State Senate, where he won respect for his skill at balancing politics, policy and fiscal restraint. In 1990, he followed in his father's footsteps and was elected Senate president.
 Mr. Lynch was also quick to realize that money was the fuel of modern politics, and his skill at raising it gave him vast political reach and won him access to business leaders, diplomats and powerful Washington Democrats. 
 After seeing Democrats run out of power in Trenton by a voter backlash to Gov. Jim Florio's tax increases, Mr. Lynch honed his fund-raising skills and methodically plotted the party's comeback strategy. 
 He stepped down from his State Senate seat in 2000 but continued to work behind the scenes, and by November 2001, when his protege Mr. McGreevey was elected governor, Democrats one again controlled both the executive branch and the State Legislature.
 But the investigation that led to his legal woes stemmed from a billboard deal that occurred a month before Mr. McGreevey took office.
 In 2002, federal authorities began investigating whether Mr. McGreevey's chief of staff and chief counsel used their positions on the transition team to inflate the value of a billboard company they later sold at a profit.
 No criminal charges have ever been filed for the billboard deal itself, but a consulting firm called Executive Continental -- owned by Mr. Lynch and Mr. Westlake -- made a profit from the transaction, leading federal investigators down the trail that led to the charges against the two men.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 15 about an expected guilty plea by John A. Lynch Jr., a former New Jersey Senate president, in a tax evasion and political corruption case misstated his position in 1998, the year of a business deal said to be the basis of the corruption charge. At the time, he was a state senator, not the Senate president.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John A. Lynch Jr., the former president of New Jersey's Senate. (Photo by Home News Tribune via Associated Press)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (94%); GUILTY PLEAS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); SENTENCING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); REAL ESTATE (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); JUDGES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (70%); ETHICS (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); FUNDRAISING (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Ethics; Tax Evasion; Legislatures and Parliaments

PERSON: David Kocieniewski; John A (Former Sen) Lynch; Christopher J (US Atty) Christie

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



306 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; THE CHURN; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 289 words

 BODY:

People
 Paul M. Basta, formerly with Weil, Gotshal & Manges, has joined Kirkland & Ellis as a partner in its restructuring practice in New York. 
 Lehman Brothers has named Francesco Caio, formerly chief executive of Cable and Wireless, a vice chairman in Europe. He will be based in London. Scott Schaevitz has joined Lehman as a managing director in the global real estate investment banking group, while Lisa Beeson has joined as a managing director in the real estate mergers and acquisitions group. The two executives arrive from Wachovia.
Ore Hill Partners, a $1.9 billion hedge fund manager, has named Sam DeRosa-Farag president, a new position, and a partner. He joins from Credit Suisse.
 William Woodburn has been named partner of Global Infrastructure Partners, a joint venture of Credit Suisse and GE Infrastructure. Mr. Woodburn has spent 22 years at General Electric as an executive.
 BNP Paribas has named Sonal Khot and Inho Choi directors in its structured credit group. Both were previously with J. P. Morgan Chase. 
 Deutsche Bank has promoted Zar Amrolia to global head of foreign exchange. Nicholas Hegarty has joined Deutsche from Barclays Capital as head of global banking in the Persian Gulf.
 Barclays Capital has appointed Dan Waldman as an associate director and senior foreign exchange economist. He joins from Merrill Lynch.
 PricewaterhouseCoopers has begun a new business, PricewaterhouseCoopers Corporate Advisory and Restructuring, and has named Tom Sperry its United States markets leader. 
 Rachel B. Coan, previously with LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae, has joined Morrison & Foerster as a partner in the New York office.
 Arnold & Porter has named Thomas E. McLain a partner in its Los Angeles office.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%) Corporations; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (91%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (91%); DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (91%); ARNOLD & PORTER LLP (90%); MORRISON & FOERSTER LLP (90%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); BNP PARIBAS SA (57%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (55%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (83%); GEC (LSE) (83%); GE (SWX) (83%); GE (NYSE) (83%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); JPM (NYSE) (57%); JPM (LSE) (57%); 8634 (TSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); BNP (PAR) (57%); BNP (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); INDIAN OCEAN (52%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



307 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Billionaire In Mexico Settles Case With S.E.C.

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
The billionaire tycoon Ricardo Salinas Pliego and the Securities and Exchange Commission of the United States reached a settlement on Thursday in the first lawsuit against a foreign company under the corporate governance rules of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 
 Mr. Salinas Pliego, who owns Mexico's second-largest broadcaster, TV Azteca, agreed to pay $7.5 million in penalties and compensation to settle accusations of fraud involving a scheme to conceal a deal between a TV Azteca subsidiary and a company secretly owned by Mr. Salinas.
In the settlement, Mr. Salinas Pliego neither admitted or denied wrongdoing. One of his executives, Pedro Padilla Longoria, agreed to pay $1 million. 
 TV Azteca, which was also a defendant in the case, said in a statement that the settlement ''does not entail economic consequences'' for the company. Mr. Salinas Pliego had no comment. 
 Under the agreement, Mr. Salinas Pliego and Mr. Padilla are forbidden to serve as executives or directors of any publicly listed American company. Mr. Salinas Pliego delisted his companies from the New York Stock Exchange last year, arguing that ''excessive regulation'' was a burden. 
 The S.E.C. charged Mr. Salinas Pliego with fraud in January 2005 in connection with a debt deal involving what was then the cellphone unit of TV Azteca. A company called Codisco, secretly owned by Mr. Salinas Pliego and a partner, bought discounted debt owed by the cellphone unit. 
 The cellphone unit later paid back the debt at full price to Codisco. Mr. Salinas Pliego and his partner each made a profit of $109 million. 
 Mr. Salinas Pliego did not reveal his involvement in Codisco to his board and to regulators until TV Azteca's lawyer in New York resigned at the end for 2003. That led to investigations by the S.E.C. and the National Banking and Securities Commission of Mexico. 
 The S.E.C. also accused Mr. Salinas Pliego and his executives of engaging ''in an elaborate scheme to conceal Salinas's role,'' and said that Mr. Salinas Pliego sold TV Azteca stock while his involvement in the debt deal remained undisclosed. 
 Another executive, Luis Echarte, settled earlier with the S.E.C. 
 Mr. Salinas Pliego has argued that the debt deal was legal and that his actions helped save the cellphone unit. 
 The executive, who is not related to former President Carlos Salinas, has a reputation for using his successful companies -- which include a national chain of furniture and appliance stores and a bank -- to finance unrelated projects. 
 Through local affiliates, Mr. Salinas Pliego is building a Spanish-language television network in the United States.
 Last year, Mr. Salinas Pliego paid $2.3 million in fines to Mexican regulators. Corporate governance advocates in Mexico saw the case as a test of Mexico's new securities laws, which include criminal penalties. Mr. Salinas Pliego was never prosecuted. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (87%); DELISTINGS (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); ETHICS (77%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); CRIMINAL FINES (61%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (60%); FURNITURE STORES (50%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Suits and Litigation; Frauds and Swindling; Cellular Telephones; Decisions and Verdicts; Fines (Penalties); Telephones and Telecommunications; Law and Legislation; Ethics; Boards of Directors

COMPANY: TV AZTECA SA DE CV (92%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%) Securities and Exchange Commission; Codisco

TICKER: AZTECA (BMV) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: Ricardo Salinas Pliego; Elisabeth Malkin; Pedro Padilla Longoria

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%) Mexico; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



308 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: Import Certificates Proposed to Shrink Trade Gap 

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14 

 BODY:
Any company that wants to import goods into the United States would have to get a government certificate, under a plan to eliminate the nation's trade deficit proposed by two Democratic senators Thursday. 
 ''We're choking on trade debt and it is becoming a bigger and bigger danger to our country by the day,'' said Senator Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota. ''We need a new strategy, and that is what we are proposing today.''
 The United States trade gap reached a record $717 billion in 2005 and is on track to exceed $800 billion this year. About a quarter of the deficit is with China alone.
 Mr. Dorgan and Senator Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin said the bill would create a market-based system to cut the trade deficit to zero within 10 years.
 Under the measure, companies that export goods from the United States would be issued a certificate to import goods. The exporter could use the certificate or sell it to another company, the senators said.
 The plan would be phased in over five years, with $1 in exports earning $1.40 in import certificates the first year, $1.30 the second year, $1.20 the third year and so on.
 For oil, the phase-in period would be 10 years, to give the economy time to find and develop alternative energy supplies, the senators said.
 Sherman E. Katz, a trade scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said the plan was an impractical approach to reducing the deficit that would burden American consumers with higher prices and anger trading partners.
 ''This is well intentioned, but it looks on the face of it to represent an enormous intrusion of government activity'' into business totaling trillions of dollars each year, he said.
 Although it appeared unlikely that Congress would vote on the proposal anytime soon, Mr. Feingold told reporters he thought lawmakers were ''looking for new ideas'' to bring down the trade deficit.
 Mr. Feingold criticized the North American Free Trade Agreement and trade agreements with China and Central America that he said had contributed to the deficit and had led to job losses in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%) International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation

PERSON: BYRON DORGAN (79%); RUSS FEINGOLD (79%) Byron L (Sen) Dorgan; Russell D (Sen) Feingold

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



309 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1294 words

PERSON: Ann W. Richards

HEADLINE: Ann Richards, Plain-Spoken Texas Governor Who Aided Minorities, Dies at 73

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN; Reprinted from yesterday's late editions.

 BODY:
Ann W. Richards, the silver-haired Texas activist who galvanized the 1988 Democratic National Convention with her tart keynote speech and was the state's 45th governor until upset in 1994 by an underestimated challenger named George W. Bush, died Wednesday at her home in Austin. She was 73.
 The cause was complications of esophageal cancer, a family spokeswoman, Cathy Bonner, said. Ms. Bonner said the illness was diagnosed in March.
A champion of civil rights for minorities, women and gay men and lesbians, Ms. Richards first ran for governor in 1990 calling for a ''New Texas'' that would offer more opportunity and power to those groups. 
 She went on to become one of the most effective in a long line of Texas progressives who vied for control of the state when it was largely a Democratic stronghold. But her defeat after one term was a strong signal that generations of Democratic dominance in Texas had ended.
 If one Mr. Bush closed out her political career, another figured into her rise, as a target of her barbs. ''Poor George, he can't help it,'' Ms. Richards said at the 1988 Democratic convention in Atlanta, speaking about the current president's father, former President George Bush. ''He was born with a silver foot in his mouth.''
 Her saucy, plain-spoken keynote address, borrowing from the great tradition of vernacular Southern oratory, was one of the year's political highlights. ''We're gonna tell how the cow ate the cabbage,'' she said at one point. 
 The speech transformed her, then the Texas treasurer, into a national figure. And it made her, a mother of four, an admired champion of feminism. ''Ginger Rogers did everything Fred Astaire did,'' she told the national audience. ''She just did it backwards and in high heels.''
 Her defeat in 1994, coming in a year of sweeping Republican success at the polls nationwide, did not dim her celebrity on the national stage. She continued to speak out on behalf of liberal causes, was a regular commentator on CNN and appeared in national advertising campaigns, including one for snack chips.
 She also went to work as a senior adviser for the international law firm of Verner, Lipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand (now DLA Piper) and later for the public relations company Public Strategies. She also served on numerous boards of directors, including those of J. C. Penney, Brandeis University and the Aspen Institute.
 Dorothy Ann Willis was born Sept. 1, 1933, an only child, in Lakeview, Tex. She graduated in 1950 from Waco High School, where she showed a special facility for debate and met her future husband, David Richards. In her junior year, she attended the Girls State mock government program in Austin and was one of two delegates chosen to attend Girls Nation in Washington. 
 Ms. Richards went on to enroll at Baylor University in Waco on a debate scholarship and married. After graduating, she and Mr. Richards moved to Austin, where she earned a teaching certificate at the University of Texas in 1955 and taught social studies for several years at Fulmore Middle School. She reared her four children -- Cecile, Daniel, Clark and Ellen -- in Austin, and they were with her at home when she died, Ms. Bonner said. 
 Ms. Richards is also survived by eight grandchildren. Cecile Richards, who became president of Planned Parenthood this year, lives in New York; the other siblings live in Austin.
 As a young woman, Ann Richards volunteered in several campaigns for governor: in 1958 for Henry B. Gonzalez and in 1952, 1954 and 1956 for Ralph Yarborough. She then helped Mr. Yarborough's senatorial campaign in 1957. 
 In the early 1960's, she and a handful of other young Democrats founded North Dallas Democratic Women in an effort to give more power to women in the party. ''The regular Democratic Party and its organization was run by men who looked on women as little more than machine parts,'' she said later.
 In 1972, she ran her first campaign, helping elect to the Texas Legislature Sarah Weddington, who had successfully argued Roe v. Wade before the United States Supreme Court.
 In 1976, Ms. Richards defeated a three-term incumbent to become a commissioner in Travis County, which includes Austin. She held the job for four years. She also began drinking heavily, becoming alcoholic and putting great strain on her marriage, she said later. The marriage ended in divorce.
 After entering rehabilitation, she stopped drinking in 1980 and later said that the decision to seek help had saved her life and salvaged her political career.
 ''I have seen the very bottom of life,'' she said. ''I was so afraid I wouldn't be funny anymore. I just knew that I would lose my zaniness and my sense of humor. But I didn't. Recovery turned out to be a wonderful thing.''
 In 1982, she ran for state treasurer and received the most votes of any statewide candidate, becoming the first woman elected to statewide office in Texas in 50 years. She was re-elected in 1986.
 In 1990, when Gov. William P. Clements Jr., the first Republican governor of Texas since Reconstruction, decided not to run for re-election, Ms. Richards challenged a former governor, Mark White, in the Democratic primary and won. She went on to defeat the Republican candidate, Clayton Williams, a wealthy rancher, in the general election after a brutal campaign. 
 As governor, among other achievements, she fulfilled her campaign promise to bring more blacks, Hispanics and women into public office. She appointed the first black regent to the University of Texas and installed the first blacks and women on the state's legendary police force, the Texas Rangers. She also pushed for tougher penalties for polluters and gained control of the state's insurance board in a drive to reduce the industry's influence over state government. 
 Ms. Richards oversaw an expansion of the state's prison system, increasing the space for prisoners by a third, and cracked down on the number of prisoners being paroled. She also instituted a major substance abuse program for prisoners and championed creation of the Texas lottery as a source of public school financing. She bought the first lotto ticket herself on May 29, 1992.
 The same year, she was named chairwoman of the Democratic National Convention, which nominated Bill Clinton for president for the first time.
 Two years later, she underestimated her young Republican challenger from West Texas, George W. Bush, going so far as to refer to him as ''some jerk.'' The comment drew considerable criticism. She later acknowledged that Mr. Bush had been more effective than she at ''staying on message'' and that he had made none of the mistakes that her campaign strategists had expected. She was beaten 53 percent to 46 percent.
 Ms. Richards was a co-author of several books, including ''Straight from the Heart: My Life in Politics and Other Places'' (Simon & Schuster, 1989), with Peter Knobler, and ''I'm Not Slowing Down: Winning My Battle with Osteoporosis'' (Dutton, 2003), with Richard U. Levine, a doctor. 
 On her 60th birthday, she got a motorcycle license, an event that was commemorated in a cover photo in Texas Monthly showing Ms. Richards's head superimposed on the body of a woman in a fringed jacket atop a Harley-Davidson beneath the headline ''White Hot Mama.''
 In recent years, Ms. Richards had worked to establish the Ann Richards School for Young Women Leaders, a public college preparatory school in Austin. It will open next year, giving priority to economically disadvantaged students. She was also a sought-after commentator and speaker whose observations had lost little of their tart humor since her national emergence two decades ago.
 As she once explained, ''I learned early on that people liked you if you made them laugh.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with the obituary of Ann W. Richards, the former Texas governor, misstated the year she gave the keynote speech at the Democratic National Convention. It was 1988, not 1998.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ann Richards delivered the keynote address at the 1998 Democratic national convention in Atlanta. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); GOVERNORS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); CELEBRITIES (61%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (60%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%); GASTROINTESTINAL CANCER (56%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information; Governors (US)

COMPANY: DLA PIPER LLP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (51%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (51%)

GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Rick Lyman

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Texas

CATEGORY: Politics and Gov't (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



310 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: MetLife Plans a Return to Midtown From Queens

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Five years ago, the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company announced plans to move most of its Manhattan employees to Long Island City in a much-ballyhooed effort to establish a low-cost business district in Queens and stem the flow of white-collar jobs to New Jersey. In return, the Giuliani administration granted the company $26.4 million in tax breaks.
 Now it is planning a trip back across the East River. Within the next several days, MetLife is expected to sign a tentative deal to move the bulk of its 1,700 workers back to Manhattan, into a 42nd Street skyscraper -- the former Verizon Building -- where the rents are at least triple what it pays in Queens, according to city officials and executives working with the company. 
MetLife declined to comment, saying it does not discuss speculation in the marketplace.
 MetLife has told the Bloomberg administration that it needs a substantial Manhattan presence since it is now the largest life insurer in North America, according to city officials, who have been negotiating with the company for more than a month to keep some workers in Queens.
 Under the terms of the original deal, the city could demand that the company repay two times the roughly $12 million in incentives it has used up to now.
 The Queens neighborhood has seen a good deal of development -- some commercial, but especially residential -- but MetLife's decision is considered a setback for the city's effort to develop Long Island City, and Queens Plaza in particular, as an alternative to low-cost office space in Jersey City.
 ''MetLife's departure doesn't help,'' said Barry M. Gosin, chief executive of Newmark Knight Frank, a real estate company. ''Long Island City is a great opportunity waiting to happen. Somebody has to do something big out there in order for it to get traction.''
 City Councilman Eric Gioia, who represents the neighborhood, said he regretted the insurer's decision. But, he added: ''They got a lot of taxpayer benefits to move here. The city should recoup every dime.''
 Senior company executives apparently found the gritty Queens neighborhood lacking in good restaurants and too far from Midtown, though it is a few subway stops away. The company also complained that an early-morning bus dropped off prisoners released from Rikers Island jails on a street corner about four blocks away from its front door.
 Senior executives and about 1,200 other employees would move to the former Verizon Building, a 41-story skyscraper overlooking Bryant Park at 42nd Street and Avenue of the Americas. Real estate executives say that annual rents in the tower, which is undergoing a $260 million makeover, are about $80 per square foot.
 The plans to return renew questions about the wisdom of plying large companies with tax breaks to keep them from relocating employees outside the city. In 2001, MetLife threatened to move to New Jersey ''to reduce the cost of operating in the city,'' according to the subsequent agreement it signed with the city. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani granted the millions in subsidies to lure it out to a former automobile factory in Queens, where rents were about $25 a square foot.
 ''MetLife's decision to move back to Manhattan highlights the ineffectiveness of giving away multimillions in tax incentives to individual firms,'' said Jonathan Bowles, research director of the Center for an Urban Future, a New York nonprofit research group. ''It seems like the city always gets burned in the end. MetLife is certainly entitled to move back to Manhattan if that will help them be more competitive in attracting and retaining employees, but the company shouldn't be allowed to use city subsidies to do so.''
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has generally opposed granting the kind of tax breaks that were so popular under the Giuliani administration. The city does not want to alienate the company, either, especially since it had considered moving everyone out of Queens, officials said. 
 The city has sought a longer commitment from MetLife to keep a contingent of workers in Long Island City and a larger number of employees in New York City as a whole. Under the terms of the current deal, officials said, MetLife could relocate up to 30 percent of its Queens employees next year.
 Today, MetLife has a total of 2,500 employees in New York City, down from 2,860 in 2001.
 ''We're encouraging MetLife to keep a critical mass of jobs in Long Island City,'' said Joshua J. Sirefman, acting president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. ''We would like to have them extend the length of their commitment to both Long Island City, New York City generally. We intend to do so without granting any additional benefits.''
 MetLife, which acquired Travelers Life and Annuity last year in an $11.5 billion deal, is a larger, more important global corporation than when it moved to Queens. But it has a shrinking presence in New York City, where it began in 1863 and counted 17,000 employees during the 1960's. After moving most of its employees to Long Island City, MetLife sold its three major buildings in Manhattan for $3.3 billion, including its 50-story clock tower and two-towered headquarters on Madison Avenue. It kept a boardroom and a small corporate suite at 200 Park Avenue, the former Pan Am Building.
 Recently, MetLife put the two middle-class apartment complexes it built for returning World War II veterans -- Peter Cooper Village and Stuyvesant Town -- on the auction block, hoping to get about $5 billion. That decision has drawn feverish interest from potential bidders, and criticism from politicians who lamented the possibility that rent regulations on 11,200 apartments could be lost in a sale.
 MetLife's decision does not help the Queens Plaza neighborhood, where developers have waited for years for an anchor tenant for a new commercial complex. But blocks away, Long Island City's main commercial district near the 48-story Citigroup Tower is finally thriving. Citigroup is erecting a second building, and the United Nations Federal Credit Union and the New York Blood Bank are moving in nearby. A developer is converting the former Eagle Electric factory into luxury lofts.
 ''I'm sorry to see them go, especially now because Long Island City had reached a positive tipping point,'' Councilman Gioia said. ''Every day new restaurants and people are moving in. MetLife was a trailblazer, but now they won't enjoy the benefits of the neighborhood's rebirth.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%) Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Relocation of Business; Relocation of Personnel; Insurance

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (93%); BGC PARTNERS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co; Metlife Inc

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (93%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (93%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (93%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%) Charles V Bagli; Rudolph W Giuliani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) New York City; Long Island City (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



311 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Changing Its Tune; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: Broadcast Radio Is Scrambling To Regain Its Groove

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

 BODY:
The radio industry keeps losing people like Danny C. Costa, a senior at Boston University who grew up listening to radio in New York and New Jersey.
 For the last few years, Mr. Costa has tuned out radio in favor of Web sites where he can get access to downloads or videos he heard about from friends. He prefers these to the drumbeat of the Top 40. He burns his favorite songs onto CD's or copies them onto his iPod.
''I just sort of stopped listening to radio, because I had access to all this music online,'' Mr. Costa said.
 While more than 9 out of 10 Americans still listen to traditional radio each week, they are listening less. And the industry is having to confront many challenges like those that have enticed Mr. Costa, including streaming audio, podcasting, iPods and Howard Stern on satellite radio. 
 As a result, the prospects of radio companies have dimmed significantly since the late 1990's, when broadcast barons were tripping over themselves to buy more stations. Radio revenue growth has stagnated and the number of listeners is dropping. The amount of time people tune into radio over the course of a week has fallen by 14 percent over the last decade, according to Arbitron ratings. 
 Over the last three years, the stocks of the five largest publicly traded radio companies are down between 30 percent and 60 percent as investors wonder when the industry will bottom out. 
 Now, radio's woes have spurred a new wave of deal making.
 Clear Channel Communications, the nation's largest radio operator, is now considering selling some of its 1,200 stations in smaller markets after years of acquiring everything in sight, according to industry analysts. The CBS Corporation did the same thing recently and now says it is looking at further station sales. The Walt Disney Company struck a deal this summer to get out of the radio business altogether, and in May, Susquehanna Broadcasting, the nation's largest privately held radio group, was sold to another broadcaster.
 But rewriting the ownership map is just part of radio's scramble to find a new groove. In the last year, the industry has moved into overdrive by increasing experimentation with new formats and starting digital initiatives like HD Radio -- a nascent format that will allow listeners with special tuners to hear more specialized channels. Radio companies are moving fast into Web businesses that incorporate video and other features that could not have been imagined when commercial radio first appeared nearly nine decades ago. 
 ''It's not a debate any more that radio is a structurally declining sector,'' said Michael Nathanson, media analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. ''What you're starting to see are strategic changes in operating models to address the sluggishness of growth.''
 What has set radio apart from other challenged media businesses -- like video rentals, magazines, television stations and newspapers -- was the swiftness of its fall from grace on Wall Street. 
 A possible reason is that unlike other media businesses, radio appears to have come late to the game of focusing on viable online business models. Although digital revenues are growing fast, they accounted for only $87 million of the industry's $20 billion in 2005 revenues, according to Veronis Suhler Stevenson Communications.
 It is not just students in their dorms who are spending their listening time elsewhere. 
 Larry R. Glassman, a surgeon who does lung transplants and commutes between Cold Spring Harbor and Manhasset, N.Y., each day, used to tune into radio for his 40-minute drive, particularly to hear his classic rock favorites. 
 But now he subscribes to XM Radio, and recently had an XM receiver installed in a new boat. ''Some of the programming I just flip over,'' he said, adding that he would listen to XM in surgery if he could. Instead, ''I use the iPod in the operating room.''
 Mr. Glassman, who is 51, said he turned a deaf ear to radio primarily because of the advertising and because he finds the playlists of his favorite stations too mainstream and limited. 
 Broadcast radio advertising over all was up 0.3 percent in 2005, lagging in growth in comparison with the gross domestic product for the third consecutive year. It will continue to lag economic growth for the next five years, according to Veronis Suhler. (Only the newspaper industry gets a slower top-line growth prognosis.)
 Radio's digital efforts come as the nation's two satellite radio companies -- XM and Sirius -- have amassed more than 11 million subscribers drawn to the services' marquee names, led by Mr. Stern and various sports leagues, niche programming, sound quality and fewer or no advertisements. Still, some broadcasters argue that satellite has grabbed an unfair share of buzz given that its audience subscribers pale beside the roughly 230 million Americans who listen to old-fashioned free radio. 
 ''As an industry, we've lost the hipness battle,'' said Jeffrey H. Smulyan, the chief executive of Emmis Broadcasting. ''Like a lot in life, it may be more perception than reality.'' (Mr. Smulyan tried to take his company private earlier this summer in the face of its sagging stock price, down more than 40 percent since 2003.)
 But the radio companies are looking to fight back with innovations of their own.
 Clear Channel, for instance, signed a deal with BMW earlier this month to provide real-time free traffic updates to navigation systems in the automaker's new models. The company announced another deal to beam its radio signals to Cingular wireless phone users, offering them streaming and on-demand content as well. 
 ''We're going to go to all sorts of different distribution platforms and have an additional five, six or seven revenue streams that we didn't have even 24 months ago,'' Mark P. Mays, Clear Channel's chief executive, said in a recent interview.
 Clear Channel has already tried other things -- including stock buybacks, spinning off its outdoor advertising division and hiring a senior executive from AOL to oversee its online music efforts. It also adopted a much-watched plan to reduce on-air clutter by reducing the amount of advertising it broadcasts and running shorter spots. 
 Clear Channel managed to outperform the industry in its latest quarter, increasing revenue by 6 percent. 
 In aggressively moving online, radio companies are starting to offer new services with the sort of personalization that appeals to Web-savvy listeners. And they have put a greater emphasis on unique local programming -- news, sports, traffic, weather and talk -- that is tough for Web competitors to emulate. 
 Clear Channel already has one of the most visited music sites on the Web, and CBS Radio, formerly known as Infinity Broadcasting, has aggressively stepped up an Internet presence that was nearly nonexistent since last year. The company now streams more than 70 of its stations live, and it has started KYOURadio.com, a kind of a YouTube.com for listener-generated Podcasts. 
 The company has flipped formats at 27 of its stations since last year, pursuing growing areas like Spanish-language radio and using the popular Jack format, which has no on-air host and evokes the randomness of surfing for popular music. 
 In the first six months of the year, the operating income of CBS's radio business fell 17 percent. Joel Hollander, chief executive of CBS Radio, said in an interview that although the business was not growing as it once did, it generated a lot of cash for the CBS Corporation and required relatively little capital investment. 
 ''This is still a fabulous business,'' he said. 
 Mr. Smulyan said hehoped that HD Radio and radio stations' budding presence on the Web could help restore the luster of the business. 
 Peter L. Supino, an equity analyst at Wallace R. Weitz in Omaha, said the radio industry had awakened to the need to revamp the way it sold advertising and focus on improving its product, both online and off. 
 ''It seems like an industry that had a nice run in the 1990's that didn't have to worry -- it was just 'step on the gas and take more in sales every year,' '' said Mr. Supino, whose firm holds shares in Cumulus Media, the radio company.
 While radio companies are pinning their hopes on HD Radio, it is still at least three years from becoming a big enough business to have an impact on industry revenues. And John S. Rose, a partner in the media practice at the Boston Consulting Group, says the industry has not yet figured out ways to use the pristine sound quality of HD Radio to offer paid downloads of songs. 
 Amid so much uncertainty, it is little wonder that sessions at next week's National Association of Broadcasters radio convention in Dallas advertise things like: ''Learn to steal money from your local newspaper'' and ''Harnessing the power of blogging.'' It is also a sign of the times that the convention's opening reception does not have a broadcaster as a host. Instead, Google will be buying the drinks.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Traditional radio broadcasters now compete for an audience with streaming audio, iPods and satellite radio programming. (Photos by H. Armstrong Roberts/Corbis
inset, Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Tuning Out''While all age groups are listening to the radio less, 12-to-34-year olds have tuned out the most. On average, they listen 17 hours a week, down 3 hours from 1999.Change in time spent listening to radio spring 1999 to spring 2006AGE65+: -8.155-64: -6.850-54: -3.445-49: -5.735-44: -7.925-34: -13.218-24: -15.312-17: -15.0%(Source by Arbitron)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Shifting Tastes''Change in popularity of the top radio formats among listeners, fall 1998 to spring 2006SPANISH: +4.4URBAN: +1.9NEWS/TALK/INFORMATION: +0.9RELIGIOUS: +0.8CONTEMPORARY HITS: +0.6COUNTRY: 0.0OLDIES: -1.4ALTERNATIVE: -1.5ROCK: -1.9ADULT CONTEMPORARY: -2.8Change shown in percentage points
 based on listeners age 12 and older(Source by Arbitron)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); STREAMING MEDIA (78%); RADIO RATINGS & SHARES (78%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); PODCASTING (77%); MOBILE MEDIA (77%); SATELLITE RADIO (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%) Radio; Industry Profiles; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Radio; Radio

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); CBS CORP (65%); WALT DISNEY CO (64%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (84%) Clear Channel Communications Inc; Cbs Corp; Disney, Walt, Co; Susquehanna Broadcasting

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (65%); DIS (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (90%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (64%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (64%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (60%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (60%)

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (79%) Richard Siklos

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2006



312 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW -- With Azim H. Premji; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Outsourcing: It's Been Good To Him

BYLINE: By SARITHA RAI

 BODY:
Azim H. Premji, 61, is chairman of Wipro, India's third-largest outsourcing firm, with $2.39 billion in revenue last year. Mr. Premji, whose 81.4 percent ownership stake makes him India's richest man, is known for his austere style, whether providing visitors recycled drinking water at the company's Bangalore headquarters or flying himself and his top executives in economy class.
 He talked recently about outsourcing, competition and education. Following are excerpts:

Q. Has the furor over outsourcing cooled down?

A. The debate in the United States is significantly more balanced. But what is not getting adequate focus is that globalization is a two-way street. If the United States wants access to Chinese, Indian or Vietnamese markets, we must get access to theirs. U.S. protectionism is very subtle but it is very much there. 
 The important thing about outsourcing or global sourcing is that it becomes a very powerful tool to leverage talent, improve productivity and reduce work cycles. The West is not producing enough engineers. The United States will produce 75,000 engineers this year; they will produce more sports therapists than engineers. Germany, the great engineering power of Europe, will produce 35,000 engineers this year; they will produce more architects than engineers. Western companies want access to Indian talent, that is why they outsource, that is why they come to India to set up base. 

Q. Wipro began as a company making cooking oil and is now the third-largest outsourcing firm in India, but you still make cooking oil?

A. Being in the consumer business helps us groom talent in areas like marketing, finance and logistics. We can benchmark our outsourcing business to our consumer business and its best practices. Plus, our consumer business is independent, profitable, growing at 25 percent annual growth rates and is now of a respectable size.

Q. In 1977, India's socialist government sent I.B.M. packing. Was that the turning point for Wipro's technology business?

A. Their leaving gave us a chance to build the business from the start and we also learned to have a high degree of sensitivity to the customer. I.B.M. was not really bringing their best technologies to India. They were dumping old machines in the country that had been thrown away in the rest of the world 10 years before. Now they have a vastly changed attitude and they are back with a frenzy.

Q. You came into managing the company recently, after several executives had brought your outsourcing business to a level of success. Do you enjoy being so hands-on?

A. We have transitioned; we have collapsed the corporate office into the business office and de-layered our structure. We have four presidents who run the four businesses; each of these businesses is under a billion dollars in revenue. We continue to see it working well.

Q. Now global consulting firms like I.B.M. and Accenture are your competitors and they are investing billions of dollars in India. Is that a threat to your business model?

A. The fact that I.B.M. and Accenture are cannibalizing our model is a rubber-stamp endorsement of the global delivery model. It legitimizes our business from the customer point of view. But in terms of the quality processes, business model changes and fulfilling employee career goals, our domestic competitors and we are two to three years ahead of global consultancy firms.

Q. Is finding talent an increasing challenge for firms like Wipro?

A. Talent is in short supply everywhere. At Wipro, we are training nonengineers to be engineers. We hired 2,500 of them last year and coach them on the job. Thus, we are supplementing engineering talent on a significant scale.

Q. You dropped out of graduate school at Stanford to take charge of Wipro when your father died in 1966, but you have since made education your cause. How has it become so important to you?

A. Because education is the fulcrum for an equitable society. A girl child who is even a little bit educated is more conscious of family planning, health care and, in turn, her children's own education. Thus, we are killing three birds with one stone. I am particularly interested in primary education because the state of affairs in primary education in this country is a cause for concern.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Azim H. Premji 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (91%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ENGINEERING (87%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); BEST PRACTICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%) Labor

COMPANY: WIPRO LTD (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Wipro Ltd

TICKER: WIT (NYSE) (92%); WIPRO (NSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (92%)

PERSON: Azim Premji; Saritha Rai

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



313 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1755 words

HEADLINE: Tired of Trolls, A Feisty Chief Fights Back

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
OUR story today is about a patent fight, but before your eyes glaze over, let me reassure: it has a feisty protagonist, a really rich guy on the other side and a surprise ending.
 But that's not the only reason I'm telling this tale. Patent disputes have become part of the dark underbelly of American business. So-called patent trolls acquire patents, often from bankrupt companies -- and often overly broad patents that should never have been issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office in the first place. Instead of using them to build a commercial product, they extract licensing fees from companies that are making and selling real products. As The New Jersey Law Journal put it not long ago, ''They exist solely to exact a tax.''
The deck is stacked against target companies, even when their product is not infringing. Patent litigation is expensive, and the judicial system tends to be sympathetic to the patent holder. So companies usually come to the obvious conclusion: it makes more sense to pay than to fight. For its part, the patent troll often prices the licensing fee below the cost of litigation, to encourage such behavior. 
 But a few years ago, one chief executive decided that enough was enough. He felt strongly that patent trolls were hurting the ability of small businesses like his to grow and prosper. And believing that his company was not infringing on the patent in question, he chose to fight.
 What happened then? Well, that's the story.
 OUR feisty protagonist is Donald R. Katz, the chief executive of Audible.com, based in Wayne, N.J. Audible, which Mr. Katz founded in 1996, is the company that allows you to download books to your iPod so you can listen to them on your morning commute. Before starting Audible, Mr. Katz was a highly regarded author; he and I first crossed paths in the late 1980's, when he wrote several articles for New England Monthly, where I was an editor. (Audible records podcasts for The New York Times's Op-Ed columnists, and also markets an audio digest of The Times.) 
 Writers are not usually business-savvy, but Mr. Katz was an exception. In the early days, the company invented a device that allowed people to listen to a downloaded Audible book. (Thanks to the ubiquitous iPod, the device is now history.) The company went public in 1999, but Mr. Katz never lost his head during the technology bubble, and Audible survived the bust.
 Today, Audible employs about 170 people and is growing at a healthy clip. It is exactly the kind of small business that generates most of this country's job growth.
 Audible had its first brush with a patent troll in 2000.
 ''Their patent involved a completely different business model from ours,'' Mr. Katz recalled. But fearing that a protracted battle would damage the young company, Audible decided to settle. ''We gave them stock and cash,'' Mr. Katz said. ''It just killed me.'' 
 Three years later, a company called Digeo claimed that Audible was infringing on Patent No. 5,734,823, which it had recently bought in a bankruptcy proceeding. As it happens, Mr. Katz and Audible's patent lawyer, Steven B. Kelber, had already seen the '823, because the previous owner had also claimed that Audible was infringing. Mr. Katz and Mr. Kelber turned the company away, saying that Audible didn't infringe.
 They said the same thing to Digeo. But Digeo was not so easily deterred. The company markets Moxi, a digital video recorder that competes against Motorola and Scientific-Atlanta, though not with much success. Digeo has also worked to extract licensing fees for the '823. The page on its Web site titled ''Intellectual Property'' specifically singles out the '823 as a patent ''vital to many applications'' that is ''available for license.''
 ''Available,'' indeed. On at least two other occasions, Digeo brought lawsuits when companies declined to pay licensing fees, including one against PalmSource. Both suits were quickly settled. In most patent disputes, though, there is no need for a lawsuit to be filed; as Mr. Katz put it, ''There is an underground economy of settlements because of expediency.'' Byron E. Springer, Digeo's general counsel, told me that about 10 other companies had licensed the '823, though I've also heard that the number is higher than that.
 Oh, and one other thing. Digeo has the deepest pockets imaginable. It is backed primarily by Vulcan Inc., which is Paul G. Allen's investment vehicle. Mr. Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft, is the third-richest man in the country, after Bill Gates and Warren E. Buffett. He is also the chairman of Digeo's board.
 Of all the things about the patent dispute that drove Mr. Katz crazy, Mr. Allen's involvement probably topped the list. He once wrote a magazine story about Mr. Allen, and he had an idealized view of the Microsoft co-founder as ''someone who actually invented something,'' and who should, therefore, be sympathetic to other innovators.
 ''It is hard enough to build a small public company into a large one without people with leadership positions in the business community putting up impediments that shouldn't have to be,'' Mr. Katz said.
 Although Digeo was asking for only $400,000, Audible refused to pay. So, in 2005, Digeo sued. Mr. Katz went to the Audible board and explained that it was undoubtedly going to cost more to fight the suit than to pay the fee, but he felt that the company had to show that it wasn't going to roll over. The board agreed.
 He also sent Mr. Allen an e-mail message. ''We patented many of the things we invented and respect patents,'' he wrote, ''but the use of a purchased patent (which we've known about for years) that so clearly describes something far from what we do -- and using it in a way that has nothing to do with protecting your core business -- is not, to me, respectful of any moral underpinning of the ethos of business or the basic precept of fair dealing.'' Mr. Allen never responded. (A spokesman for Mr. Allen referred all questions to Digeo.) 
 I should point out here that Digeo strongly objects to being labeled a patent troll. According to a company spokeswoman, the company uses the '823 in Moxi and is merely trying to protect its intellectual property. Jim Blaisdell, the executive who manages the patent, said, ''It is not patent trolling when you have a real business to protect.'' But it is difficult to see how trying to extract $400,000 from a company that sells digitized audio books is ''protecting'' Digeo's struggling DVR business. 
 Indeed, as Audible saw it, the '823 simply didn't apply to the company's technology. The original inventors had in mind a system, aimed mainly at college students who needed cheaper textbooks, that would allow them to come to a kiosk with a hand-held device and download a textbook into the device. But the patent was also written very broadly -- that is part of the game in modern patent applications -- and it said next to nothing about the technical details of how it would accomplish what it was supposed to do.
 ''For a patent to be valid,'' Mr. Kelber said, ''you have to teach how to practice everything you claim. There is no teaching in this patent.'' Donovan Steve White, a consultant who served as Audible's technical expert, said: ''It has pictures and artists' renderings of what the device looks like. But that is where it ceases. How you are supposed to make it work -- it is completely mute on that point.'' 
 According to Josh Lerner, a Harvard Business School professor and the co-author of ''Innovation and Its Discontents,'' a tough-minded book about patents, the issuance of patents like the '823 has become an ever bigger problem in recent years. He attributes that in part to overworked patent examiners -- who also work for the one part of the federal government that earns its keep through the fees it collects, and so have every incentive to grant patents. Gamesmanship on the part of patent applicants has also become an increasing problem, as has the court system itself, which has ''lowered the barriers'' and ''made patents easier to get,'' Mr. Lerner said. (A spokeswoman for the patent office strongly denied that patents are issued inappropriately.) 
 After a year of legal wrangling, Digeo dropped its price. A clearly frustrated Mr. Blaisdell wrote an astonishing e-mail message in May 2006 to Audible's internal lawyers, saying he was ''perplexed as to why Audible has not taken Digeo up on its offer to settle for $300K.'' After all, he pointed out, that was far less than the ''high legal fees'' Audible was paying. 
 He added, ''Surely you understand that the prospect of convincing a Jury that Audible doesn't infringe or that the Patent is invalid is an expensive one.'' Digeo may or may not be a patent troll, but rarely has the economics of patent trolling been so baldly stated.
 By then, though, the endgame was in sight -- which brings me to the surprise ending. As it turns out, Digeo did not have the complete ownership of the patent that it thought it had. Documents that had been turned over to Digeo when it bought the patent showed that Edward Chang, one of the four co-inventors, had died, and that another -- his brother -- had assigned the rights to the patent to the company that later sold the '823 to Digeo.
 Edward Chang, however, was very much alive, and his brother had never assigned the rights to anyone. The documents had been forged -- though it's not yet known by whom. The forgery was discovered by Mr. Kelber, the Audible lawyer. Audible then went to Mr. Chang and got him to sell it a license for $70,000. Last month, when this new evidence was presented, a judge ruled that Digeo was entitled to no monetary damages from Audible. 
 Still, the case is not dead. Digeo has gone back to the bankruptcy court to see if it can get full ownership of the patent. Without it, the company won't be able to sue anybody for infringing on the '823. But in the unlikely event that the bankruptcy court rules in its favor, it has every intention of continuing its pursuit of Audible, said Mr. Springer, Digeo's general counsel. 
 And Mr. Katz? You'd think he'd be happy, but he's not. Not yet, anyway. Patent law permits the winning party to have its legal fees paid by the losing party in ''exceptional cases.'' Audible's legal fees are now well over $1 million, but the judge declined to force Digeo to pay them. Audible plans to appeal that part of the ruling.
 ''This was a complete misuse of the American legal system,'' Mr. Katz said. ''I want our money back.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald R. Katz

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (94%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (92%); PATENT LAW (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); WRITERS (89%); LITERATURE (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); PODCASTING (68%); MOBILE MEDIA (68%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (68%); COUNTERFEITING (59%) Books and Literature; Suits and Litigation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Forgery; Inventions and Patents; Computers and the Internet; Legal Profession; Books and Literature

COMPANY: AUDIBLE INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (57%) Audible.com; Digeo (Co)

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%)

PERSON: Joe Nocera; Donald R Katz

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



314 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: How Many Coupons for the Yacht?

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
IF you believe magazines are leading indicators of where the economy is heading, things are not looking good. 
 Publications including Good Housekeeping, ShopSmart and Smart Money devote scores of pages in their current issues to how to save.
For example, in its cover article, Smart Money says medical bills can be negotiated.
 While only 10 percent of Americans try to negotiate, ''more than 60 percent of those who do get discounts,'' Anne Kadet writes. ''There's no need to play hardball. When it comes to procedures that aren't covered, just let the doc know you're the one who's paying and you only want what's necessary.'' Offering to pay immediately can often help seal the discount. 
 When it comes to Internet and cable bills, ''find out what competitors are offering new customers, then call your current provider's cancellation department,'' Ms. Kadet writes. ''Say you'd like to stay, but can't justify the cost when competing rates are so much lower.'' Don't be surprised if they offer a discount immediately.
 Request and you just may receive, is also the advice offered by ShopSmart, a new publication from Consumer Reports. For example, if the consumer electronics product you want ''isn't available, ask for a free upgrade.''
 ''A salesperson who knows that you're ready to buy may be willing to sell you a pricier model for the same price to nab the sale,'' the magazine says.
 Good Housekeeping's advice requires a bit more work. The magazine recommends splitting up shopping trips; it not only gives the conventional advice to cherry-pick the best prices at the various supermarkets in the area, but it also suggests buying basics like detergent at ''dollar stores.''
 ''One recent example, Liquid Tide laundry detergent in the 100-ounce bottle was selling for $6.50 at Family Dollar and $9.85 at a nearby grocery store,'' Amy Gunderson writes.
 The nice thing about all these ideas is that you can put them into practice even if the economy does not slow down. 
 COUPONS TO GO -- Fewer than 1 percent of all those coupons that tumble out of the Sunday paper are ever redeemed.
 But Fortune Small Business reports that a Los Angeles company, ScanAps, plans to change that with a portable U.S.B. scanner ''that fits on a keychain and lets shoppers scan paper-coupon bar codes at home and download them at the store.'' In testing, shoppers who had the device used 26 percent more coupons and spent 8 percent more money. 
 ON THE OTHER HAND -- Not everyone is frugal. Lavish, pull-out-the-stops weddings are a growing phenomenon, reports Modern Bride, adding that the trend is fueled by everything from a solid economy and the fact that people are marrying later, to attempts at emulating celebrity weddings and a desire to outdo the weddings of friends.
 ''Although the average wedding tag is around $26,000, in certain parts of the country, such as New York City and Los Angeles, the cost is closer to $40,000,'' Lambeth Hochwald writes. Many couples ''spend six figures to create the event of their dreams.''
 Or substantially more. One couple profiled shelled out $150,000 on just their wedding on Mackinac Island in Michigan, and that price tag did not include the $15,000 spent on the rehearsal dinner, another $15,000 on the honeymoon, and the $500 spent to announce the wedding on NPR.
 Said the bride: ''All of my friends say they still talk about our wedding.'' At those prices, we should hope so.
 FINAL TAKE -- From the timing-is-everything department: ShowBoats International has an article about what briefly earlier this month became the most famous luxury boat: the Maltese Falcon, ''billed as the largest private sailing yacht in the world'' and owned by the venture capitalist Thomas J. Perkins. 
 Mr. Perkins quit the Hewlett-Packard board, objecting to the way an investigation into news leaks concerning the company was handled. When asked to comment, a representative said Mr. Perkins was in the Mediterranean on his new boat and did not wish to be disturbed. Given the uproar his resignation caused, H. P. executives probably wish he had left on his trip even sooner. PAUL B. BROWN


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SCANNERS (83%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (82%); RETAIL COUPONS (78%); ETHICS (77%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (74%); CABLE INDUSTRY (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (65%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (63%) Medicine and Health; Coupons; Computers and the Internet; Television; Electronics; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Medicine and Health; Scanning Devices; Weddings and Engagements; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Boards of Directors; Medicine and Health; Ethics; Boards of Directors

ORGANIZATION: Smart Money (Magazine); Shopsmart (Magazine); Consumers Union; Modern Bride (Magazine); Hewlett-Packard Co; ShwoBoats International (Magazine); Fortune Small Business (Magazine); ScanAps (Co)

PERSON: Anne Kadet; Amy Gunderson; Lambeth Hochwald; Thomas J Perkins; Paul B Brown

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



315 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SHORT CUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: No Longer Avoiding That Talk About the Inevitable 

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND. 
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
JOSHUA SLOCUM, executive director of the Funeral Consumers Alliance, often says, ''It's time to have death at the dinner table.'' 
 I have had some dinner parties that felt like a slow death. But what Mr. Slocum means is being able to talk about planning a funeral just as we talk about, say, that coming class reunion.
''There's some socially outmoded idea that it's not a polite topic of conversation,'' Mr. Slocum said. 
 We were having this conversation because I wanted to know how children -- meaning middle-aged children like me and my sisters -- bring up the topic of what kind of funeral parents want when that (hopefully) far-off time comes. 
 The first step, and perhaps the most difficult, is to actually raise the topic.
 ''Humor works 75 percent of the time,'' he said. Then he told me a cremation joke.
 I decided that although my parents enjoy a hearty laugh as much as anyone, that probably was not the best approach.
 According to a poll commissioned two years ago by the National Funeral Directors Association, 57 percent of Americans have preplanned their own funeral or intend to. 
 Close to a year ago, I e-mailed my father, asking if he had ever thought about the issue. (I find that in my family heavy issues are sometimes handled best over the Internet.)
 He said he and my mother planned on being immortal.
 I spoke to my mother. She said it was really up to us, because she believed funerals were for the living. Then she told me about some things she would prefer not to have at her funeral.
 ''See, we wouldn't have known that,'' I told her. The tone of the conversation became slightly tense. I changed the topic.
 Recently, I decided to bypass the computer altogether and picked up the phone to call my father.
 I knew that my parents wanted to be cremated, as my grandmother had been. Not surprisingly, because he is uber-organized, my father had already bought and paid for the plots, urns, black granite markers and endowment care for the two sites -- about $2,835 for both in 1999 dollars.
 ''It's about as budget as you can get,'' my father said.
 That is true: the median cost of a funeral with cremation is $3,500, according to the National Funeral Directors Association, while the median price of a regular funeral is $6,500.
 That includes a coffin, the services of the funeral director and embalming, but not the opening and closing of the burial site, since that varies so widely by state, said Celine Clark, a spokeswoman for the association.
 A word of warning. Paying for cemetery plots is one thing that makes good sense, especially if your family wants to be buried together and space is at a premium. And preplanning a service with a funeral home -- the transportation, the music, the church or synagogue, the flowers -- can be a good idea. But prepaying for the service is not always the best idea.
 Laws vary by state about what happens if you prepay and the funeral home goes out of business, so it is important to check your protection.
 ''Our advice to consumers if you prepay is to go over all available options,'' Ms. Clark said. Are you locked into a price or does it vary with inflation? Are the services portable if you move to another state?
 A better option, if a parent is worried that a funeral may be a financial burden on offspring, is to put the money in a trust.
 But back to me and my parents.
 The question of who the funeral is for, those who have died or those left behind, is an ancient one, said Rabbi Jeffrey Sirkman of Larchmont Temple in Westchester County, New York.
 ''In the book of Genesis, when Abraham buries his wife, Sarah, the rabbis of old ask, 'Is the eulogy for the living or the dead?' And we say, 'You're right and you're right.' ''
 My parents said it was up to us, their daughters, to decide what kind of funeral or memorial service we wanted to give them.
 But while talking about it, I found out that my father had asked cemetery officials to ensure that he has a military honor guard at his burial for his service in World War II and the Korean War. 
 And I learned that neither he nor my mother wanted anyone, including rabbis, to officiate at a service. They would prefer that close friends share their memories.
 ''But I guess I would add a proviso that anything that would comfort the survivors would be O.K.,'' my father told me. ''I wouldn't turn over in my grave.''
 The trouble is, Mr. Slocum said, that ''many parents assume they know what their kids want, like an open casket, but they never mentioned it to their kids.''
 ''They say, 'It's all taken care of, honey,' but that doesn't mean a darn thing,'' he added. ''What's been taken care of? Kids usually want to honor their parents, and that can lead to a lot of guilt -- I don't know what Mom would want.''
 My friend Carol thinks it is a great idea to discuss all this when your parents are still healthy. Her mother died five years ago from a recurrence of cancer, and ''when the end was near, my job was to be cheerleader-in-chief,'' she said. ''In the last three months, I could not say, 'Let's talk about the end.' ''
 Sometimes that is the role of the clergy. Rabbi Sirkman said that when attending to the terminally ill or the elderly, he may say, '' 'Is there anything you would like me to say in tribute to you when we say our good-byes?' I try to phrase the question in such a way to bring up options.''
 Carol said she felt that the service had done her mother proud, but, ''Of course you feel you would have liked to have known more.'' On the other hand, she said, ''If it had been important to her, I think she would have led me to that discussion.''
 The best thing to do after making decisions about your burial and funeral is to write them down. The Funeral Consumers Alliance provides a booklet through its Web site (www.funerals.org) enticingly called ''Before I Go, You Should Know.'' 
 It is a pamphlet in which you can write phone numbers, vital statistics, where funeral plans are on file and whether or not you want, for example, embalming, viewing, a private family service or a graveside service only. 
 You can write in what you want and do not want at your funeral/memorial service and your options of a coffin (check one: plain pine box, buy the best, buy the cheapest, wood, metal, fiberglass, use a rental casket, shroud only.)
 The details go on. Mr. Slocum suggests that the information be kept handy, not in a safe deposit box, where it will probably be seen only after the burial.
 ''If your kids aren't sure, the default will be the most elaborate and the most expensive,'' he warned. ''Most cave into real or perceived social pressures.''
 I guess I should not feel too bad about the difficulty of discussing the issue. It turns out that even those who deal with death every day may not always prepare their own families.
 Jack Hogan, funeral director of Quinn-Fogarty Funeral Home in Flushing, Queens, said his father, who was also a funeral director, did not make any preparations.
 ''I remember when it came time to select a casket, my mother was lost,'' he said. ''I've always found it ironic.''
 The only directive his father gave, Mr. Hogan said, was that ''anyone who came to the funeral should be invited out to eat and drink all they can, and everyone was.''
 ''That was quite a bill at the restaurant,'' he said.
 Mr. Hogan, on the other hand, has his arrangements clearly mapped out.
 ''I want to have a bagpiper,'' he said. ''And I want to make sure everyone is taken out to lunch.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Danwei Chu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNERAL HOMES & SERVICES (90%); FUNERAL INDUSTRY (89%); CEMETERIES (84%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FAMILY (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%) Funerals; Families and Family Life; Aged

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FUNERAL DIRECTORS ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: Alina Tugend

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



316 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1644 words

HEADLINE: Crop Rotation In the Grain Belt 

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, Kan. 

 BODY:
Once the driving force behind transforming the United States into the ''breadbasket of the world,'' wheat is being steadily replaced by corn as the crop of choice for American farmers.
 Genetic modifications to corn seeds, the growing demand for corn-based ethanol as a fuel blend and more favorable farm subsidies are leading farmers to plant corn in places where wheat long dominated. In Kansas, known for a century as the Wheat State, corn production quietly pulled ahead of wheat in 2000, with Kansas producing 23 percent more corn than wheat last year.
This year's drought-ravaged crop is expected to be the second-smallest harvest for American farmers since 1978. It follows a year in which American farmers planted the fewest acres of wheat since 1972. And while corn acreage nationwide passed wheat about a decade ago, its footprint and that of soybeans are spreading across a greater swath of the Midwest, farther north and west into the Dakotas and central Minnesota -- traditional wheat country, where growing corn and soybeans was once almost unthinkable. 
 ''It is getting harder and harder for American farmers to say they feed the world,'' said Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, an environmental research group based in Washington. ''Instead, they feed S.U.V.'s.'' 
 The decline of wheat and the broad relandscaping of America's farmland have come about for several reasons. Better seed technology has given corn and soybeans a widening edge over wheat, and more favorable subsidies have encouraged farmers to abandon wheat. Changing consumer tastes and food packaging advancements have slowed American wheat demand. 
 But the growing biofuels industry is creating the strongest drag on wheat lately, as corn and soybeans are increasingly favored for their use in ethanol and biodiesel.
 The spread of corn and soybeans at the expense of wheat, while not expected to significantly affect food prices, could nevertheless put more pressure on scarce water supplies, since both crops are more water- and energy-intensive than wheat. 
 But the water scarcity has not deterred John Lightner, a 58-year-old farmer in Garden City, Kan., in the heart of the Wheat Belt that stretches through the arid, wind-swept Plains states. Mr. Lightner, who is planting more corn these days, said he was lured by the promise of earning higher profits and lately, a chance to ride the corn-fueled ethanol wave that is sweeping across the Midwest. 
 ''The return on wheat is just not that great, and with corn, well, there is more potential,'' Mr. Lightner said as he surveyed his 650 acres of cornfields just weeks before harvest. He began shifting from wheat to corn 15 years ago. Then, this year he rededicated his farmland to corn by investing in a 55-million-gallon ethanol plant being built in town, which, he said, will need all the corn it can get. 
 Wheat has long been associated with the United States' standing as the breadbasket of the world for its ability to feed the world through food shipments. American presidents used wheat to support Allied troops in both world wars and tried to wield it as a diplomatic weapon against the Soviet Union. Huge wheat surpluses regularly helped the United States balance its trade deficits. 
 In the early 1970's American farmers controlled half of the world's wheat exports, but this year the United States will account for just 22 percent, according to U.S. Wheat Associates, an export trade group. 
 Driving the shift away from wheat have been advances in hybrid and genetically modified seeds for other crops. Major companies like Monsanto have been spending millions of dollars developing improved forms of corn, soybeans and cotton -- not wheat -- and those investments are paying off handsomely. Seeds engineered to resist drought and insects have yielded huge gains and have helped produce record corn harvests the last three years. 
 The more-resistant seeds have made it possible for farmers in colder climates with shorter growing seasons to produce successful corn harvests. North Dakota, which for decades was the second-biggest producer of wheat after Kansas, has lost 1.69 million wheat acres since 2000, a 16 percent decline. Corn acres in the state, meanwhile, have shot up by 670,000, or 62 percent.
 In Kansas, wheat acreage is down 20 percent from 1980, though it has been fairly stable statewide the last four years. But without genetic modification, wheat is lagging behind.
 American corn yields rose by 30 percent from 1995 to 2005, while wheat yields grew by only 17 percent. In recent years corn has pulled further ahead, with an annual growth rate in yield that is four times that of wheat. 
 So far, public resistance to genetically engineered wheat has been strong. Buyers in Europe and Japan said they would refuse American wheat if it was genetically modified. American farmers are divided on the issue. Monsanto dropped an effort to produce the world's first genetically engineered wheat two years ago, yielding to the concerns of farmers that the crop would endanger exports. The wheat was genetically modified to be resistant to Monsanto's Roundup herbicide, which would have allowed farmers to spray their fields to kill weeds while not damaging the crop. 
 The company has said it is not giving up on wheat research. But the genetic engineering of corn, cotton and soybean crops is less controversial because those crops are used primarily in animal feed, clothing and food oils, while wheat is more likely to be used directly in food. 
 Syngenta, a Monsanto competitor, said it was continuing to develop a genetically engineered wheat that was resistant to fusarium, a fungus that damages crops and produces dangerous toxins. The crop could be ready for the market by early next decade but the company has not decided whether to put it on a commercial path, said Anne Burt, a Syngenta spokeswoman. 
 To a lesser extent, the structure of the federal farm program has also signaled to farmers that growing corn and soybeans is a better economic bet than wheat. The federal government rewards high corn production by guaranteeing growers the repayment of loans that become deficient when prices fall below the government loan rate of $1.95 a bushel. Corn prices that fell below $2 a bushel in recent years led to record payments to farmers: $4.6 billion last year and $2.9 billion in 2004. Wheat prices have generally averaged $3 a bushel, staying above the $2.75-a-bushel government floor. 
 Corn's higher yields and better subsidy support have meant that it is much more economically attractive to grow an acre of corn than wheat on average, government statistics show. But wheat subsidies have not been adjusted much to account for the larger yields farmers obtain with corn through better seed technology. 
 Tighter wheat supplies could further lift wheat prices, which have hovered above $4 a bushel in recent months, but most experts do not expect food prices to rise much as a result of the switch to biofuels crops.
 The cost of wheat is less than 10 percent of the total cost of products like bread and cereal. 
 The rub is in the trade-off over resources. While it takes more energy to produce a bushel of wheat than corn, an acre of corn uses a far larger overall basket of resources: energy, fertilizer and water.
 Recent high prices for wheat, driven by drought in some of the world's prime wheat-growing regions, may prompt some American farmers to plant more wheat acres this fall. But that is not likely to reverse wheat's decline, analysts say. 
 Neither will diplomacy. For decades, America's dominance of grains, especially wheat, was viewed as a potential diplomatic weapon, from the time President Gerald Ford tried to trade grain for discounted oil from the Soviet Union to President Jimmy Carter's grain embargo against Moscow in 1980. 
 And other countries are picking up the slack. Major competitors -- including Europe, Australia, Argentina and Black Sea countries like Ukraine -- have increased their wheat output. America's traditional customers like China are also growing more wheat for their own consumption, limiting the need for imports. 
 The high-protein Atkins diet that symbolized the low-carbohydrates fad helped reduce per-person flour consumption by 9 percent from 1997 to 2004, said Marcia Scheideman, president of the Wheat Foods Council in Washington.
 Over all, the incentives to grow corn and soybeans have led farmers to try to grow corn against all odds, even as the economics have gotten tougher with higher costs of fertilizer and fuel for irrigation.
 Stung by high costs to pump water, Larry Kepley, a farmer in Ulysses, west of Garden City, decided a few years ago to go back to dry-land farming, similar to what his great-grandfather did in 1888 when he first arrived in the area. The family had been irrigating since 1941. 
 Dry-land farming meant sticking with wheat. Still, wanting to experiment with corn, he planted 50 acres of dry-land corn last fall, figuring he needed 60 bushels an acre to break even. He got 17 bushels an acre. ''It was an utter failure,'' he said. 
 Mr. Lightner, the Garden City farmer, said he was more fortunate to have shallower water wells that made irrigation less costly than on Mr. Kepley's farmland.
 But the plastic tubes that line his rows of corn, delivering water into the soil every 60 inches, are the real key, he said. The water is pumped by natural gas and costs Mr. Lightner $50 to $120 an acre. 
 With higher fuel costs making his corn crop prohibitively more expensive last year, he planted 300 more acres of wheat, which he grudgingly admires as a crop with ''nine lives.'' But this time, the wheat failed him. 
 ''The drought got it and then the hail came through, so I don't have to worry about it anymore,'' Mr. Lightner said. ''For now, I'll stick with corn.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''The return on wheat is just not that great, and with corn, well, there is more potential,'' said John Lightner, who has 650 acres of corn. (Photo by Larry W. Smith/The New York Times)(pg. C9)
Top, Larry Kepley walks through his wheat farm in Ulysses, Kan. Above, John Lightner examines his corn crop. (Photographs by Larry W. Smith/The New York Times)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Where's the Wheat?''Farmers have been replacing wheat with more lucrative crops like corn and soybeans.PlantedPercentage change, 1986-2006KansasWHEAT: - 18%CORN: +134SOYBEANS: + 68NebraskaWHEAT: -22%CORN: +14SOYBEANS: +94South DakotaWHEAT: -18%CORN: +33SOYBEANS: +181North DakotaWHEAT: -12%CORN: +99SOYBEANS: +700ProductionPercentage change, 1986-2006KansasWHEAT: -11%CORN: +117SOYBEANS: +60NebraskaWHEAT: -26%CORN: +39SOYBEANS: +132South DakotaWHEAT: -13%CORN: +65SOYBEANS: +168North DakotaWHEAT: -19%CORN: +222SOYBEANS: +552(Sources by AgResources
Department of Agriculture)(pg. C1)Graph: ''No Longer the Breadbasket''As farmers have switched from wheat to other crops, particularly corn, the United States share of worldwide exports of wheat has declined.Graph tracks in millions number of acres of planted Wheat, Corn, and Soybeans since 1975.Graph tracks in billion bushels number of Wheat, Corn, and Soybeans produced since 1975.Graph tracks Wheat exports for the U.S. and the rest of the world since 1975.(Sources by AgResources
Department of Agriculture
 U.S. Wheat Associates)(pg. C9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); ETHANOL (90%); BIOMASS (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); DROUGHT (89%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (78%); WHEAT MARKETS (78%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (77%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (70%); FOOD PRICES (69%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (68%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (66%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (63%); FOOD PACKAGING (63%) Grain; Production; Soybeans; Biofuels; Genetics and Heredity; Ethanol; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Drought; Weather; Grain

ORGANIZATION: US WHEAT ASSOCIATES (59%)

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



317 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Dispute Over China's Auto Tariffs 

BYLINE: By The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
The United States, the European Union and Canada said Friday that they planned to ask the World Trade Organization at a meeting on Sept. 28 to set up a panel to investigate whether China has unfairly raised tariffs on imported auto parts. 
 If the panel is actually requested, it would be the first time that one had been requested against China since it joined the W.T.O. in 2001. But by announcing their plans now, trade negotiators have left nearly two weeks to try to reach a deal.
The United States sought consultations with China under the W.T.O. in 2004 to resolve a disagreement over China's rebates on value-added taxes but had not previously announced plans to request a W.T.O. panel.
 China has begun assessing a 25 percent tariff on imported vehicles, instead of a 10 percent tariff on imported auto parts, if automakers bring too many parts of a vehicle into the country. The rule has imposed high costs on European manufacturers like DaimlerChrysler, which said Friday that it had not found local suppliers for 40 percent of the value of the Mercedes E-class sedans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TARIFFS & DUTIES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); SEDANS (70%); VALUE ADDED TAX (53%) Automobiles; International Trade and World Market; Customs (Tariff)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) European Union; World Trade Organization

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (57%) CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%) China; Europe; Canada

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



318 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Notables Urge India to End 145-Year Ban On Gay Sex

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
A British-era relic is facing a new challenge in India, as a growing citizens' movement rallies against a 145-year-old law still embedded in the Indian penal code that bans gay sex. 
 On Saturday an open letter to the government will be officially unveiled, calling for the repeal of what is known by its official moniker, Section 377, which makes ''carnal intercourse against the order of nature with man, woman or animal'' punishable by 10 years in prison.
The letter is signed by an eclectic list of Indian writers, filmmakers, lawyers and other luminaries, including the author Vikram Seth, the actress Soha Ali Khan and a former attorney general of the Hindu-nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party-led government, Soli Sorabjee. 
 ''In independent India, as earlier, this archaic and brutal law has served no good purpose,'' the letter argues. ''It has been used to systematically persecute, blackmail, arrest and terrorize sexual minorities. It has spawned public intolerance and abuse, forcing tens of millions of gay and bisexual men and women to live in fear and secrecy, at tragic cost to themselves and their families.'' 
 The letter comes less than two months after a similar plea from the government AIDS agency. In an affidavit to the Delhi High Court calling for a repeal of the law, the National AIDS Control Agency argued in late July that Section 377 poses a public health risk by driving gay men underground and impeding efforts to prevent the spread of AIDS.
 With more than five million cases of H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, India ranks either first or second, depending on who is measuring, among countries with the largest number of infected people. 
 The statute is being challenged under a lawsuit brought in 2001 by a gay-rights advocacy group called the Naz Foundation, which argued that the law contravenes rights enshrined in the Indian Constitution, including equality, privacy and freedom of expression. 
 The case was initially thrown out by the Delhi High Court on the grounds that the foundation did not suffer as a result of the law and so had no legal standing to sue. The Supreme Court of India earlier this year tossed the case back, instructing the Delhi court to review the case on its merits. The next hearing is scheduled for Oct. 4. 
 The campaign to repeal Section 377 reflects a confluence of broad changes sweeping this country, from health concerns and urbanization in India to a growing awareness about India's place in the world. A preface to the open letter, written by Amartya Sen, the Nobel laureate and economist who is now a professor at Harvard, calls the law, codified in 1861, ''a colonial-era monstrosity.'' 
 ''That, as it happens, was the year in which the American Civil War began, which would ultimately abolish the unfreedom of slavery in America,'' he wrote. ''Today, 145 years later, we surely have urgent reason to abolish in India, with our commitment to democracy and human rights, the unfreedom of arbitrary and unjust criminalization.''
 The law is today most often used to prosecute cases of child sexual abuse, and its backers warn that its repeal could jeopardize efforts to arrest offenders. The office of the solicitor general of India declined to comment on the law, on the grounds that it is under litigation. 
 Section 377 is rarely now used to prosecute gay adults engaged in consensual sex, lawyers and activists say, but it remains a whip with which to threaten, blackmail and jail suspected gay men and lesbians where they gather -- in parks, bars and even, on occasion, on the Internet. Strictly speaking, the statute makes it illegal to distribute condoms to gay men or in Indian prisons. 
 As with most things in this country, whatever generalizations one can draw about attitudes towards homosexuality, its opposite is also just as likely to be true. 
 And yet, stigma and scorn prevail. Indian newspapers earlier this year, for instance, carried the story of a woman who attempted suicide after being forcibly separated from her lover, whom she said she had married in a Hindu temple. 
 In western Vadodara, also this year, the police filed kidnapping charges against a woman for running off with another woman; the two told local authorities, according to local news media reports, that they wanted to live together. 
 In June came news that the scion of a former royal family had been disinherited after saying he was gay.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); CRIMINAL LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); WRITERS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); STANDING TO SUE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); VIRUSES (64%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (62%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (51%); CIVIL WAR (50%) Homosexuality; Sex; Law and Legislation; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome

PERSON: Somini Sengupta

GEOGRAPHIC: DELHI, INDIA (88%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



319 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 633 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Won't Abandon Fight In Anbar, Commander Says

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
The American military in Iraq will not abandon the fight against insurgents in Sunni-dominated Anbar Province despite a shift of troops toward Baghdad for a major operation to stifle sectarian violence in the capital, the second-ranking commander in Iraq said Friday.
 The commander, Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, of the Army, describing the Baghdad security mission as ''our main effort,'' said he had ordered reinforcements to the capital from other parts of Iraq. 
''Armies that don't weight the main effort really don't ever have a main effort,'' General Chiarelli told Pentagon reporters via videolink from his headquarters outside Baghdad. ''And that's not the case with this force.''
 Even so, General Chiarelli stressed that the American military has not forsaken Anbar Province, a Sunni area stretching from west of the capital to the Syrian border that has been a haven for homegrown insurgents and foreign terrorists.
 ''We are not looking to walk away from that province. That is just flat wrong,'' said General Chiarelli, who is commander of day-to-day military operations in Iraq. ''We are committed to the people of Al Anbar and will remain committed to the people of Al Anbar and do everything possible to make their life better.''
 General Chiarelli spoke at the end of a week in which it was revealed that a classified Marine Corps intelligence report on Anbar Province said security there would continue to deteriorate absent an infusion of money and an additional division's worth of troops. 
 After the report's contents were disclosed, the senior Marine Corps commander in Iraq, Maj. Gen. Richard C. Zilmer, said his force levels ''are about right'' for a mission that he described as primarily training Iraqi troops to take over the security effort.
 General Chiarelli said the intelligence report's assessments of the problems in Anbar were ''right on target.'' But he insisted that more troops would not guarantee success.
 ''I don't believe there is any military strategy alone, any kinetic operations that we can run alone, that will create the conditions for victory which we must have,'' General Chiarelli said. ''The real heart'' of the intelligence report, he added, was ''that there are economic and political conditions that have to improve out at Al Anbar, as they do everywhere in Iraq, for us to be successful.''
 General Chiarelli also sought to erase any perception that a heightened emphasis on training Iraqi security forces to take over the mission from Americans meant that United States military forces had abandoned the goal of defeating the insurgency.
 ''We are fighting to win,'' he said. ''But we understand that winning is a combination of a whole bunch of things in this insurgency we're fighting, and as I've indicated time and time again, this is different than any other fight I believe the United States of America has ever found itself in.''
 Iraq is not in a civil war, General Chiarelli said, but the threat has shifted from terrorist and insurgent violence to battling bombings and murders driven by sectarian tensions -- although at times it is difficult to separate the motivation behind any single attack, he added.
 As for whether Iraq is in a civil war, he said, ''I state emphatically I do not believe it is, but I do believe sectarian violence is something we've got to get a handle on.''
 The general recounted conversations with local Iraqi officials across the country who told him the best route to lowering the level of violence is, ''Find jobs for the angry young men.''
 To achieve economic progress, he said, ''We need help, and we've got commitment from the Iraqi government for help. And as quick as we can get that help out there to start working those economic conditions, I think that that is, in fact, a strategy for victory.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%) United States Armament and Defense; Sunni Muslims; Shiite Muslims

PERSON: Thom Shanker; Peter W (Lt Gen) Chiarelli

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); SYRIA (79%) Iraq; Anbar Province (Iraq); Baghdad (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



320 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: The Whistle-Stop (a Stylish One at That) Finds a New Function: Drawing Students

BYLINE: By JIM ROBBINS

DATELINE: LIVINGSTON, Mont., Sept. 13 

 BODY:
A gleaming four-car train, silver and blue, chugged into the elegant historic depot here on Wednesday, recalling an era of rail travel long faded.
 But nostalgia was not the point. This private train was on a whistle-stop tour that is part of a new effort by the University of Montana to change a statistic dismaying to educators: fewer than half the state's high school graduates go on to college.
''These kids are growing up with parents who never went to college and don't realize the value,'' said Mick Hanson, director of the university's financial aid office. ''You build dreams at an early age, and they're hearing you don't need to go to college to make a living.'' 
 The university, in Missoula, has undertaken recruiting tours in the past, but never in such high style. The train included the Silver Cloud, a deluxe 1950's rail car that was refurbished some 15 years ago: gutted and then decorated with plush carpeting, comfortable couches and a dining room table.
 The historic depots in the state's largest cities have not been used for passenger rail traffic since the 1970's, when the main line through Montana was abandoned by Amtrak. For several days, though, the past re-emerged as the train carried university officials to towns around the state.
 The train was provided by Dennis Washington, an industrialist who owns not only Montana Rail Link, a railroad that runs across the state, but also a large construction business and numerous other companies. His wife, Phyllis, is a University of Montana alumna.
 At its stops here in Livingston, some 20 miles east of Bozeman, and in Helena and Billings, high school teachers brought their students to tour the train and talk with representatives of the university.
 ''It's gotten a lot of attention,'' said the university's executive vice president, James P. Foley. ''The stuff we usually do is boring. Instead of a meeting room, we meet on the train. Because of that, more faculty want to be involved, more deans and more students. That's kind of neat.''
 About 43 percent of Montana's high school graduates went on to college this academic year. Though that was near the national median, officials here fear that the figure will soon decline, based on the number of students now taking college preparatory courses.
 One factor, the officials say, is the growing cost of a college education. Another is that this is a state that has always had decent-paying jobs in mining, logging and ranching, and where a high school diploma has simply been considered enough.
 But the economy is changing, and many of the high-paying jobs are disappearing. Montana ranks 47th in median income nationally, at just over $35,000.
 Low income, in turn, adds to the affordability problem.
 ''Cost is becoming an issue for Montana residents,'' said the university's president, George M. Dennison. ''People don't want to take on $20,000 in debt,'' the average upon graduation.
 In response, the university has started a program that will pay most of the costs for low- and moderate-income students.
 The Washingtons are the university's largest benefactors. They donated most of the money for an $8 million football stadium, and Mrs. Washington headed a recent $100 million capital campaign. The couple have also donated millions for scholarships.
 Even so, their donation of a train trip, which is costing them some $50,000, stood out. 
 On a sunny morning, university officials on board sipped coffee and ate bagels while the train, complete with a two-man engine crew, a conductor and a trainmaster, snaked along the Missouri River. 
 Among the representatives was Garon C. Smith, a chemistry professor who calls himself Garon the Wizard and who, at the stop in Livingston, crouched on the grass at trackside and carefully held a match over a six-inch-tall model volcano filled with solid rocket propellant. The volcano ignited and exploded, sending an eight-foot ball of flame into the air and delighting the visiting students.
 ''They loved it,'' Professor Smith said. ''They wouldn't leave me alone.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representatives of the University of Montana traveling the state by rail in an effort to get more youths to think about going on to college. (Photo by Lynn Donaldson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TRAINS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Colleges and Universities; Railroads

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MONTANA (91%) University of Montana; Montana Rail Link

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%)

PERSON: Jim Robbins; Dennis R Washington

GEOGRAPHIC: BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%); MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%); HELENA, MT, USA (79%) MONTANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



321 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Killing Off the American Future

 BODY:
America's domination of the global information economy did not come about by accident. It flowed directly from policies that allowed the largest generation in the nation's history broad access to a first-rate college education regardless of ability to pay. By subsidizing public universities to keep tuition low, and providing federal tuition aid to poor and working-class students, this country vaulted tens of millions of people into the middle class while building the best-educated work force in the world. 
 Those farsighted policies, however, are a thing of the past. Cuts in college aid and soaring tuition at state colleges have made it difficult for young people to educate themselves at a time when a college degree has become the basic price of admission to both the middle class and the global economy.
The warning about American vulnerability, which has been sounded in several reports of late, was underscored yet again in a study by the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, a nonpartisan research organization. The report highlights some ominous trends. As the well-schooled boomers march off into retirement, the generation that replaces them is shaping up to be less educated by far. No longer the world leader in terms of the proportion of young people enrolled in college, the country now ranks 16th among the 27 nations examined when it comes to the proportion of college students who complete college degrees or certificate programs.
 When judged in terms of college affordability, 43 American states are given F's in the new report. In addition to disinvesting in higher education, the states -- and the colleges themselves -- have shifted aid once aimed at the poor students to the middle and upper income levels. They are essentially following the lead of the federal government, which has adopted the same strategy, while failing to sustain its commitment to poor students who once could have attended college on the Pell Grant program alone. 
 Unless America renews its commitment to the higher education policies that made the country great, we could soon find ourselves at the mercy of an increasingly competitive global economy. And if we let ourselves hit bottom, it could take generations for us to dig ourselves out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); HISTORY (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); TRENDS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); RANKINGS (67%) Colleges and Universities; Editorials; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



322 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: In the Exporting Horse Race, It's China by a Nose Over the U.S. 

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
FIVE years ago, total United States exports were worth about three times as much as exports from China. China's figure was growing -- the ratio had been about 5-to-1 five years before that -- but there was little doubt that it would be decades before Chinese exports equaled those of the United States. 
 But now it has happened.
This week, the United States reported it had exports of goods -- a figure that excludes exports of services -- of $80.313 billion in July. China had already reported its July figure, $80.337 billion.
 It was the first month ever that China reported higher exports than the United States. 
 To be sure, the figures are not seasonally adjusted, something that China does not do for its statistics. If they were, it is probable that the United States would still be ahead, perhaps for a few more months.
 Nonetheless, ''there is no doubt about the trend,'' said Robert J. Barbera, the chief economist of ITG. He noted that China had already released its August figure, showing an increase to $90.77 billion.
 The large chart shown here gives monthly figures back to 1995, for both the United States and China. The other charts show the share of China's exports going to its three largest trading partners: the United States, Europe and Japan. Those data use 12-month moving averages to smooth the figures.
 As can be easily seen, exports to all three countries have soared over the years. But the final chart shows the market share of the three trading partners for Chinese exports over time, and there have been changes. Japan was China's largest customer in the mid-1990's, buying a sixth of what China sold at the peak.
 But the United States moved into the No. 1 position in 1997 and held it until last year, when Europe -- measured as a continent -- began to take a larger share of Chinese exports than the United States.
 One way to look at exports over a long period of time is to measure the compound annual rate of increase. For the 10 years through July, Chinese exports rose at an annual rate of 19.5 percent, quadruple the 4.8 percent rate of growth for the United States. (The figures are not adjusted for inflation, and are measured in dollars.)
 By contrast, Germany's exports rose at an annual rate of 7.0 percent, and it remains the largest exporter, with July sales of $92.7 billion. Growth rates were 5.0 percent for France, 7.5 percent for Spain and 5.6 percent for Britain. Japan, notwithstanding the fact it still runs substantial trade surpluses, showed export growth at a rate of just 4.0 percent.
 China's exports to the United States rose at an annual rate of 22.3 percent, faster than its overall rate but slower than the 23.3 percent growth rate of exports to Europe. Exports to Japan rose at a slower rate, 11.4 percent.
 For the United States, exports to China have risen at an annual rate of 15.5 percent, the fastest growth in sales to any large country but not nearly enough to keep the trade deficit with China from becoming a political issue. But over the decade, exports to Japan have actually declined, at an annual rate of 1.6 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''China Passes U.S. in Exports''Graph tracks monthly goods exports for China and the U.S. since 1995.Graph tracks 12-month moving average of Chinese exports since 1995 to:JAPANUNITED STATESEUROPEGraph tracks share of Chinese exports since 1995 to:JAPANUNITED STATESEUROPE(Sources by China Customs
 U.S. Census Bureau, via Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (93%); STATISTICS (89%); TRENDS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%) International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (78%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



323 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Iraqi Leaders Plan Ditches To Seal Off Baghdad
The Iraqi government plans to seal off Baghdad within weeks by ringing it with a series of trenches and setting up checkpoints to control movement in and out of the city, an Interior Ministry spokesman said. A1

The American military in Iraq will not abandon the fight against insurgents in the Sunni-dominated Anbar Province despite a shift of troops toward Baghdad for a major operation to stifle sectarian violence in the capital, the second-ranking commander in Iraq said. 
 9

Seeking Change to India's Law
An open letter to the Indian government is the latest part of a growing citizens' movement calling for the repeal of a 145-year-old law that bans gay sex. The letter is signed by an eclectic list of Indian writers, filmmakers, lawyers and other luminaries. A6

Palestinian Official Slain
A senior Palestinian intelligence officer and four others were shot to death in their car in Gaza as political leaders continued to squabble over a possible new national unity government. A8

Muslims Ask Pope for Apology
Pope Benedict XVI drew rising anger over comments he made Tuesday about Islam, as Muslim leaders around the world angrily accused him of dividing religions and demanded an apology. A6

Europe Claims Progress on Iran
The European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, offered his most upbeat assessment to date on the nuclear impasse, insisting that talks to persuade Iran to suspend uranium enrichment were progressing. A8

DDT Use Urged to Fight Malaria
The World Health Organization forcefully endorsed wider use of the insecticide DDT across Africa to exterminate and repel the mosquitoes that cause malaria. The disease kills over a million people a year, 800,000 of them young children in Africa. A7

NATIONAL A10-13; 16

Officials Say Spinach May Be Cause of Outbreak
As the number of cases of a virulent strain of E. coli linked to fresh prepackaged spinach grew to at least 94 in 20 states, federal health authorities identified an organic produce company in California as a possible source of some of the tainted spinach. A1

Bush Defends Rules for Trials
President Bush made an impassioned defense of his proposed rules for the interrogation and prosecution of terror suspects, warning that the nation's ability to defend itself would be undermined if the Senate did not come around to his position. A12

Congressman Admits Crimes
Representative Bob Ney, Republican of Ohio, admitted that he had effectively put his office up for sale to corrupt Washington lobbyists. Federal prosecutors said they would recommend a 27-month sentence for the lawmaker. A10

A New Way to Recruit Students
A private train used for recruiting tours is part of a new effort by the University of Montana to change a statistic dismaying to educators: less than half the state's high school graduates go on to college. A11

Mississippi Mayor Indicted
The mayor of Jackson, Miss., was indicted on six felony charges after months of criticism and warnings that his unorthodox crime-fighting tactics might put him on the wrong side of the law. A10

Overhauling Emergency Agency
Congressional negotiators reached an agreement on a plan to restructure the Federal Emergency Management Agency that would give the agency more responsibility. A16

Final Spacewalk Completed
A pair of astronauts completed the third and final spacewalk of their mission outside the International Space Station by freeing up a new heat-dispensing radiator and upgrading communications gear. A13

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Political Pedigree Boosts Politician's Campaign
Thomas H. Kean Jr. a candidate for United States Senate from New Jersey, has followed his father, the popular former governor, into politics, like George W. Bush before him. Mr. Kean is an example of the advantages of patrimony, which has propelled an inexperienced state legislator into one of the tightest Senate races in the country. A1

Pataki Expands Disability Pay
Governor Pataki has signed into law a bill that adds strokes to a list of ailments that qualify as line-of-duty disabilities for New York City police officers and firefighters, over Mayor Bloomberg's objections. The law is the latest in a long list of pension sweeteners that have driven up pension costs by billions of dollars. B1

Beliefs B6

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-6

U.S.C. Could Face Penalties
Southern California could be stripped of its 2004 national championship, if an N.C.A.A. investigation proves that Reggie Bush and his family accepted gifts and money from marketing agents before he turned professional, as was reported on Yahoo.com. D1

OBITUARIES B8

Oriana Fallaci
A dissecting interviewer of the powerful and an iconoclastic Italian journalist, she was 77. B8

ARTS B9-18

Klimt Works to Be Auctioned
Four of five paintings by Gustav Klimt that were relinquished by Austria this year after a long legal battle are to be auctioned on Nov. 8 at Christie's, officials said, instead of sold privately. B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-9

Bad News for Automakers
Despite insisting all this year that they had solutions to their financial struggles well in hand, both the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Group conceded that the steps they have taken are not working, and that more bad news is in store. A1

New Economic Data
The government reported that consumer prices rose only 0.2 percent in August, pushing annual inflation to 3.8 percent, the lowest since April. Meanwhile, retail sales rose by a respectable rate of 0.2 percent in August. C1

Hewlett-Packard Inquiry
Prosecutors looking into the internal spying operation at Hewlett-Packard are beginning to piece together a chain of investigators from the company down to the detective agencies that may have been involved in obtaining the phone records of its directors and some journalists. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Interior's internal messes; the pope's words; killing off the American future; Maura J. Casey on Ann R., alcoholic.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, John Tierney.

Bridge B17
Crossword B16
TV Listings B18
Weather C10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); MALARIA (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (86%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); LAWYERS (71%); SHOOTINGS (70%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (70%); CORRUPTION (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); INSECTICIDES (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); BACTERIA (63%); E COLI (62%); SENTENCING (61%); CHILDREN (50%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (50%); JAVIER SOLANA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); AFRICA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



324 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: The Story Behind MySpace

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL. 
E-mail: whatsonline@nytimes.com

 BODY:
TRENT LAPINSKI, a 20-year-old blogger and journalism student, has been investigating the social-networking site MySpace since July 2005, when the News Corporation bought it.
 This week, Valleywag, a Silicon Valley gossip blog, published Mr. Lapinski's long, critical examination of MySpace. According to Mr. Lapinski and Nick Douglas, Valleywag's editor, an unidentified ''online publisher'' that had contracted Mr. Lapinski to write the article balked based on ''groundless legal implications'' after News Corporation complained (valleywag.com). Mr. Lapinski said the News Corporation declined to comment on his article.
But News Corporation is not the focus. It is the tale of MySpace's founders, who, according to Mr. Lapinski's report, came from companies involved with spam, spyware and adware. 
 The article was ''professionally fact-checked,'' Mr. Lapinski wrote, and although Mr. Douglas wrote in the introduction that it reads ''like a conspiracy theory,'' it is based mostly on information that has been in the public record all along, though never assembled in such a comprehensive fashion. 
 According to the article, and many sources to which it links, MySpace began this way: ''Headed by C.E.O., founder, and chairman Brad Greenspan, eUniverse (now Intermix Media), was a multimillion-dollar marketing and entertainment company known for sites like Skilljam.com, pop-up advertising, unsolicited mass e-mails, spyware, and the adware behind controversial peer-to-peer file sharing network Kazaa.''
 Two men from a company called ResponseBase -- which, like eUniverse, was the target of many complaints about spamming -- came to eUniverse when that company purchased ResponseBase in 2002. They were Chris DeWolfe, the current chief executive of MySpace, and Tom Anderson, the first ''friend'' of MySpace members.The three men were members of Friendster, the social-networking site that preceded MySpace, and they used that site as a template for MySpace, but with the focus on commerce rather than networking, Mr. Lapinski said. 
 Mr. Lapinski said MySpace's initial popularity came not from word-of-mouth, as is often assumed, but from an intense e-mail campaign. From there, Mr. Lapinski details the already well-known, drama-fraught deal to sell Intermix to News Corporation last year. He describes the current MySpace as more of a marketing tool than a social-networking site. 
 Loren Baker of Search Engine Journal wrote that nearly everything in the article is old: It is ''well known in the marketing world that the parent company which sold MySpace to News Corporation was not a band of do-gooders.''
 ''Does this mean that MySpace will spam you now?'' Mr. Baker asked. ''Not really, as Fox Interactive is not going to ruin a good thing.''
 JUST ANOTHER WORD -- The Cato Institute this week published its annual Economic Freedom of the World report, which ''seeks to measure the consistency of the institutions and policies of various countries with voluntary exchange and the other dimensions of economic freedom.''
 ''This year's report,'' according to the introduction, ''notes that economic freedom remains on the rise,'' though the average score is still only at 5.1 out of 10. The highest-scoring country is Hong Kong, with a score of 8.7, followed closely by Singapore (showing that economic freedom is measured here in strict isolation from other kinds of freedom). The United States scored 8.2. At the bottom are countries like the Central African Republic, Algeria and Venezuela. The report can be downloaded from cato.org .
 NOSTALGIA BREAK -- Nostalgic types and ironic hipsters will love the set of 1970's toy commercials on YouTube (search for ''70's toy commercials''). The spots for games like Bing Bang Boing and for toys like the Water Wiggle are fun to watch, but the most striking thing about these commercials is how long they were. At a full minute each, they might lose most of today's attention-short youth (youtube.com) DAN MITCHELL


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SPYWARE (89%); EMAIL MARKETING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLISHING (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Computers and the Internet; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Economic Conditions and Trends; Toys; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (93%); MYSPACE INC (85%); DEMAND MEDIA INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (59%) Valleywag.com; Myspace.com; Cato Institute; Youtube.com

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (93%); NWS (ASX) (93%); DMD (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (85%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (85%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Trent Lapinski; Dan Mitchell

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



325 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

WYETH WINS FIRST PREMPRO SUIT -- A jury in the first trial against the hormone replacement drug Prempro from Wyeth found that the company was not negligent and did adequately warn patients and doctors of the risk of cancer.
 The lawsuit, the first to go to trial among the 5,000 filed against the company, charged that Wyeth, based in Madison, N.J., had been negligent in testing, manufacturing and marketing hormone therapies used to treat menopausal symptoms, sales of which have plummeted since a 2002 study found an increased risk of breast cancer, stroke and heart disease. Lawyers for the plaintiff, Linda Reeves, 67, had also argued that Wyeth failed to warn users and doctors about the need for regular screening for cancer and heart problems. 
 The jury for the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas in Little Rock also found that the company's hormone drugs were not defective in their design. The second trial involving Prempro began last week in Philadelphia. Shares of Wyeth rose 10 cents, to close at $50.08. (REUTERS)

HEAD NAMED FOR NEW PEPSI UNIT -- PepsiCo named the head of its Quaker-Tropicana-Gatorade unit to run a new North American division, the first management shuffle since Indra Nooyi was appointed the company's chief executive last month. The executive, John C. Compton, left, will report to Ms. Nooyi and oversee the North American soda, Frito-Lay snacks and Quaker-Tropicana-Gatorade units, PepsiCo, based in Purchase, N.Y., said. Those divisions represent about 65 percent of PepsiCo's total sales, or $21.2 billion last year.
 Stock in PepsiCo rose 48 cents, to $65.03 a share. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

TELECOM ITALIA CHAIRMAN RESIGNS -- The chairman of Telecom Italia, Marco Tronchetti Provera, resigned after his plan to split off and possibly sell its wireless division was assailed by Prime Minister Romano Prodi's government and unions. Mr. Tronchetti Provera, 58, resigned to ''safeguard the interests of the company and investors,'' Telecom Italia said. He turned down the board's request to remain, saying the decision was ''irrevocable,'' the company said.
 Mr. Tronchetti Provera quit less than a week after announcing a plan to reverse his strategy and focus on broadband Internet, raising concern he might sell Telecom Italia's mobile unit. He remains the largest shareholder in the holding company that controls Telecom Italia, that country's biggest phone company. Guido Rossi, 75, a former chairman of Italy's stock market regulator, was appointed chairman of Telecom Italia. He held the same post 1997. Carlo Buora, currently co-chief executive officer, was named executive vice chairman. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

BROKERAGE TO CUT 750 JOBS -- Marsh & McLennan, the world's biggest insurance brokerage, said it would cut 750 jobs, consolidate some locations and revamp its information technology structure to cut costs. Marsh & McLennan, which has struggled with profitability since it changed operating procedures after New York's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, accused it of bid rigging in 2004, said the actions would save it roughly $350 million a year by the end of 2008.
 The 750 job cuts come on top of some 5,000 layoffs that Marsh, based in New York, had made previously in the fallout of the Spitzer probe. It said the plan would result in charges of about $225 million over the next three years. (AP)

DELPHI GETS MORE TIME -- Delphi, the largest American auto-parts maker to file for bankruptcy, got more time to negotiate with its unions after a judge granted the company's request to delay a hearing on voiding labor contracts. Judge Robert Drain of United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan set a Sept. 28 conference for an update on the talks, Delphi said in a statement. Delphi and its unions had been scheduled to resume the hearing Sept. 18.
 A pay-cut settlement with the unions would avert Delphi's court bid to scrap the contracts and impose terms including a reduction of more than 50 percent in hourly wages, to as little as $12.50 an hour from $27. Delphi, based in Troy, Mich., says it needs the savings to exit Chapter 11, and the unions have threatened to strike if the cuts are imposed. A walkout could shut down General Motors, Delphi's largest customer. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

TOOLMAKER LOWERS FORECASTS -- Illinois Tool Works, the maker of Wilsonart countertops and Duo-fast nail guns, lowered its revenue and profit forecasts for the third quarter and the year because of weak home sales and a slowdown in auto production.
 Profit will be 78 cents to 80 cents a share this quarter and $3.03 to $3.07 for the full year, the company, based in Glenview, Ill., said. Both are below analysts' expectations. Last month, Illinois Tool said it expected to earn 78 cents to 82 cents in the third quarter and $3.03 to $3.11 for the year.
 New-home sales in the United States fell in July more than economists forecast, and the number of unsold houses climbed to a record, deepening an industry slump. Illinois Tool also said results would be hurt by an anticipated slowdown in North American automotive production.
 Shares of Illinois Tool fell $1.14, or 2.6 percent, to $43.53. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

LORD BLACK ASKS FOR DISMISSAL -- Conrad M. Black, the former Hollinger International chairman indicted on charges of racketeering, fraud and tax evasion, asked a federal judge to throw out most of the 14 criminal counts he faces. In papers filed with Judge Amy St. Eve of United States District Court in Chicago, Lord Black's lawyers requested that she dismiss mail- and wire-fraud counts because the statute on which they are based is too vague. Lord Black and four other Hollinger executives were first charged with looting the company for their own benefit. Three of them also asked for dismissal of some of the charges against them yesterday.
 Lord Black, 62, was once one of the world's largest publishers of English-language newspapers. Hollinger International, which he led as chairman and chief executive officer, ousted him in 2003 amid charges of corruption. Earlier this year, the company changed its name to Sun-Times Media Group. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph: ''Illinois Tool Works per share''Last Friday: $43.53Yesterday: $43.96

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENOPAUSE (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); CANCER (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (87%); EXECUTIVES (87%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (86%); LAYOFFS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (77%); SNACK FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); LAWYERS (75%); HEART DISEASE (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); STROKES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); BREAST CANCER (72%); SOFT DRINKS (71%); RESIGNATIONS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); BROADBAND (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (62%); SECURITIES LAW (61%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (94%); PEPSICO INC (90%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); FRITO-LAY INC (55%); TELECOM ITALIA SPA (53%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (94%); PFEB (BRU) (94%); PFE (NYSE) (94%); PEP (NYSE) (90%); MMC (NYSE) (58%); MHM (LSE) (58%); TIT (BIT) (53%); TI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (53%)

PERSON: INDRA K NOOYI (57%); ROMANO PRODI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



326 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Raul Castro Speaks Out Against U.S. at Summit Talks 

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
Raul Castro, who is standing in as Cuba's leader while his brother, Fidel, recuperates from surgery, railed at the United States during a summit meeting in Havana of nonaligned nations on Friday, urging them to unite against ''unacceptable acts of aggression essentially motivated by insatiable appetite for strategic resources.'' 
 Mr. Castro's first public speech since taking power in July was just as stridently anti-Washington as those offered by his elder brother. He spoke of the Bush administration's ''irrational pretensions for world dominance'' and called ''absurd'' its aggressive military spending now that the cold war is over.
''With regard to international relations, we are not the decisive force that we could be,'' Mr. Castro, 75, told members of the 118-member group of developing nations. ''The Non-Aligned Movement now has to wage courageous battles against unilateralism, double standards and the impunity granted to those in power, for a fairer and more equal international order.''
 The United States declined observer status at the summit meeting. In Miami, however, the Bush administration's top Cuban-American official, Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez, delivered his own rebuke to Cuba's government.
 Condemning repression on the island and calling Raul Castro ''simply another military dictator,'' Mr. Gutierrez called on Cuba to hold a referendum on its future leadership, a proposal that the Communist government would surely dismiss.
 ''Why not ask the people?'' Mr. Gutierrez said at conference on Latin America's economic future, which attracted leaders from throughout the region. ''Let the Cuban people speak. Let the Cuban people determine their own destiny.''
 Noticeably absent from the fray in Havana was Fidel Castro, 80, who continued his recuperation. Cuban newspaper photographs showed him clad in pajamas while meeting with Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations, and President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela.
 ''Despite the rigor and will with which he pursues his treatment and physical therapy, the doctors have insisted that he continue to rest,'' Felipe Perez Roque, Cuba's foreign minister, told reporters on Friday. 
 The Non-Aligned Movement began during the cold war, when many nations were firmly allied with either the United States or the Soviet Union. The group has lived on, and now has 118 members that see themselves as the voice for the developing world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); COLD WAR (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); REFERENDUMS (64%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (62%) United States International Relations; International Relations; Third World and Developing Countries

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (93%); FIDEL CASTRO (79%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (78%); PEREZ ROQUE (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%) Marc Lacey; Raul Castro; Fidel (Pres) Castro; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Cuba; Havana (Cuba)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



327 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: European Diplomat Cites Gains in Iran Talks 

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Washington.; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
The European Union's foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, offered Friday his most upbeat assessment to date on the nuclear impasse, insisting that talks to persuade Iran to suspend uranium enrichment were progressing. 
 ''I can say honestly that we're making progress,'' he told reporters. ''It doesn't mean that everything has been solved.''
In another sign that some headway is being made, a senior Bush administration official said later that Mr. Solana would meet with Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, in New York on Sunday. The official, and others cited in this article, insisted they not be quoted by name, following normal diplomatic protocol. 
 The European Union is softening its previous position that Iran must suspend enrichment before any negotiations can begin. Instead, officials said, there was momentum behind a twin-track approach of starting negotiations before enrichment is halted while simultaneously allowing discussion of possible penalties against Iran to continue at the United Nations. 
 The United States has insisted that Iran suspend enrichment before any negotiations can take place, though on Tuesday Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said the administration might stop seeking to impose sanctions if Iran suspended enrichment. European Union officials said they were still examining an offer by Iran last weekend temporarily to suspend its nuclear enrichment program in return for the beginning of negotiations over a package of economic and political incentives offered by the West.
 A senior French diplomat close to the talks said that the mood in European diplomacy toward Iran had shifted. ''Things with Iran are not as difficult as they were before,'' the official said. ''There is a growing sense that suspension and negotiations can happen in parallel, and that flexibility is better than a dead end.''
 The United States acknowledged Thursday that it faced resistance from crucial allies over its attempt to press for sanctions.
 President Bush, who will visit the United Nations next week for meetings, said Friday he was worried Iran was trying to drag out the process with the United States and its European allies.
 ''My concern is that they'll stall, they'll try to wait us out,'' he said. ''So part of my objective in New York is to remind people that stalling shouldn't be allowed. We need to move the process.'' 
 Mr. Solana played down the threat of sanctions, saying that Washington was still willing to give diplomacy a chance. ''I don't think our American friends will be losing their patience,'' he said.
 But he cautioned that the window for negotiations would not stay open indefinitely. ''The United Nations resolution is a track that is still open,'' he said, but added: ''Dialogue will not last forever. That is not our idea.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (87%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%) Uranium; Atomic Weapons

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) European Union

PERSON: JAVIER SOLANA (90%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%); ALI LARIJANI (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Dan Bilefsky; Javier Solana

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (73%); FRANCE (79%) Iran

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



328 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: On New Jersey Ballot, Like Father (And His Father, and His Father)

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Jonathan Miller contributed reporting from Bridgewater, N.J.

DATELINE: TRENTON, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
One of Thomas H. Kean Jr.'s earliest political memories is watching his father, Gov. Thomas H. Kean Sr., deliver the keynote address at the Republican National Convention in 1988, when George H. W. Bush was nominated for president.
 Now, Mr. Bush is one of many of the former governor's powerful friends helping support the younger Mr. Kean's bid to unseat Senator Robert Menendez, as patrimony has helped propel a relatively inexperienced state legislator into one of the tightest races in the country. Some Democrats here even complain that Republicans are trying to confuse voters into thinking that the popular former governor and chairman of the 9/11 Commission is running, not his 38-year-old son.
After all, Keans have been on the ballot here almost as long as there have been ballots. 
 ''When my dad ran for Congress -- and he had been the Assembly speaker -- the headline said, 'Kean's son to run for Congress,' '' said Mr. Kean, now a state senator. ''When my grandfather ran for Congress in 1938, there was a headline that said, 'Kean's son to run for Congress.' When my great-grandfather ran for Senate, I think there was a headline that said, 'Kean's brother to run for Senate,' because his older brother had served in the United States Senate. 
 ''So I personally set very high standards for my own experience in public office, and I think the public has set very high standards for me.''
 As they did with the current President Bush in 2000, Democrats say Mr. Kean, in his first run for statewide office, lacks the resume for Washington. But suddenly the nonpartisan Cook Political Report, and several other election handicappers, have moved New Jersey -- which last elected a Republican senator in 1972 -- into the toss-up column, complicating Democrats' plans to keep a supposedly safe Senate seat.
 Despite Mr. Menendez's three-to-one fund-raising edge, Mr. Kean has capitalized on sky-high name recognition to pass the incumbent in several recent public opinion polls by as much as 5 percentage points. Party leaders are increasingly focused on the race: Karl Rove, the White House political guru, is scheduled to sponsor a fund-raising lunch for Mr. Kean on Monday at 21 Club in Manhattan, and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican whip, is sponsoring a breakfast on his behalf on Wednesday in Washington.
 It does not hurt, of course, that former Governor Kean, who enhanced his stature with his leadership of the 9/11 Commission, has been in the news promoting a book and played a part in last week's controversy over ABC's miniseries on the subject. The younger Mr. Kean has also leaned on his father's allies for financial support and strategy. And not every candidate's father has a political action committee -- Governor Kean's Fund for All Americans has contributed $10,000 to the effort. (The senior Mr. Kean and other Keans have donated $26,500.)
 ''I do think what we are seeing in the polls is a familiarity quotient,'' said Ingrid W. Reed, a political scientist at Rutgers University. ''Even if people know it's not Tom Kean Sr., the name resonates, and people say, 'How bad can he be?' ''
 Mr. Kean says he is not bothered by people who equate his career with political entitlement, or wonder whether he can escape the shadow of his father -- or his father's father's father. And while he shares many moderate Republican values with the former governor, he is hardly a political clone, demonstrating a more conservative bent on immigration and gay rights. 
 ''The umbilical cord was cut a while ago,'' Mr. Kean said in a recent interview at his home in Westfield.
 Being the child of a prominent politician brings the blessings of name recognition and nostalgic good will, and the burden -- especially for those who share the same first and last names -- of the inevitable comparisons and the invariable complaints that the child had too easy a glide path.
 Some namesake sons, like Al Gore and Richard Daley, have equaled or exceeded their fathers' records. Some have fallen short, like Adlai E. Stevenson III and Hubert H. Humphrey III. And some have been so unabashed in trumpeting their father's names that you might think the two were running mates.
 The elder Mr. Kean, in a recent interview at his office in Far Hills, acknowledged that the pressure could be daunting -- and said he had steered all three of his children away from politics.
 ''It's very difficult when your father is prominent in the same field that you're about to go into,'' he said. ''Frankly, there are a lot of children from political families who have had a lot of problems in their lives.'' Asked if his son had ever wished that he had a different name, perhaps to lower expectations, he smiled and said, ''He's never said that to me, but I suspect there were times.''
 When it comes to political dynasties, the Keans are to New Jersey what the Kennedys are to Massachusetts, or even what the Livingstons, the Keans' distant relatives, once were to New York. 
 As he grew up at the family homestead in Livingston, the younger Mr. Kean said he was most impressed with the reception that his father received in the community.
 ''Whether it be in the movie theater, the diner or the local Friendly's, people would come up and say, 'This is an important issue,' or people would thank him for something he did,'' Mr. Kean recalled. ''That impressed upon me that you could do something good.''
 At Dartmouth College -- which Mr. Kean chose over his father's alma mater, Princeton, to avoid implications that he was admitted because of his connections -- his roommates said they found out his father was the governor of New Jersey several months into the school year, when the governor showed up on campus escorted by state troopers. 
 ''He looks to his dad more as a mentor than as a classic father figure, if you will,'' said Peter Van Alstine, a roommate at Dartmouth who remains one of Mr. Kean's closest friends. ''It wasn't the typical American, 'Go fishing, hang out daily, arms-around-the-shoulder' type deal. It was definitely more infrequent and more of a mentor relationship.''
 Mr. Kean's first job out of college, in 1990, was at the Environmental Protection Agency in Washington -- a political appointment his father arranged. Then, after the first President Bush lost in 1992, Mr. Kean worked for former Representative Bob Franks, a moderate Republican and family friend.
 At the Fletcher School at Tufts University, where Mr. Kean studied the politics and economics of Central Asia, his academic adviser, Andrew C. Hess, said that he learned of the student's lineage from a secretary.
 A classmate, Geneve Mantri, said: ''It didn't seem to be a weight on him. Having come from the U.K., where there's an awful lot of name-dropping, where your sense of identity is very much tied to your parents or grandparents, it was nice to meet somebody who had that background but wasn't self-conscious about it, either in a good way or a bad way.''
 Mr. Kean was studying for a doctorate before being sidetracked by politics -- just as his father had been sidetracked from a Ph.D. decades earlier. He decisively lost his first electoral effort, a Republican Congressional primary in 2000, despite his father's help. ''It was probably good for him,'' said David Yaccino, a former roommate and Psi Upsilon Fraternity brother at Dartmouth. ''He realized that the Kean name was not going to get him elected.''
 But it sure helps. 
 At last week's fund-raiser in Bridgewater, former President Bush observed that it was an old mutual friend of Governor Kean's and his, Nicholas F. Brady, the former Treasury secretary, who extended the invitation.
 The former governor was surrounded at the event by enough alumni of his administration that one old hand joked they could ''convene a cabinet meeting.''
 ''A lot of those folks are not involved in year-to-year election efforts,'' said Roger A. Bodman, a former transportation commissioner and one of many who have dusted off their Rolodexes from the 1980's to dial for dollars. ''It's their affection for the Kean family that's their motivation here, rather than supporting another Republican.''
 The elder Mr. Kean is coy about how involved he plans to be in the campaign. He says that he has gone to strategy sessions -- when his son asks -- and a few fund-raisers, also when his son asks. And every couple of days, he said, the phone rings.
 ''He'll call me and say, 'Dad, what do you think about this, what do you think about that?' '' the elder Mr. Kean said. ''What I want him to understand is, no matter what I say, he's going to make the ultimate judgment -- he's the candidate.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: ''A Political Dynasty''State Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr., the Republican nominee for United States Senate, is the latest in a long line of Keans, one of New Jersey's most prominent families, to hold public office.John Kean(1756-1795)A delegate to the Continental Congress from South Carolina, 1785-1787(great grandfather to Hamilton Fish Kean and John Kean))Hamilton Fish Kean(1862-1941)U.S. senator fromN.J., 1929-1935John Kean(1852-1914)U.S. senator from N.J., 1899-1911Robert Winthrop Kean(1893-1980)congressman from N.J., 1938-1959Thomas H. Kean(1935-)governor of New Jersey, 1982-1990Thomas H. Kean, Jr.(1968-)N.J. assemblyman, 2001-2003
state senator, 2003-present(Sources by Alvin S. Felzenberg, ''Governor Tom Kean: From the New Jersey Statehouse to the 9/11 Commission''
Manual of the State of New Jersey, 2006
 U.S. Senate Historical Office)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); POLITICS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (89%); BOB MENENDEZ (78%); KARL ROVE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



329 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Intelligence Official Is Killed

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Taghreed el-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
A senior Palestinian intelligence officer and four others were shot to death in their car in Gaza on Friday as political leaders continued to squabble over a possible new national unity government.
 The daylight shooting, 200 yards from the home of Prime Minister Ismail Haniya, and the escape of the killers, were indications of the continuing lawlessness in Gaza. The shooting was seen by some local officials as more likely to be a robbery, and by some as part of the conflict between rival security forces of Fatah and Hamas.
The dead senior officer, Brig. Gen. Jad Tayeh, 55, was the international coordination chief in the Palestinian intelligence services and was well known to foreign envoys. A briefcase and the officers' weapons were taken. The immediate speculation in Gaza was that the briefcase contained money. 
 Progress appeared to be slow on the national unity government announced Monday by the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah. He said that Fatah and Hamas had agreed on a political platform for a new government that he expected to meet international requirements sufficiently to restore funding that was cut off after Hamas took power in March.
 But the platform has not been published, the parties disagree about portfolios and Mr. Abbas has delayed dissolving the current government. The United States and some members of the European Union have expressed doubts about whether the new platform will satisfy the West's three requirements: to recognize the right of Israel to exist, to forswear violence and to accept all previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements.
 In Brussels on Friday, European Union foreign ministers agreed to support a new Palestinian government, but heeded American warnings that it was too early to abandon the aid restrictions before a new government was formed and its platform published.
 On Thursday, Mr. Haniya accused the United States of undermining efforts to form the new government and called on Europe to take the lead in lifting international sanctions against the Palestinians. ''The U.S. administration does not want the Palestinians to be unified,'' Mr. Haniya said. ''It puts obstacles in the way of this political coming together. It wants to extort the Palestinian people and the Palestinian government.''
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, in a meeting on Wednesday with the Israeli foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, said that the United States would insist on the three conditions, including an explicit recognition of Israel's right to exist, as agreed upon by the ''quartet'' of the United States, European Union, Russia and the United Nations that had been trying to promote peace negotiations.
 Hamas will not do that, its leaders say, but is trying to draw a distinction between a political platform designed for a coalition government and the beliefs of the Hamas movement itself.
 Still, Mr. Haniya and Mr. Abbas have been appealing to European anxieties about the severe economic depression that the cutoff in funding and aid has produced in the Palestinian territories, and in particular in Gaza, which the United Nations has called ''a ticking time bomb.''
 United Nations agencies have sharply increased their aid, including basic foodstuffs, to prevent malnutrition in Gaza, where 40 percent of the work force is employed by the Palestinian Authority and has received less than two months' salary in the last seven months.
 The Europeans want to end the stalemate and use the conclusion of the war in Lebanon as a springboard to renewed Israeli-Palestinian talks. Some European countries want to restore the aid in stages, after specific benchmarks are met, like an end to rocket attacks on Israel.
 But the Europeans are split. The external relations commissioner of the European Union, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, said that it should show flexibility provided that a new government ''reflected'' the three demands. ''It is clear we want to be firm on principles, but we should be flexible about the form this government chooses in the text,'' she said.
 The Slovenian foreign minister, Dimitrij Rupel, told reporters: ''We are happy about the government of national unity. We are trying to help it, also financially.''
 But such a government does not yet exist, as Britain's minister for Europe, Geoff Hoon, pointed out, saying that ''there is still some further clarification as to precisely what is the underlying agreement involving Hamas.''
 Ben Bot, the Dutch foreign minister, said that support depended on meeting the three demands. Asked about the prospects, he said, ''So far not very positive, I must say.''
 In a joint statement, the foreign ministers ''welcomed'' a new Palestinian government and ''expressed the hope that its political platform will reflect the quartet principles and allow for early engagement.'' They also ''expressed deep concern at the humanitarian situation in the Palestinian territories,'' again called on Israel to hand over to the Palestinians nearly $400 million in taxes and duties collected since February and urged Israel to reopen all crossings to and from Gaza.
 Mr. Abbas is hoping that a new government will be accompanied by a series of developments: the release of a captured Israeli soldier, the withdrawal of Israeli forces from Gaza, the release of Hamas legislators and ministers held by Israel, a renewed cease-fire, a meeting between himself and the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert, the release of about 600 Palestinian prisoners, the handover of the withheld taxes and duties, and the resumption of American and European aid.
 That complicated chain of events would get Israeli-Palestinian relations closer to where they were at the end of last year, but would not move the two sides much closer to a final peace agreement.
 Also on Friday, Israeli forces bombed a house in Rafah that the army said contained the entrance to a tunnel used to smuggle arms. The Israelis said that they had warned inhabitants to leave, and that there were secondary explosions suggesting that arms were in the tunnel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); HAMAS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AL FATAH (78%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (68%); EXTORTION (62%) Intelligence Services; Politics and Government; Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%) Fatah; Hamas

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); TZIPORA LIVNI (58%) Steven Erlanger; Jad (Brig Gen) Tayeh

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (55%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); BELGIUM (79%) Israel; Gaza Strip

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



330 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Daimler Looking Outside U.S. For Source of Subcompacts

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
DaimlerChrysler is in talks with companies in China and elsewhere for the export of subcompact cars to North America, the company's chairman said here on Friday in comments that could renew anxieties in Detroit about competition from China.
 Dieter Zetsche, the chairman, said that the company had concluded it could not competitively make its own subcompact cars for its Dodge brand in North America and would need to import them. 
''We are aware we do not have a system which could produce a vehicle at an economically viable level,'' Mr. Zetsche said, adding that while negotiations have not yet produced an agreement, ''We are very much progressing.''
 During a news conference and in conversations with reporters immediately afterward, Mr. Zetsche carefully avoided saying whether any of these negotiations were with companies in China. But during a very brief interview an hour later when he walked out a back door of the factory here with two aides, he said it would be fair to describe the talks as being conducted with companies in China and elsewhere.
 No multinational company has begun sustained car exports from China to the United States or announced concrete plans to do so. Honda is shipping Jazz hatchbacks to Belgium from Guangzhou in southeastern China, however, and several Chinese automakers have announced plans to export to the United States, notably Geely, Chery and Lifan.
 DaimlerChrysler's interest in importing a subcompact to the United States is not new. Rudiger Grube, executive vice president and management board member of DaimlerChrysler responsible for China and corporate development, made the biggest news of the Shanghai auto show in April 2005 when he told a small group of reporters that the company was in talks with one of its Chinese partners to create a joint venture for the export of subcompacts to the United States.
 But Mr. Grube's remarks upset the United Automobile Workers union, and DaimlerChrysler quickly backpedaled, refusing even to confirm to other reporters that Mr. Grube had made the remarks at the Shanghai show. During a tour of a new factory here before Mr. Zetsche's news conference, two DaimlerChrysler spokesmen said in separate conversations that they were not aware of any move by the company to pursue the export of subcompacts from China to the United States.
 Mr. Grube also attended the news conference with Mr. Zetsche. In an interview afterward, he said that DaimlerChrysler was reviewing ''common interests and capabilities'' with potential suppliers of subcompacts to the American market but declined to say whether any of these potential suppliers were in China.
 Like Mr. Zetsche, he also declined to identify any companies involved in the negotiations.
 Mr. Zetsche and Mr. Grube spoke after attending the opening ceremony for the first factory in China by DaimlerChrysler's Mercedes unit, part of a broad effort by Daimler to catch up in China. It has had a slow start here, which has left it last in market share among the main multinational auto groups, with three-tenths of 1 percent of the market in July, the most recent month available, or 1.4 percent if Daimler's stake in Mitsubishi is included.
 By contrast, Volkswagen had 16 percent; G.M., 11 percent; Honda, 7.2 percent; Toyota, 6.2 percent; Nissan, 4.9 percent; and Ford, 2.9 percent, according to figures compiled by Automotive Resources Asia, a consulting firm that was acquired on Tuesday by J. D. Power & Associates.
 DaimlerChrysler relied for years on the production of Jeeps here at an aging factory in Beijing that was one of the first automotive joint ventures. Chinese officials were still wearing Mao suits when the venture was set up in 1983 while executives from American Motors, later purchased by Chrysler, were wearing suits and ties.
 That inner-city factory closed early this year and has since been demolished by the Beijing municipal government as part of preparations for the 2008 Olympics. Jeep sales have plummeted because of competition from cheap Chinese sport utility vehicles, and production has been transferred to a factory near Beijing that is owned by the Beijing Automotive Industry Holding Company. 
 The factory that officially opened on Friday on the outskirts of Beijing has two assembly lines, one with the capacity to produce 25,000 E-Class and C-Class Mercedeses a year and the other with the capacity to make 80,000 Chrysler 300C large sedans and Mitsubishi Outlander crossover utility vehicles each year, all for the Chinese market. 
 The star-crossed operation has had a series of difficulties, like finding local suppliers that meet Mercedes standards and discovering more than two dozen tombs on the site that have been preliminarily assessed as dating to the Han dynasty, about 2,000 years ago.
 Government archaeologists are still examining the tombs; under Chinese law, DaimlerChrysler has to pay for the government's excavation of the site. DaimlerChrysler planned to put the factory's employee activities center where the tombs are and still hopes to do so once the archaeological work has been completed, said Gunter Butschek, the president and chief executive of the joint venture that runs the factory.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dieter Zetsche, DaimlerChrysler chairman, spoke yesterday at the opening of the first Chinese factory of DaimlerChrysler's Mercedes unit. (Photo by Elizabeth Dalziel/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Automobiles; International Trade and World Market; Factories and Industrial Plants 

COMPANY: CHONGQING LIFAN INDUSTRY (GROUP) CO LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimler-Chrysler Ag; Dodge Division of Daimlerchrysler Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (54%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (54%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (54%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (90%) Dieter Zetsche; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (91%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) EAST CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); BELGIUM (55%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



331 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Bush Says G.O.P. Rebels Are Putting Nation at Risk

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Eric Lichtblau contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 15 

 BODY:
President Bush made an impassioned defense on Friday of his proposed rules for the interrogation and prosecution of terrorism suspects, warning that the nation's ability to defend itself would be undermined if rebellious Republicans in the Senate did not come around to his position.
 Speaking at a late-morning news conference in the Rose Garden, Mr. Bush said he would have no choice but to end a C.I.A. program for the interrogation of high-level terrorism suspects if Congress passed an alternate set of rules supported by a group of Senate Republicans.
Those alternate rules were adopted Thursday by the Senate Armed Services Committee in defiance of Mr. Bush. Setting out what he suggested could be dire consequences if that bill became law, Mr. Bush said intelligence officers -- he referred to them repeatedly as ''professionals'' -- would no longer be willing and able to conduct interrogations out of concern that the vague standard for acceptable techniques could leave them vulnerable to legal action.
 ''Were it not for this program, our intelligence community believes that Al Qaeda and its allies would have succeeded in launching another attack against the American homeland,'' he said. ''But the practical matter is if our professionals don't have clear standards in the law, the program is not going to go forward.'' 
 The administration has said the Central Intelligence Agency has no ''high value'' terrorism suspects in foreign detention centers, having transferred the last of them this month to military custody at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. But officials said they considered the program crucial to efforts to foil attacks.
 ''This enemy has struck us, and they want to strike us again,'' Mr. Bush said, ''and we'll give our folks the tools necessary to protect the country. It's a debate that, that really is going to define whether or not we can protect ourselves.''
 It was also a debate Mr. Bush had hoped to have this week exclusively with Democrats as he and his party's leadership set out to draw unflattering distinctions between Republicans and Democrats on fighting terrorism for the fall elections. 
 Instead, Mr. Bush spent Friday in a second day of heavy debate, casting some of the most respected voices on military matters in his own party as hindering the fight against terrorism. As of late Friday there seemed to be no break in the impasse, even as White House officials worked behind the scenes to build new support in the Senate for the legislation the president wants.
 Leading the efforts against him in the Senate are three key Republicans on the Armed Services Committee with their own military credentials: the chairman and a former secretary of the Navy, Senator John W. Warner of Virginia; Senator John McCain of Arizona, a prisoner of war in Vietnam; and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a military judge. And publicly taking their side is Mr. Bush's former secretary of state, Colin L. Powell.
 The dispute centers on whether to pass legislation reinterpreting a provision of the Geneva Conventions known as Common Article 3 that bars ''outrages upon personal dignity''; the Supreme Court ruled that the provision applies to terrorism suspects. Mr. Bush argued that the convention's language was too vague and is proposing legislation to clarify the provisions. ''What does that mean, 'outrages upon human dignity'?'' he said at one point.
 Mr. McCain and his allies on the committee say reinterpreting the Geneva Conventions would open the door to rogue governments to interpret them as they see fit.
 In a statement late Friday, Mr. McCain stuck to his position, saying that his proposed rules included legal protections for interrogators. ''Weakening the Geneva protections is not only unnecessary, but would set an example to other countries, with less respect for basic human rights, that they could issue their own legislative reinterpretations,'' he said.
 Mr. Bush rejected the crux of Mr. McCain's argument when a reporter asked him how he would react if nations like Iran or North Korea ''roughed up'' American soldiers under the guise of their own interpretations of Common Article 3.
 ''You can give a hypothetical about North Korea or any other country,'' Mr. Bush said, casting the question as steeped in moral relativism. ''The point is that the program is not going to go forward if our professionals do not have clarity in the law.''
 He also discounted an argument made in a letter from Mr. Powell that his plan would encourage the world to ''doubt the moral basis of our fight against terrorism.''
 Asked about that analysis, Mr. Bush said, ''If there's any comparison between the compassion and decency of the American people and the terrorist tactics of extremists, it's flawed logic.'' 
 Mr. Bush was alternately combative and comedic during the hourlong session with reporters. At one point, in describing how he thought the economy and Republican tax policies would help his party in November, he said: ''I've always felt the economy is a determinate issue, if not the determinate issue in campaigns. We've had a little history of that in our family, you might remember.'' 
 It was an off-hand reference to his father's losing presidential re-election campaign in 1992, when he was damaged by economic woes and the breaking of his ''read my lips'' vow not to raise taxes.
 Mr. Bush said it was ''urban myth'' that his administration had lost focus on capturing Osama bin Laden. The president said he was frustrated by the United Nations at times, especially when it came to addressing genocide in Darfur.
 Asked about a Senate report concluding that there was no working relationship between Saddam Hussein and Al Qaeda in Iraq, Mr. Bush said forcefully, ''I never said there was an operational relationship.''
 The questioner had included a reference to Mr. Bush's Aug. 21 news conference at which he had said, ''Imagine a world in which you had Saddam Hussein who had the capacity to make a weapon of mass destruction, who was paying suiciders to kill innocent life, who would -- who had relations with Zarqawi,'' referring to the Qaeda mastermind in Iraq, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. 
 Democrats for the most part on Friday were content to allow Republicans to fight among themselves on the terrorism question. 
 ''When conservative military men like John McCain, John Warner, Lindsey Graham and Colin Powell stand up to the president, it shows how wrong and isolated the White House is,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.
 But Republicans boasted that their top issue, terrorism, was dominating the political news for yet another day and overtaking Democratic criticisms of the war in Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Comparing the Proposals''Differences between the proposed bills on detainee treatment and bringing suspected terrorists to trial.Classified evidenceLegislation proposed by President Bush: Accused cannot examine classified evidence.Proposal endorsed by Senate Armed Services Committee: Accused can examine all evidence presented to the jury.Statements obtained by torture or coercive interrogationLegislation proposed by President Bush: Excludes statements obtained by torture, and excludes those obtained by coercion if the judge finds that the circumstances under which they were made render them ''unreliable or lacking in probative value.''Proposal endorsed by Senate Armed Services Committee: Excludes statements obtained by torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. Allows evidence from coerced interrogation if the judge determines that it is reliable and probative and that its admission serves the interest of justice.HearsayLegislation proposed by President Bush: Admissible, unless the judge finds that the circumstances under which the evidence was obtained were unreliable or that it is lacking in probative value.Proposal endorsed by Senate Armed Services Committee: Generally excluded, but may be admitted only if the judge finds that the circumstances render the evidence more probative than other evidence that can be obtained through reasonable efforts.Detainee treatmentLegislation proposed by President Bush: Would amend the War Crimes Act to prohibit only certain ''serious violations'' of Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions. Does not address ''outrages upon personal dignity'' or ''humiliating and degrading treatment.''Proposal endorsed by Senate Armed Services Committee: Prohibits and defines ''grave breaches'' of Common Article 3. Does not address ''outrages upon personal dignity'' or ''humiliating and degrading treatment.''(Source by National Institute of Military Justice)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (78%); LITIGATION (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); GENOCIDE (74%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (73%); NAVIES (73%); AL-QAEDA (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); VIETNAM WAR (64%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (60%); WAR CRIMES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (59%) Terrorism; Geneva Conventions; Law and Legislation; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Prisoners of War; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); AL-QAEDA (55%); PRISONERS OF WAR (59%) Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); JOHN WARNER (57%); MARK WARNER (57%) Jim Rutenberg; Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (68%); VIET NAM (50%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



332 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Paying the Price When Companies Stumble

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
MISDEEDS and errors in judgment came back to haunt several big companies, leading to the involuntary departures of several senior corporate officers. Voluntary departures, meanwhile, were solicited from the nation's unionized auto workers.
 Not all news was bad, however. Energy prices tumbled, causing stocks to rise.

BOARD BATTLE -- Reeling from revelations that she had let the company spy on board members, Hewlett-Packard's chairwoman, Patricia C. Dunn, agreed to resign in January. George A. Keyworth II, a director she had accused of leaking information, resigned immediately, but denied he had violated any confidences.
Mark V. Hurd, the chief executive, will assume the title of chairman when Ms. Dunn steps down. 
 The artfully calibrated agreement came after Hewlett-Packard's board learned that private investigators not only misrepresented themselves to obtain phone records but had also secretly videotaped directors, according to people with knowledge of the company's examination of its private detectives' activities. 
 The California attorney general's office, which has been investigating whether the surveillance violated state laws, said criminal charges could be filed within a week.

A RIVAL STUMBLES -- Things were hardly much better at Hewlett-Packard's rival Dell. The Justice Department said it would join a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation of the company's accounting.
 The widening federal inquiry comes after Dell's shares have lost about a third of their value in the last year, amid shrinking revenue, falling profit and quality-control problems that recently led to the recall of millions of laptop and notebook computers because their defective batteries could overheat and burst into flame. 
 The company's founder and chairman, Michael S. Dell, said the company would add senior managers to help his often-criticized chief executive, Kevin B. Rollins.

A C.E.O. FALLS -- Bristol-Myers Squibb fired its chief executive, Peter R. Dolan, amid a federal investigation of his efforts to suppress the generic version of one of the company's best-selling drugs.
 Bristol-Myers's board acted on the recommendation of an independent monitor who had been overseeing the company as part of the settlement of an earlier scandal involving accounting matters.
 While it mounts a search for a permanent successor to Mr. Dolan, the company said James M. Cornelius, a Bristol-Myers director, would serve as interim chief. Mr. Cornelius was recently interim chief executive of Guidant, the medical device maker, and was crucial to its acquisition by Boston Scientific. 
 The latest controversy involved the blood-thinning drug Plavix, Bristol-Myers's top-selling drug, with sales in the United States of $3.5 billion last year.
 A challenge to the Plavix patent by Apotex, a Canadian maker of generic drugs, is scheduled to be heard in federal court in January.

DRUG TAX CASE -- Another pharmaceutical giant, GlaxoSmithKline, agreed to pay $3.4 billion to settle the largest tax dispute in the history of the Internal Revenue Service.
 Under the settlement, which resolves a dispute over whether and how the federal government should tax transactions between Glaxo's holding company in the United States and its foreign divisions, Glaxo also agreed not to pursue a $1.8 billion income tax refund, the I.R.S. said.
 Federal officials will next help to press a whistle-blower lawsuit that accuses Dey Inc., a California affiliate of the German drug maker Merck KGaA, of defrauding the Medicare program.

FORD BUYOUTS -- The Ford Motor Company accelerated and expanded its efforts to pare its costs and return to profitability. It agreed with the United Automobile Workers union to offer cash and other incentives to persuade 75,000 American workers to quit the company.
 The company also announced further white-collar job cuts, as well as spending reductions and changes in its lineup of car and truck models and brands.
 In January, Ford unveiled its Way Forward turnaround plan, which called for 30,000 job cuts and 14 plant closings by 2012. As the company's position deteriorated -- sales of its best-selling light trucks have been hurt by high gasoline prices, and Ford has lost $1.5 billion so far this year -- it decided to accelerate those cuts and closings.
 Alan R. Mulally, a Boeing executive, will take over as Ford's new chief executive on Oct. 1, succeeding William Clay Ford Jr., great-grandson of the company's founder, Henry Ford.

SOME RELIEF -- Even though crude oil prices have fallen by more than $10 a barrel over the last month, OPEC ministers agreed not to reduce production, a move they might have taken to try to keep prices from falling further or faster.
 While energy prices remain high, they have been falling from the summer peak because of a light hurricane season so far, the cease-fire between Israel and Hezbollah, and the United Nations' decision not to impose sanctions on Iran.
 Even at the recent peak, crude did not rise to $100 a barrel, as some traders had predicted. Still, they said oil markets remained volatile and prices could soar again if hurricanes rake the Gulf Coast, the United Nations imposes sanctions on Iran, or political violence resumes in Nigeria, a major producer. 
 While the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries kept production steady this week, analysts said the OPEC ministers are starting to think about whether to cut output next year.

TRADE RUMBLES -- In one of his first major policy speeches since becoming Treasury secretary this summer, Henry M. Paulson Jr. told Chinese leaders that their nation's future was imperiled by economic policies that Americans and others see as unfair.
 In unusually forceful language, he said China had kept the value of its currency artificially low relative to the dollar, giving it an unfair advantage in global trade by making other nations' goods cost more than they should in China while giving its own exports a price advantage in foreign markets. 
 He also repeated demands that China loosen its controls on foreign investment and on the activities of its own banks.
 The United States, the European Union and Canada may soon file a complaint with the World Trade Organization against China's tariffs on auto part imports, The Wall Street Journal reported.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Sept. 9 through Sept. 15:
 1. The Lonelygirl That Really Wasn't
 2. Philanthropy Google's Way: Not the Usual
 3. Battle Lines in Treating Depression
 4. New at Apple: Smaller iPods, Bigger Ideas
 5. Picking a Picture
 Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., told Chinese leaders this week that their nation's future was endangered by economic policies that Americans see as unfair. (Photo by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); GENERIC DRUGS (89%); TAX LAW (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (85%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (83%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); LITIGATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); TRENDS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); RESIGNATIONS (76%); ESPIONAGE (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); ETHICS (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); SCANDALS (70%); MEDICAL DEVICES (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); ANTICOAGULANTS (66%); FIRES (65%); PRODUCT RECALLS (64%); QUALITY CONTROL (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Ethics; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Biographical Information; Accounting and Accountants; Blood Clots; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Generic and Brand Name Products ; Plavix (Drug); Taxation; Automobiles ; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shutdowns (Institutional); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Boards of Directors; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Securities and Commodities Violations

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (84%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (82%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (81%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (73%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%) Hewlett-Packard Co ; Justice Department; Securities and Exchange Commission; Dell Inc; Bristol-Myers Squibb; Hewlett-Packard Co ; Bristol-Myers Squibb; Glaxosmithkline; Internal Revenue Service; Hewlett-Packard Co ; United Automobile Workers; Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; Hewlett-Packard Co 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (84%); BMY (NYSE) (82%); GSK (NYSE) (81%); GSK (LSE) (81%); BIOC (EGX) (81%); BSX (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (51%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (51%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (51%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (87%); HENRY PAULSON (75%); MICHAEL DELL (54%); JAMES M CORNELIUS (54%) Patricia C Dunn; George A II Keyworth; Peter R Dolen; Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; Mark A Stein; Mark V Hurd

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



333 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Price Rises Moderated In August 

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
What a difference a few weeks make.
 A month ago the economy seemed to be in dire straits -- wedged in by the inflationary pressures of soaring energy prices and rising labor costs while threatened by the prospect that the weak housing market would decimate consumer spending.
 But yesterday, the government reported that consumer prices rose only 0.2 percent in August, pushing annual inflation to 3.8 percent, the lowest since April. Meanwhile, retail sales rose by a respectable rate of 0.2 percent in August. And in September, consumers' confidence about the future increased sharply. 
 The changes largely reflected declining gasoline prices, which not only dragged down inflation but also left consumers with more money. 
 The data suggests pricing pressures may have peaked. To many economists, this means that the Federal Reserve will probably maintain its benchmark interest rate at 5.25 percent at the meeting of its rate-setting committee next week.
 ''The economy appears to be leveling off,'' said Jack Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago. ''My sense is that we will dodge the bullet regarding inflation.''
 There are potential pitfalls on the horizon. A steeper decline in housing prices could slam the brakes on consumer spending and curtail economic growth. 
 But, so far, while the pace of consumer spending has slowed, it is by no means plummeting. 
 ''Supply and demand are more balanced now,'' said Steven Wieting, an economist at Citigroup. 
 For months, the economy has been poised between competing forces pulling in different directions. 
 The economy has slackened, slowed by higher interest rates and a weakening housing market. Yet despite slower growth, energy prices continued to push inflation higher. Wages, which have inched up consistently over the last year, have threatened to put additional pressure on prices. 
 Indeed, the index of core prices, the gauge most closely watched by the Fed, which excludes the unstable prices of food and energy to provide an indication of underlying inflation, rose 2.8 percent in August compared with the year before, the fastest annual pace since November 2001.
 The economic tug of war left the Fed and its chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, in a tight spot. Having increased interest rates by 0.25 percent at each of 17 consecutive meetings since June 2004, the Fed decided last month against tightening monetary policy more. 
 But with core price inflation still way above Mr. Bernanke's stated ''comfort zone'' of 1 to 2 percent, many economists said they were worried that the Fed had stopped too soon.
 If the 1 to 2 percent range ''is a credible forecast, the Fed has to do something about it,'' said Allan H. Meltzer, a professor of political economy and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University. ''We are certainly not moving towards 1 to 2 percent inflation.'' 
 Jeffrey M. Lacker, governor of the Federal Reserve Bank of Virginia, took the unusual step of dissenting, voting against the decision to stop increasing rates at the Fed meeting last month.
 The more benign inflation figures in August appear to support the Fed's stance. Mr. Wieting said energy prices in the price index should also fall steeply in September. That is because the August data referred to prices midmonth and thus missed most of the recent fall in the price of gas, which declined by 30 cents a gallon, to $2.67, from Aug. 21 to Sept. 11.
 Falling gasoline prices are also affecting inflation expectations. According to the University of Michigan's preliminary reading of consumer sentiment, reported yesterday, expectations of inflation one year ahead declined to 3.1 percent from 3.8 percent a month ago.
 Core prices are not likely to follow energy prices down immediately. But they have been moderating. August was the second consecutive month in which core prices rose 0.2 percent, following three months of 0.3 percent inflation. And some prices that have perked up recently will probably abate. For instance, rising clothes prices, which also bolstered core inflation, are mostly a result of the arrival of more expensive fall fashions.
 Rents have also played a big role pushing up prices. The National Association of Realtors expects apartment rents in urban complexes to rise 4.8 percent this year, up from 2.9 percent in 2005. The shelter component in the Consumer Price Index, which makes up more than 40 percent of the core, rose 0.2 percent in August, pushed mostly by higher rents. 
 Some economists argue, however, that rents should moderate eventually, because many condos that were built during the housing boom are now sitting unsold and will probably be converted into rental units.
 And the moderating viewpoint is consistent with other data. Industrial production declined by 0.1 percent in August, according to another government report. Slowing output should ease inflation pressures. 
 ''One of the components of inflation has been commodity prices across the board, from energy to metals,'' said Thomas J. Duesterberg, president and chief executive of the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI. ''We are starting to see some moderation in these prices. That's consistent with the moderation of industrial demand.'' 
 The economic outlook could yet become bleaker. People who bought their homes using adjustable-rate mortgages to keep their monthly payments low are starting to see higher mortgage bills. Some are falling behind on their payments. 
 And many economists suspect that home prices are still likely to fall more steeply. This could decimate residential construction. And it could impair American consumers' ability to borrow and, therefore, to spend.
 ''There's a storm building there,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic Policy Research in Washington.
 But if so, it is further away on the horizon.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Small Relief in Pressure''Spending growth has been steady amid rising prices, but inflation slowed in the last two months, suggesting possible relief for consumers.InflationGraph tracks year-over-year change in the monthly Consumer Price Index since 2004.Excluding food and energyConsumer spendingGraph tracks year-over-year change in monthly personal consumption exenditures and personal income since 2004.(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Bureau of Economic Analysis)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); RETAILERS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); FOOD PRICES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); RETAIL SALES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EXECUTIVES (52%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Behavior; Interest Rates; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (82%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Federal Reserve System

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2006



334 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD: Sept. 17-23; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: THEATER

BYLINE: By Jesse Green

 BODY:

Meant as commercials but treasured as keepsakes, show posters occupy an uncertain aesthetic middle ground. On Sept. 1 the NATIONAL THEATER in Britain colonized that middle ground when it started selling reproductions of artwork covering most of its history, from the 1964 Laurence Olivier-Maggie Smith ''Othello'' to ''Caroline, or Change,'' which opens there next month. The 650 posters available online at www.ntposters.org.uk include some famous images (the Cubist ''Equus'' horse) and some painterly delights (a diaphanous ''Blithe Spirit''), but what's most extraordinary is how workmanlike (in the good sense) they are. With their repeated typography and standardized formats, they might be circulars for fresh produce at a grocer's. They represent a culture of theatrical plenty. 


While Olivier is unnamed and unrecognizable on that ''Othello'' poster, the economic climate of Broadway requires that, if possible, a named and recognizable star (or a helicopter) should dominate the visuals. But noncommercial theaters, which needn't make long-lasting brands out of their limited-run shows, can risk more evocative solutions. Among plays arriving in New York this fall, two stand out for the aptness and loveliness of their artwork.

For the Roundabout's ''Heartbreak House,'' now in previews, the illustrator Scott McKowen engraved a mansion adrift (or is it sinking?) in an oily ocean: Shaw's metaphor for England expanded to suggest a broader human fate. And for ''The Coast of Utopia,'' the Tom Stoppard trilogy playing from October through March at Lincoln Center Theater, Aivazovsky's 1850 shipwreck painting ''The Ninth Wave'' provides the perfect emblem for the folly of rationalism in the face of nature.

As it happens, the best seller at the National Web site depicts another Stoppard play: the 1976 ''Jumpers,'' featuring Diana Rigg. Is it too painful a contrast to note that the all-time champ at Manhattan's Triton Gallery, which has handled Broadway show posters since 1965, is ''Cats''?

GRAPHIC: Photos: The National Theater is selling posters, including those depicting Diana Rigg, center, and Laurence Olivier and Maggie Smith.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



335 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: The Research Budget

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Contrary to the thesis of ''The State of Research Isn't All That Grand'' (Sept. 3), United States government and industry support for research is robust and growing stronger. The president's 2007 budget request for research and development is a record $137 billion, more than 50 percent greater than the 2001 request. Support for the basic research category has increased by 32 percent over that same time. Over all, R.& D. spending (federal and nonfederal) is more than $300 billion, which as much as all other G-8 nations combined. In 2003 and 2004, the two most recent years for which data are available, this spending increased by 5.8 and 6.9 percent, respectively. This exceeds even the healthy G.D.P. growth in these years. 
 Considering the president featured a $136 billion American Competitiveness Initiative in his State of the Union address, and Congressional appropriations committees have already acted favorably on its R.& D. provisions, it is hard to know what to make of the question posed in the article: ''Where will the innovation come from to drive the American economy of the future?'' The innovation will come from the competitive and creative research community that is demonstrably growing at an unprecedented pace to meet the challenges of the future.

Dr. John H. Marburger
Washington, Sept. 8

The writer is the director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (91%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (88%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); WRITERS (73%) Science and Technology; United States Economy; Research; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (57%); OFFICE OF SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY POLICY (54%)

PERSON: John H III Marburger

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



336 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: A Fable, Adapted From Aesop

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
THERE is an Aesop fable about a man -- Greek, of course -- who sees a swallow fluttering about on an unusually warm winter day. Leaping to the conclusion that summer has arrived, the man sells his only coat to buy himself a good time.
 Some economists say you merely need to replace the Greek with an American, and the coat with a house or condominium to understand the force powering the American economy during the recent housing boom. 
In this updated version of the fable, Americans were intoxicated by the leaps in the value of their real estate. Assuming the good times were here to stay, they were unable to resist temptation, impulsively calling the mortgage broker to get another loan to pay for the plasma TV set, the Caribbean vacation and the three-burner barbecue grill. 
 Between the third quarter of 2005 and the first quarter of this year, home equity withdrawals were running at an annual rate of more than $850 billion, according to the Federal Reserve, and amounted to about 9 percent of disposable personal income. The personal savings rate declined into negative territory last year for the first time since 1933. And the economy surged. 
 In Aesop's world, winter set in again, the swallow died and the coatless man blamed the bird for his misfortune: ''By appearing before the springtime you have not only killed yourself,'' he moaned, ''but you have wrought my destruction, too.''
 Yet in American morality tales, it seems, spendthrifts aren't always punished. Winter has surely engulfed the housing market. But to the befuddlement of many economists, who had been expecting consumers to rein in their spending when the price of their homes stopped rising, America's happy consumers have so far eluded the payback. 
 ''There is no sign of weaker consumer confidence raising the savings rate yet,'' wrote Charles Dumas, chief economist for the United States at Lombard Street Research, an economic research firm in London. ''People have not yet started to pull in their horns in response to house price horrors.''
 Home prices have not yet fallen nationwide, but have declined in areas like Florida and California. And most other measures of housing activity look ugly. Sales of existing homes declined 11 percent over the last 12 months; mortgage lending fell more than a third since June 2005; construction of new homes has plummeted.
 But consumers haven't blinked. Spending jumped 0.5 percent in July; the sharpest increase since December of last year, exceeding consumers' income by some $85 billion.
 Of course, rising employment and income this year have helped keep spending afloat. But some economists are starting to question the magnitude of housing's impact on national habits of spending and thrift, concluding that the effect may be smaller than expected: tumbling home prices might not pull consumer spending into the abyss after all. 
 To begin with, much of the money extracted by Americans from their homes was never spent. Some was used to pay down liabilities like credit-card debt, a sound strategy when credit-card rates are about 8 percentage points higher than rates on a typical mortgage and mortgage interest payments can be deducted from income when paying taxes. 
 Money was put to other uses. One survey commissioned by the Federal Reserve of people who refinanced their mortgages in 2001 and the first half of 2002 found that only 45 percent had withdrawn any equity at all. About 26 percent of this money was used to pay down debt, 11 percent to buy stocks or other financial assets, 10 percent to buy real estate or make other business investments and 35 percent to finance home improvements. Only 16 percent of the money was used to finance consumption.
 This doesn't mean that a decline in home equity extraction wouldn't hurt the economy. Residential investment would decline. Consumption would probably respond to declining house prices in indirect ways. 
 But relentless spending and a declining savings rate over the last few years seem mostly driven by other factors that occurred at the same time as rising home prices -- notably, low interest rates -- but were not caused by rising home prices. So the direct impact of falling home prices on spending is likely to be more muted than expected. ''I think the slowdown will come,'' Mr. Dumas said. ''But it is likely to be much more slow in operating than is being supposed.''
 In one recent study, Vladimir Klyuev and Paul S. Mills, two economists from the International Monetary Fund, suggested that the long-term decline in the propensity to save in the United States has to do primarily with financial innovations that have made borrowing easier and quicker, reducing the need for precautionary savings.
 Mr. Klyuev and Mr. Mills untangled the effects of home equity withdrawals on savings from other factors, like inflation and interest rates, and found that for every dollar withdrawn from home equity, the savings rate declined by 20 cents in the short run but recovered in the long run. 
 LOOKING at it the other way around, they found that even if the amount of home equity withdrawal plunged from its current level of 9 percent of disposable income to 1 percent -- its long-term average -- savings as a share of income would rise by about 1.25 percentage points. Consumption might decline somewhat as a result, but that would hardly be a devastating blow. ''There will be a pick-up in savings, but it won't be catastrophic,'' Mr. Mills said. 
 In America, the fable is likely to have a happier ending. It may no longer be the best of times, but consumers still own their homes and their barbecue grills -- and the swallow still lives.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Stuart Goldenberg)Chart: ''Home Sales vs. Spending''The decline in existing-home sales through July was not matched by a fall in consumer spending.Graph tracks annual change in consumer spending and existing home sales from 2001 through July 2006.(Sources by U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, National Association of Realtors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); SAVINGS RATES (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (54%) Housing; United States Economy; Sales; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



337 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Show Them the Money

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WOLFF. 
Michael Wolff is a columnist for Vanity Fair. His most recent book is ''Autumn of the Moguls.''

 BODY:
THE PRICE OF ADMISSION
 How America's Ruling Class Buys Its Way
 Into Elite Colleges -- and Who Gets Left
 Outside the Gates.
 By Daniel Golden.
 323 pp. Crown Publishers. $25.95.
My children's education is my greatest extravagance and, possibly, folly. By the time my son follows his two sisters, God willing, through college, I will have spent $1.7 million on tuition and other unavoidable add-ons (SAT tutors are one pricey add-on) for my kids' fancy schools. 
 In ''The Price of Admission,'' a delicious account of gross inequities in high places, Daniel Golden tells me that I've gotten away cheap. A son of Bill Frist, the Senate majority leader, got into Princeton because the Frist family ''had lavished tens of millions of dollars on a new student center'' there. Margaret Bass, daughter of the oil magnate Robert Bass, got into Stanford after her old man gave the university $25 million. Jessica Zofnass's Harvard-educated father endowed a scholarship in environmental studies around the time of her admission. Charles Kushner, a real estate developer who went to jail for witness tampering and illegal campaign contributions, pledged $2.5 million to Harvard -- Kushner himself went to N.Y.U. -- which did the trick for his son Jared (who recently bought The New York Observer). Golden is distressed by the notion that his book might become a buyer's guide, but his answer to the question ''What's it cost to buy your kid into Harvard?'' seems to be $2.5 mil, plus what you've contributed to politicians, legally or not, so they'll make a follow-up call for you. 
 Golden tells us that the admissions process, at least at the 100 top colleges and universities, is not a meritocracy -- and exactly who thought it was? -- but a marketplace. Every spot is up for bid. Some people bid with intelligence, which has obvious worth to the institution; some with cold cash, with its certain value; and others with the currency of connections and influence and relationships that serve the institution's interests. The ultimate result of trading limited spaces for ever increasing value is Harvard's preposterous endowment of $26 billion. Golden, apparently quite the innocent, is hopping mad about this. If there were any doubt, Golden's muckraking investigation -- he's the Ida Tarbell of college admissions -- reveals that almost every word uttered by representatives of the top colleges about the care and nuance and science of the much vaunted admissions process is bunk. 
 Harvard may say it accepts 1 in 10 applicants, but, Golden writes, as many as 60 percent of the places in a top school are already spoken for by higher bidders, hence reducing, in the parlance, the ''unhooked'' applicant's chances to . . . well, you do the math. Actually, if you do get into a college by merit alone, that may mean there's something wrong with the college. You don't want to be in a club that would have you as a member -- which is the entire marketing credo of America's top schools.
 But back to my $1.7 million. Golden, who went to Harvard, is not objecting to superhuman tuition costs, or even to the fact that lots of people -- my offspring included -- go to expensive private secondary schools (where the same admissions corruption is at work) in order to have a better shot at getting into these 100 top colleges. His focus is the excess on top of the excesses already built into the system. What he's saying is that hard-won privilege should not, damn it, be trumped by greater privilege. 
 While Golden mounts a fire-breathing, righteous attack on the culture of superprivilege, this is also a rather conventionally-minded view of education. He subscribes to the central assumptions about the Ivy League in America. The Ivies, he says, pave your way ''into leadership positions in business and government'' and ''serve as the gateway to affluence and influence in America.'' If this is true, it explains why the Ivy League would turn into a marketplace. How could it not, being of such value and limited supply? But the obvious solution, to make more colleges more equal, is not the case he's arguing. Golden wants some people -- people like himself -- to have access to elite universities.
 This is his other central and unquestioned assumption: If you do well in high school and on your SAT's, then you're the best and the brightest and deserve to be among the elite. 
 The possibility that such performance might mean you too are gaming the system doesn't get in the way of this book's indignation about the rich. That a top high school student may also be among the market's extreme and grotesque creations -- i.e., an adolescent who accepts authority, willingly does absurd amounts of homework, is respectful of his or her college guidance counselor, listens to his or her parents and is a dedicated standardized-test-taker to boot -- doesn't seem to occur to Golden. He's on the side of the upper-middle-class grind and suck-up. 
 This book is, in many ways, a tabloid tale (though it began as a series in The Wall Street Journal, where Golden covers education). The author waves his finger in shocked-shocked fashion at ''left-wing Hollywood movie stars and right-wing tycoons, old-money dynasties and nouveau riche'' who've written checks or pulled connections to get their kids into good schools, naming as many rich kids who can't cut the mustard but who got in anyway as he possibly can. He's got grave conspiracy concerns too: ''Once in college, moreover, these wealthy students are often tapped to join socially exclusive groups -- eating clubs, fraternities, secret societies -- where they hobnob with influential alumni and prospective employers.'' There are even quasi-secret societies for rich parents -- like Harvard's Committee on University Resources, where donors have generally given at least $1 million -- membership in which pretty much ensures admission to your slob of a kid. (Golden does his homework here: ''By examining 'Who's Who' entries, alumni records and other sources, I found that 218 of 424 COUR members, or more than half, have had at least one child at Harvard.'') He rags relentlessly on poor Albert Gore III, whose father sneaked him into Harvard -- and who, believe it or not, smoked pot. (Golden is something of an avenger, exacting retribution for too much wealth and status by dishing about every rich and famous father's kid's lackluster SAT scores.)
 Golden's larger point is about the modern culture of money. He quotes The Economist: ''America is increasingly looking like imperial Britain.'' But he's immune to the greater comedy of manners and so misses a potentially more profound story: the joke may be on us -- not just on the rich, but on everybody who's clawed his way and his kid's way into big-brand colleges. 
 By lots of measures -- say, the great number of perfectly ordinary alma maters of top C.E.O.'s or of Rhodes scholars or of Internet hotshots -- where you go to school arguably matters less now than ever before. (In some ways, it matters in a reverse sense: these days you probably can't get elected president if you went to Harvard; George Bush is president in part because he made himself so anti-Yale.) If you're not a natural salesman or a consummate show-off or possessed with superb people skills in entrepreneurial, show-me-the-money, keep-it-simple-stupid America, you're a zhlub. And these talents may not be so easy to acquire in snobby, self-conscious institutions. The colleges we've eagerly bribed on behalf of our genetic material are most likely not just another part of the market economy, but a bubble market in themselves -- of greatest value to the closed circle of people who pay the money that gives them value. 
 Yeah, we're getting hosed.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Lou Beach)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHILDREN (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); LITERATURE (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); POLITICS (74%); WITNESSES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); REAL ESTATE (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Michael Wolff; Daniel Golden

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



338 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: VENTURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: It's a Good Time To Be a Landlord

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
THE once-sizzling housing market may be rapidly cooling, but not all residential property owners are worried -- especially if they happen to own apartment buildings.
 Landlords are enjoying booming times these days as more people are choosing to rent. Apartment vacancy rates are at five-year lows, averaging 5.6 percent nationwide and only 2.9 percent in the New York metropolitan area, according to the latest data from Reis Inc., a research company. Meanwhile, rents are up nearly 4 percent, on average, over last year, the biggest rise in six years, the company said.
Fewer people have been eager to buy homes lately, in light of lofty prices and higher mortgage rates. What is more, industry analysts say, the supply of rental units is tighter, partly as the result of the conversion of rental apartments to condominiums at the height of the housing surge. And demand is intense as the children of the baby boomers, sometimes called the ''echo boomers,'' move out on their own. 
 ''The apartment landlords have a lot of room to raise rents even more,'' said Louis W. Taylor, a senior real estate analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities, who predicts the industry will continue to thrive in the next 9 to 12 months. (Rents, averaging $1,143 a month for a two-bedroom nationwide, according to Reis, could jump 5 to 9 percent next year, Mr. Taylor said.)
 These strong fundamentals augur well for property owners. Many passive investors (those with little inclination to collect rents themselves) have been profiting, too, by investing in real estate investment trusts that hold large portfolios of multifamily properties and disburse most of their profits as dividends.
 Apartment REIT's are now outperforming all other REIT sectors, after trailing in recent years. In fact, companies that focus on multifamily homes (there are 17 in all) accounted for 10 of the 25 top-performing property REIT's as of last week, according to SNL Financial, a real estate research company. Total returns so far this year through Thursday averaged 34.4 percent, compared with 23.2 percent for all equity REIT's, data from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts showed. 
 So, how long is this robust rally likely to last? While many analysts continue to recommend apartment REIT's, particularly the so-called blue chips like AvalonBay Communities and Archstone-Smith Trust, which are expanding in tighter markets, some have been growing more cautious lately, suggesting that some shares are becoming pricey and may even be overpriced.
 Many share prices, they noted, may reflect speculation that multifamily REIT's, because of their strong cash flow and collection of prized properties, could become takeover targets.
 In the last 12 months alone, three REIT's in the sector have gone private at rich premiums, including Gables Residential Trust, which sold to a unit of ING Clarion Partners in a transaction valued at $2.8 billion. And in a pending deal, BNP Residential Properties announced at the end of August that it had agreed to merge with a unit of Babcock & Brown Real Estate Investments in a transaction valued around $766 million. 
 ''The question now,'' said Ross L. Smotrich, a senior managing director and REIT analyst with Bear, Stearns & Company, ''is whether the REIT's will continue to appreciate or whether there is a downside risk. I think the prognosis is mixed. You have to be selective because of fairly rich valuations.'' 
 Several factors, he and others say, could work against apartment REIT's down the road. Higher construction and labor costs could cut into profits for trusts that develop properties. Demand for rentals could abate if the economy starts to soften and rates of job growth decline, while a sharp increase in supply would raise vacancies. As the for-sale market weakens, some new condominiums and condo conversions could end up in the rental pool, particularly in overbuilt areas like South Florida, Las Vegas and parts of Southern California. 
 ''It will be interesting to see how things in condoland shake out,'' said John J. Kriz, a managing director for real estate finance for Moody's Investors Service, who remains bullish on the apartment rental market. ''It could be good for the renters but bad for those in the rental apartment business.'' 
 For now, analysts think that some apartment owners may be better positioned than others. 
 When it comes to REIT's, Mr. Smotrich favors companies like Archstone-Smith and Camden Property Trust, which have myriad developments in the pipeline, and what he calls ''reasonable valuations.'' The Apartment Investment and Management Company and Post Properties, which has moved into the condo market through conversions and new development, ''have less upside potential,'' he added. 
 Archstone-Smith, whose share price recently hit a 52-week high, has luxury rentals in markets like California and the Northeast and has been steadily expanding its portfolio. Its funds from operations (a financial measure used by REIT's to define operating performance) for the second quarter rose 28 percent from a year earlier.
 In 2005, Archstone-Smith spent $2.5 billion to acquire apartment communities, including the purchase of a $1.6 billion portfolio from Oakwood Worldwide, one of the largest providers of corporate housing. And this summer, it acquired, among other things, a seven-building apartment complex in San Mateo, Calif., and a high-rise building in San Francisco, while also breaking ground recently on several developments, including the Archstone Clinton in Manhattan's West Side. 
 Camden Property, which started out in Texas and has focused on the Sun Belt states, has been expanding nationally as well. ''The Sun Belt tends to be volatile, and our sense is Camden knows how to operate in those markets,'' Mr. Smotrich added. 
 Mr. Taylor has ''buy'' recommendations on Archstone-Smith and Camden Properties, along with a handful of other apartment REIT's, including AvalonBay and BRE Properties, which also focus on high-end rentals in pricey markets. 
 AvalonBay, whose share price recently hit a 52-week high, has seen its per-share funds from operation increase by 6.2 percent in the second quarter. The company has 17 apartment rental communities under construction, including Avalon Bowery Place in Manhattan, a 206-unit project slated for completion early next year.
 ''We have more under construction now than we ever have had,'' said Bryce Blair, the chairman and chief executive of AvalonBay, adding that he was not worried about an eventual oversupply. For one thing, he said, high construction costs have kept new development in check. ''It's difficult to build apartments today,'' he said, ''and on top of that, long-term factors are in our favor.''
 DEMAND remains strong because of the high prices for condos and houses, Mr. Blair said, noting that occupancy rates in AvalonBay properties now average 96.5 percent, up from 95.7 percent at the same time last year, and with far fewer concessions (like free rent for a month) than last year. Even those who could afford to buy are finding more value through renting right now, he said, adding that AvalonBay apartments provided many high-end amenities. 
 R. Scot Sellers, chairman and chief executive of Archstone-Smith, where vacancy rates companywide are also around 96 percent, agreed. ''With the reduced appeal of the condo market, more and more of our clients want to rent rather than buy,'' he said. ''There are neighborhoods where housing prices have tripled in the last five to seven years,'' while rents have gone up only modestly. 
 Mr. Sellers, meanwhile, dismissed conjecture that the apartment sector was overvalued, saying that share prices were ''still below the value of the assets.'' The prices of those REIT's taken private, although rich, show their true value, he added. 
 Both he and Mr. Blair, though, predicted that the sector would continue to consolidate through future acquisitions. ''There may be fewer players, but bigger ones,'' Mr. Blair said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: There are 250 units in the Avalon Mission Bay in San Francisco. (Photo by Whitaker Photography)
The 265-unit Archstone Chelsea in New York was acquired last year. (Photo by Archstone-Smith Trust)
 The Archstone Boston Common includes many luxury amenities. (Photo by Archstone-Smith Trust)Chart: ''Low Vacancy''Apartment vacancy rates are at five-year lows, while rents are up 4 percent in 2006.Rental apartment properties*Graphs track total vacancies and effective cost of rent+ (annual percentage change) from 2002 through projected 2006.*In complexes of 40 or more apartments (20 or more in California and Arizona).+Asking rent minus any concessions offered by landlords in the form of free rent.(Source by Reis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CITIES (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); GENERATION Y (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%) Housing; Renting and Leasing; Landlords

COMPANY: REIS INC (72%); ARCHSTONE INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (55%)

TICKER: REIS (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



339 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Tools of Running a Business, at Tag-Sale Prices

BYLINE: By BOBBI DEMPSEY

 BODY:
WHEN Tricia Ballad of Bloomington, Ill., started her Web hosting business, Hosting SPOC, in April, she had lots of motivation but little cash. Fortunately, she also had great research skills, so she discovered a wealth of free and low-cost services available to business owners, entrepreneurs and independent professionals.
 Ms. Ballad was able to get a toll-free business line for $2 a month through a service called Kall8. ''As far as office equipment and supplies, computers are dirt cheap now, especially online,'' she said. ''We use a site called PriceWatch to price out new computers.''
As Ms. Ballad discovered, a small budget need not be a problem for new businesses and aspiring entrepreneurs who need office supplies and services. These days, a number of companies specialize in providing cheap (or even free) services to businesses. 
 EVoice, like Kall8, provides toll-free numbers and voicemail to businesses for a few dollars a month. For fax needs, there are services like eFax, which allow customers to receive faxes free, with a small charge for premium services like a local fax number and the ability to send faxes as well. Such low-cost services are especially beneficial to small start-ups or home-based businesses that may have limited resources but still want to present a professional image. There is usually no way for a client to tell if your fax is arriving from a free online service, or a fully staffed administrative team. 
 One important and immediate need of any business today is establishing an online presence with a Web site and domain name. There are now many ways to do this on the cheap. Many hosting services throw in domain registration free with an account. Companies like Homestead Technologies provide services -- starting at less than $10 a month -- that allow customers to put together their own site quickly without any programming skills or design experience. 
 Yahoo also offers many cheap business services, like hosting packages starting at $12 a month, which includes free domain registration and the ability to start a blog using two popular blogging programs. Yahoo Search Marketing is available to small businesses for a minimum of only $5. For $40 a month, Yahoo Merchant Solutions offers an e-commerce package that includes a storefront, payment processing, order management and other capabilities. 
 VistaPrint -- an online store where customers can design and order business cards, brochures and other printed materials -- is popular with budget-conscious professionals. You can even get business cards free, if you don't mind a VistaPrint logo on the back -- or spend a few dollars more for the logo-free versions. Latashia DeVeaux, founder of the DeVeaux Agency, a public relations firm in North Hollywood, Calif., is a big VistaPrint fan. ''I've used them so often, I've earned lots of bonus coupons,'' she said. 
 When it comes to starting a business on a shoestring, creativity and ingenuity can be a huge help. Ms. Ballad saved money by trading services with other businesses. ''We had our legalese written by a wonderful attorney, and in exchange we did her search engine optimization,'' she said. ''We're both happy, and cash flow is untouched.'' 
 Kim Francis also barters for services. Ms. Francis, of Columbus, Ohio, started her consulting business, KAF Enterprises, in 1997 with virtually no start-up money. ''I bartered with a local printing company for paper,'' she said. ''I joined all the small-biz organizations I could, and we all bartered with each other for services. For example, a local I.S.P. hosted my Web site and my husband did tech support for them, and a Web design firm did my Web sites and my client's Web site at a huge discount, and in exchange I did their brochures and my husband did their bookkeeping.''
 Tony Wright, vice president for client services at Kinetic Results, a marketing and advertising company, says ingenuity went a long way in helping the company get off the ground in late 2005. Mr. Wright and several of his former co-workers had all found themselves unemployed at the same time, so they banded together to form their own company. 
 They had the brains and the background, but lacked a big bankroll. ''We found that raising capital with no clients and just your reputation is difficult at best,'' he said. ''We all scraped our savings together and began hitting the pavement. Our first office was a room at the Homewood Suites in Addison, Tex., where we strategized on long pieces of paper bought from Kinko's and taped to the wall because we didn't have a white board.'' 
 The enterprising group soon heard of an office available nearby. ''The room was about 11 by 15, and three of us worked there for three months,'' Mr. Wright said. ''We used all our own computers and got business cards from an online printer that put a special protective coating on them. These cards could literally be held underwater and not get wet.'' 
 The group called in lots of favors and continued to work on establishing the company, soon landing their first client while still based in their tiny office. 
 ''Finally, we landed some big clients and are now in our present larger space in Addison,'' Mr. Wright said. ''We are still very budget-conscious -- we have VoIP phones that don't work well, all our furniture is from Ikea and we moved into an 'as is' situation and fixed the place up ourselves -- but we are doing well.'' The company has just opened its second office, in New York City. 
 James Hills relied on the same entrepreneurial spirit after quitting his job last year. He and his wife, Heather, decided to start their own business, MarketingHelpNet.com, which helps small-business owners market themselves. Mr. Hills, located in Bartlett, Ill., made an office from a former storage room, and built his desk into a closet, giving him an extra few feet of valuable work space. ''Also, I am using Vonage for both my fax and voice, which is great because of free long-distance to Europe and low costs to Asia for some of my contractors,'' he said, referring to the broadband provider that uses ''voice over Internet protocol'' to offer phone and online connections. 
 Some businesses do not actually need a fancy physical space, but would like clients to envision them working in a professional environment. In this case, a virtual office like those offered by Micro Office Solutions can help. With this service, businesses receive a business phone number -- answered by a receptionist -- plus voicemail and a company mailing address. In many cases, this is a desirable address, perhaps on Park Avenue in New York. The mail is then forwarded to the business's actual location. Companies like The Regus Group offer several virtual-office packages, including some that include access to furnished offices, conference rooms and other facilities for occasions like client meetings. 
 FURNISHED-OFFICE companies like Sunshine Suites can help businesses that need a full-time location, but can't afford a traditional office. For less than $300 a month (with no long-term commitments) you can rent a private cubicle at one of Sunshine's locations in New York. The rent includes business essentials like Internet access, technical support, printers and office equipment and other amenities. For $700 a month, you can get an entire private office. 
 Bottom line: do your homework, and odds are you can find bargains or freebies for almost every office essential you need to get your business off the ground.
 ''With some creativity and research, you can run a small officeefficiently without much money,'' Ms. Francis said. ''And your clients will never know the difference.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tricia and Bill Ballad, shown with their son, Alex, were able to find low-cost equipment to start up their business, which they run out of their home in Bloomington, Ill. (Photo by Marie-Susanne Langille for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); DATA PROCESSING SERVICES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); DOMAIN NAMES (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (76%); HOME BASED BUSINESSES (73%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (65%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (64%); RETAILERS (64%) Small Business; Computers and the Internet; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Entrepreneurship

COMPANY: VISTAPRINT NV (51%)

TICKER: VPRT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (51%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (51%)

PERSON: Bobbi Dempsey

GEOGRAPHIC: BLOOMINGTON, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



340 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ON THE CONTRARY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: The Good News About Oil Prices Is the Bad News

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST. 
Daniel Akst is a journalist and novelist who writes often about business. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE bad news about energy just keeps coming. Oil prices have fallen sharply since July. Nuclear tensions with Iran and Alaskan pipeline troubles haven't caused an upward spike. A weakening real estate market and other possible harbingers of recession suggest that oil demand -- and therefore prices -- could erode even further.
 Finally, in something like the coup de grace, Chevron and its partners announced a new oil discovery in the Gulf of Mexico, one that could increase America's oil reserves by as much as 50 percent. 
What's that you say? You think this sounds like good news rather than bad? You figure cheaper oil would boost economic growth while slashing the income of such lovable oil exporters as Iran?
 Don't kid yourself. Anything that reinforces the role of fossil fuels -- particularly oil -- as the industrial world's primary energy source is bad, not good. Anything that prolongs the life of the internal combustion engine is a negative, not a positive. Anything that makes it cheaper to pump greenhouse gases into the atmosphere is cause for mourning rather than celebration.
 What we need is not lower oil prices but higher ones -- significantly higher, enough to deter consumption and make us look seriously at alternatives. 
 Of course, it would be nice not to have to rely on cartels and circumstances to make us moderate our consumption. Hefty taxes on carbon-based energy, the proceeds of which could fuel research into nonfossil alternatives, would be a much better approach, since then at least we'd be paying ourselves instead of our friends at the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. As a bonus for saving the planet, we might even undermine the intolerance and autocracy that are abetted in many places by oil money.
 The sad fact is that just as oil is the lifeblood of Western economies, oil revenue often is the lifeblood of tyranny. Oil-rich regimes that trample the rights of women, finance terrorism and preach intolerance are sustained by what we spend on gasoline and heating oil. The unfortunate paradox is that moderating oil prices, while they may reduce the earnings of despots in the short run, will only support our harmful addiction -- and the power of those same despots -- in the long run.
 If that were the only bad thing resulting from lower oil prices, it would be sufficient. Ah, but there's so much more. Lower oil prices would promote more driving, for instance, a dismal outcome that would increase air pollution and, in all likelihood, highway fatalities. More than 43,000 people were killed on United States roads last year, and 2.7 million were injured. Many thousands die annually from airborne pollutants as well.
 Then there's sprawl. Cheaper gas will mean more far-flung, automobile-dependent communities. That will bring more driving still, which will result in even more pollution and accidents. This is to say nothing of the health effects associated with driving everywhere instead of walking.
 All that driving brings us back to global warming. Fossil fuels are implicated in what appears to be significant human-induced climate change. Everyone I know professes to worry about this, but let's face it: nothing but drastically higher prices will deter most of us from consuming more carbon-based energy. Meanwhile, oil prices remain distressingly low. Adjusted for inflation, remember, prices peaked some 25 years ago.
 HIGHER prices have worked wonders before. Today, Americans can generate a dollar of gross domestic product using just half the energy required in 1973, that watershed year of the oil embargo and lines at gas stations. In countries where energy is more expensive, a dollar of G.D.P. requires considerably less energy still. Unlike a tax, moreover, higher prices have the advantage of applying all over the world, to everyone.
 The burden of higher oil prices, unfortunately, will fall most heavily on the world's poor -- but then again, so would the burden of climate change. And surely the poor would benefit from technologies that provide alternatives to fossil fuels. 
 The good news, meanwhile, is that many of the world's poor are joining the middle class, so that they too can drive everywhere and enjoy air-conditioning when they arrive. Perhaps their newfound affluence will do us the favor of driving up oil prices before it's too late.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christophe Vorlet)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); AIR POLLUTION (87%); HEATING OIL (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); CARTELS (73%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); CLIMATE CHANGE (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (73%); AIR POLLUTANTS (72%); WOMEN (72%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); TERRORISM (61%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; Reserves (Natural Resources)

ORGANIZATION: Chevron Corp

PERSON: Daniel Akst

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); ALASKA, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



341 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 10608 words

HEADLINE: The Battle for Guantanamo

BYLINE: By Tim Golden. 
Tim Golden, an investigative reporter for The Times, has been writing about terrorism and detention issues since 2004.

 BODY:
 and control. This is the story of that struggle, and of one colonel's attempt 
 to bring an end to it.
1. A Warning From Shaker Aamer
 Col. Mike Bumgarner took over as the warden of Guantanamo Bay in April 2005. He had been hoping to be sent to Iraq; among senior officers of the Army's military police corps, the job of commanding guards at the American detention camp in Cuba was considered not particularly challenging and somewhat risky to a career. He figured it would mean spending at least a year away from his family, managing the petty insurgencies of hundreds of angry, accused terrorists.
''Is this what I went to bed at night thinking about?'' he would ask nearly a year later, as he whacked at mosquitoes on a muggy Cuban night. ''No.'' 
 Bumgarner, then 45, received his marching orders from the overall commander of the military's joint task force at Guantanamo, Maj. Gen. Jay W. Hood. A few weeks earlier, General Hood dispatched the previous head of his guard operation and two other senior officers for fraternizing with female subordinates. He was known as a flinty, detail-oriented boss with low tolerance for bad judgment, and his instructions to the colonel were brief: He should keep the detainees and his guards safe, Bumgarner says Hood told him. He should prevent any escapes. He should also study the Third Geneva Convention, on the treatment of prisoners of war, and begin thinking about how to move Guantanamo more into line with its rules.
 It had been three years since President Bush declared that the United States would not be bound by any part of the Geneva treaties in dealing with prisoners in the fight against terrorism. He ordered that American forces treat captives in ways ''consistent'' with the conventions but hadn't explained what that meant. Now, Bumgarner thought, the mandate seemed to be shifting a little. He was being asked to get more specific.
 In the cramped bungalow headquarters of his Joint Detention Operations Group at Guantanamo, Bumgarner had his operations officer look up the conventions on the Internet and print out a copy. After nearly 24 years as a military police officer, Bumgarner knew the document well. He thought it obvious that many of the rights would never apply to Guantanamo detainees. No one was going to allow the distribution of ''musical instruments'' to suspected terrorists, as the 1940's-era conventions stipulated for the captured soldiers of another army. No one was going to pay the detainees a stipend to spend at a base canteen.
 But the assignment was more complicated than just cutting and pasting where he could. On some level, Bumgarner thought, he was being asked to weigh how far the military should go to improve the lives of prisoners whom the president and his aides had labeled some of the most dangerous terrorists alive. Or, as the colonel put it to me during our first conversation at Guantanamo in March: ''How do you deal with an individual whom the president of the United States and the secretary of defense have called the worst of the worst?''
 At that point, in the spring of 2005, he had little time to consider an answer. Tensions in the camp were surging, as the detainees tested a fresh rotation of Army and Navy guards. Of the 530 prisoners then being held at Guantanamo, most were classified as ''noncompliant.'' The two segregation blocks, which held prisoners who had assaulted guards, were full. So were two other blocks where detainees were sent for lesser infractions. ''People were in a waiting pattern to get in and serve their time there,'' Bumgarner said. 
 In older parts of the camp, the detainees would sometimes bang for hours on the steel mesh of their cells, smashing out a beat that rattled up over the razor wire into the thick, tropical air. Occasionally they would swipe at the guards with metal foot pads ripped from their squat-style toilets, declassified military reports say. The detainees rarely tried to fashion the sort of shanks or knives made by violent prisoners in the United States. But they did manage to unnerve and incite the young guards, often by splattering them with mixtures of bodily excretions known on the blocks as ''cocktails.''
 By the time Bumgarner took command at Guantanamo, information had emerged to suggest that many of the detainees were not, in fact, the hardened terrorists whom Pentagon officials had claimed to be holding there. Bumgarner did not doubt that his new prisoners were dangerous, but neither was he wary of getting to know them better. As he walked the blocks in Camp Delta, the fenced-in core of the prison, he soon began trying to engage some of the more influential detainees.
 Military and C.I.A. analysts had been studying the Guantanamo population since the camp opened in January 2002. They observed that there were detainee spokesmen, who tended to speak English, and religious leaders, or ''sheiks,'' who issued opinions on questions of Islamic law. There was also a more hidden cadre, whose leadership the analysts defined as ''political'' or, when they could direct the protests of others, ''military.'' Nonetheless, there was much debate over who the most important leaders were, intelligence officials later told me. Like most guard officers before him, Bumgarner gravitated toward those who spoke English. 
 His ambitions were modest. ''I was looking for a way, with what General Hood was wanting, just to have a peaceful camp,'' he recalled recently. He said his initial message to the detainees was ''Look, I'm willing to give you things, to make life better for ya, if y'all will reciprocate.'' What he asked in return was ''Just do not attack my guards.''
 Bumgarner considered himself a take-charge, solve-the-problem kind of commander. A big, balding, garrulous man who speaks with a faint Carolina drawl and carries his 250 pounds easily on a 6-foot-2-inch frame, he grew up the son of a career Army sergeant in a family where military service was proudly taken for granted. In high school in Kings Mountain, N.C., a small town in the Blue Ridge foothills, he played quarterback for the football team and applied to West Point at his father's urging. He quit the academy after only a few months but joined the R.O.T.C. to help pay his way through Western Carolina University. At Guantanamo, he was one of those officers who seemed to relish calling out, ''Honor bound!'' (shorthand for the camp motto, ''Honor bound to defend freedom''), when a soldier saluted. Saying goodbye, he favored ''Hoo-rah'' over ''See you later.''
 But that image could be deceiving. Before deploying to Cuba, Bumgarner oversaw the development of detention doctrine at the Army's Military Police School at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. Like many military police officers, he had been deeply embarrassed when the Abu Ghraib scandal erupted in May 2004 and was determined to see its legacy undone. ''We were not going to let that happen to us,'' he said.
 At Guantanamo, Bumgarner moved quickly to try to reduce tensions in the camp. If the detainees wanted clocks on the cellblock walls, he saw no reason they shouldn't have them. In response to endless complaints from the detainees about their tap water, he persuaded Hood to approve the distribution of bottled water at mealtimes. The only stocks available were the soldiers' own, bottled with a stars-and-stripes label under the vanity brands Patriot's Choice and Freedom Springs. To avoid any problems, guards were ordered to peel off the labels before they passed out the bottles.
 The detainees did not respond as the military authorities hoped. In late June 2005, two months after Bumgarner took command, some prisoners went on a hunger strike, calling for better living conditions, more respectful treatment of the Koran by guards and -- most important -- fair trials or freedom. Although it was hardly the first such protest, the camp's medical staff worried about the unusually large number of prisoners involved. 
 Soon after the strike began, Bumgarner was alerted to a disturbance in Camp Echo, an area of more isolated cells on the eastern edge of the detention center. The problem was with a 38-year-old Saudi named Shaker Aamer. The colonel had not previously encountered Aamer, but he was already familiar with the legend of detainee No. 239 -- the one his guards called the Professor. They marveled at his English, which was eloquent, and his presence, which was formidable. Some intelligence officials said they believed he had been an important Qaeda operative in London, where he lived and married before moving to Afghanistan in the summer of 2001. (Aamer has denied having anything to do with Al Qaeda or terrorism.)
 The colonel's immediate concern was that Aamer was giving his guards fits, pressing one of the sporadic civil disobedience campaigns for which he was famous. ''I finally said: 'That's it! I'm gonna go down to talk to him myself.''' As Bumgarner remembers it, he burst into the small, hospital-white room as Aamer sat on his bunk, fuming behind the painted mesh that caged him into one corner. ''You're either gonna start complying with the rules,'' Bumgarner recalls warning him, ''or life's gonna get really rough.'' The colonel said he did not mean to threaten physical force, only to emphasize strongly that Aamer's few privileges -- like, say, his use of a toothbrush -- hung in the balance.
 Aamer, who wore a thick black beard and had his hair pulled back in a ponytail, was unimpressed. The prisoner, who was not wearing his glasses, squinted for a moment, trying to read the officer's insignia. ''Colonel,'' he finally said, ''don't come in here giving me that.''
 As Bumgarner settled into a white plastic chair, Aamer crossed his legs on the bunk and began to talk about his life. He spoke about his family, his travel to Afghanistan, his feelings about the United States. He told of working as an interpreter for American troops in Saudi Arabia during the first gulf war, and of later working at a coffee shop outside Atlanta.
 ''I got the impression that he was hanging around in clubs, drinking,'' Bumgarner told me. ''He loved women. But he said he had realized the error of his ways.'' Aamer had a revelation, he told the colonel, ''that this life of running around with women and boozing it up was the wrong path.''
 ''It was part of his charisma, that drawing me in,'' Bumgarner said later. ''He became a person.''
 Much of the conversation centered on Aamer's thoughts on the detention operation and what could be done to improve it. The Saudi's ideas, it seemed, were perhaps not so far from Hood's. ''His implication was that if you applied the Geneva Conventions fully, everything would be just fine in the camps,'' Bumgarner recalled.
 After almost five hours, Aamer asked the colonel if he had made someone very angry. ''Otherwise, you wouldn't be in Guantanamo.
 ''Nobody survives Guantanamo,'' he added. ''You won't survive, either.''

II. A Permanent Place
 As part of the military's standard tour of Guantanamo, visitors are driven to the end of a two-lane road that winds up to the northeast corner of the naval base on which the prison sits. They pause there on a small hill overlooking a locked gate that leads into Fidel Castro's part of the island. The tour guide, usually a young Marine corporal with a black Beretta pistol strapped to his thigh, then recounts a brief history of Communist efforts to drive the American forces away.
 At one point, the corporal says, the Cubans tried to cut off the Americans' water supply. They trained floodlights on an American guardhouse to keep the soldiers inside from getting any sleep. But such annoyances were merely that. The United States never surrendered an inch of the 45 square miles it has occupied under a disputed lease since 1903, following the Spanish-American War. ''We're not as big a presence as we once were,'' one tour guide, Cpl. Denis R. Espinoza, who is 22, said earlier this year. ''But we're still here, and we're going to stay.'' 
 In the Land of Unsubtle Metaphors that is Guantanamo Bay, the message of the tour is transparent: the United States fought a dangerous, implacable enemy here once before, in another war that seemed without end. Had we not held our ground then, the argument goes, the world might now be a darker place.
 Despite the intense criticism it has drawn, the detention camp at Guantanamo has proved one of the more resilient institutions of the Bush administration's fight against terror. It has weathered a 2004 Supreme Court decision that allows prisoners to challenge their detention in the federal courts. Scandals over the abuse of the detainees have come and gone, but Guantanamo has endured.
 When President Bush announced broad changes in policies for the detention and prosecution of terror suspects on Sept. 6, he said the government ''will move toward the day when we can eventually close the detention facility at Guantanamo Bay.'' But by sending 14 important C.I.A. captives there and pushing to try prisoners before reconstituted military tribunals, he appeared to be extending the life of the detention center for the foreseeable future. Even if many more detainees are sent home and dozens are tried, administration officials acknowledged, the United States could easily end up with 150 or 200 others whom it would want to hold indefinitely and without charge. As to how the military should treat such men, Washington offered only the most general guidance. 
 What impact the C.I.A.'s prisoners might have on the camp's operations is unclear. Already, though, Guantanamo has been the scene of an extraordinary struggle between the detainees and their guards. Only a few episodes of this conflict have come to light, like the suicides of three prisoners in June. But what has hardly been glimpsed is the dynamic that developed as military officers tried to deal more closely with the detainees, easing the harsh conditions in which they have been held and asking for compliance in return. 
 This article presents a view inside the prison based on interviews with more than 100 military and intelligence officials, guards, former detainees and others. It shows that as pressure built among the prisoners and some threatened even to kill themselves in protest, Bumgarner and other guard officers -- acting as much on instinct as policy -- took surprising steps to contain the upheaval. 
 That experiment illuminates the challenge the United States faces in continuing to detain indefinitely some 460 men at Guantanamo, only 10 of whom have been formally charged with crimes. Perhaps not surprisingly, the military has sought to keep what has taken place there under wraps. Asked recently about his dealings with the detainees and those of his staff officers, General Hood would respond only through an Army spokesman, saying, ''Operational security precludes any public discussions that could potentially jeopardize the lives of detainees or the security force at Guantanamo.''
 Rather than making Guantanamo go away, the administration has tried to make it smaller and less objectionable. The ruins of Camp X-Ray, the provisional facility where the first prisoners were held in cages, are slowly being swallowed by the jungle. Tour guides display them as proof of Guantanamo's progress. Inside the existing camp, a barricaded precinct of the quaint, 50's-era naval base where off-duty soldiers play softball and stop to eat at McDonald's, the guides point out Camp 6, a new $30 million facility modeled after a county jail in southern Michigan.
 But the detainees have long memories, and the portraits drawn by those who have been released -- sometimes horrific, often impossible to verify -- have shaped global perceptions in ways that the Bush administration has been unable to overcome. Their stories have been set down in books, films, plays and raps, most of which depict an Orwellian world that is by turns brutal, calculated and inept.
 ''Every country has its own way of torturing people,'' Rustam Akhmiarov, a 26-year-old Russian who was arrested in Pakistan and ended up in Guantanamo, told me after his release. ''In Russia, they beat you up; they break you straightaway. But the Americans had their own way, which is to make you go mad over a period of time. Every day they thought of new ways to make you feel worse.''
 Over the last two years, human rights groups and the International Red Cross have noted some improvements. Hood said that the use of more extreme interrogation methods was curtailed within months of his taking command, around the time that the Abu Ghraib scandal became public. Yet the larger questions that indefinite detention at Guantanamo raises -- how to forestall the radicalization of the detainees; how to control men who have only the slimmest hope of freedom -- have never been resolved by senior policy makers. They have been left to military officers on the ground.

III. Out of the Dark Ages
 As Colonel Bumgarner landed at Guantanamo in April 2005, he sensed that the military was in the midst of what he called ''sort of an effort to normalize things.'' The Pentagon wanted to streamline the guard operation as part of a push toward a more modern, less labor-intensive detention facility. It also wanted to present a more humane face to the world. Both goals required lowering the level of conflict within the camp.
 After his first briefing from Hood, Bumgarner put the printout of the Geneva Conventions on his desk and left it there. ''I had my staff look at it,'' he said. ''For me, it was the only black-and-white piece of something that I could reach out and grab for guidance.''
 At that point, White House officials were still opposed to adopting even the most basic Geneva standard for the treatment of prisoners, a provision that bans ''outrages upon personal dignity, in particular humiliating and degrading treatment.'' Bumgarner considered such issues above his pay grade. He tried to deal with the detainees man to man. ''Human beings are human beings,'' he said in one of a series of conversations. ''I always think that I can deal with anybody. I feel like dialogue can't hurt.''
 Weeks before he would meet the Saudi prisoner Shaker Aamer, Bumgarner came across a tall, wild-eyed detainee who was screaming at the guards in British-accented English. It wasn't clear what his problem was, but when the colonel asked, the man quickly calmed down. ''You are creating these problems by the way you are treating us,'' the prisoner said.
 A day or two later, Bumgarner had guards deliver the man to Juliet block, a small, fenced-in courtyard beside his command center where Red Cross representatives meet with detainees at aluminum picnic tables. He asked a guard to uncuff the prisoner's hands. ''It puts them in a much better mood to talk to you,'' the colonel explained.
 Prisoner No. 590, Ahmed Errachidi, was a handsome 39-year-old Moroccan who spent 17 years in London. He worked as a chef at a string of restaurants, including the Hard Rock Cafe, before traveling to Afghanistan after the United States began bombing the country in October 2001. The military authorities accused him of belonging to a radical Moroccan Islamist group and training at a Qaeda camp in Afghanistan, charges that his lawyers have disputed. Intelligence officials told me they did not consider him a high-value detainee and noted that he had been hospitalized for manic depression. But the guards, impressed by his influence and sense of self-importance, had nicknamed him the General.
 Errachidi seemed rather surprised to be sitting down with the commander of the detention group, Bumgarner told me. But in that meeting on June 6 and a second, longer one two days later, Errachidi seized the chance to inventory the prisoners' grievances: The water was foul, he said, and the food terrible. The detainees were angry about the guards' habit of walking loudly through the cellblocks at prayer times and even angrier that ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' sometimes played over distant naval-base loudspeakers during or right after the evening call to prayer.
 The General ''kept talking about 'the dark ages,''' Bumgarner would later recall. The prisoner complained, for example, that the guards often referred to the detainees in demeaning ways, calling out when they were moving a prisoner that they had ''a package'' ready.
 ''We are not 'packages,''' Errachidi told the colonel. ''We are human beings.'' 
 After the first meeting, Bumgarner received a piece of paper from a guard. It was a drawing by Errachidi, a sort of map. In one corner, it showed a shaded area labeled ''the Dark Ages.'' From there, a path wound through a thicket of obstacles. They had labels like ''No 'packages,''' ''Better food'' and ''Turn the lights down.'' At the end of the path, Errachidi had drawn what looked like an oasis, with water and palm trees.
 Back at Bumgarner's command center, some of his staff officers wondered about the wisdom of trying to solve such complaints. They were used to their commanders walking the blocks and occasionally speaking to prisoners; they were not accustomed to sit-downs. Nor did they see why they should be the ones to pick through the Geneva provisions and suggest whether the detainees might be entitled to elect their own representatives or attend educational programs.
 ''We're the guys on the ground,'' the detention group's former operations officer, Maj. Joseph M. Angelo, told me not long ago. ''So why was I making recommendations on what portions of the Geneva Conventions we should implement? That just struck me as kind of weird.''
 Still, the unease of Bumgarner's staff did not compare with the reaction he got from the intelligence side of the Guantanamo task force. There had long been tension between the two military units, but this time members of the Joint Intelligence Group ''were furious,'' one staff officer recalled. There were few privileges to give out at Guantanamo, this officer and others said, and interrogators felt they should be the ones to dispense them -- in return for cooperation from the detainees.
 Before he deployed to Cuba, Bumgarner's military police superiors had been emphatic that he should stick to his responsibilities and leave his counterparts in military intelligence to their interrogations and analysis. Bumgarner wasn't worried about stepping out of his lane. ''I run the camps,'' he said.
 Bumgarner set about trying to solve the problems he saw. He instructed members of the guard force to stop referring to the detainees as ''packages.'' On compliant blocks, he had guards start turning down the lights between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m. and stop moving prisoners during those hours to allow the detainees to sleep. To avoid disturbing their prayers, he ordered guards to place yellow traffic cones spray-painted with a ''P'' in the cellblock halls at prayer times. He asked his aides to see that ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' recording would be played at least three minutes before the call to prayer.
 Another of Bumgarner's senior staff officers, Maj. Timothy O'Reilly, a reservist who is a lawyer in civilian life, began to recognize some of what he was seeing from jails and prisons in the United States. ''The ultimate nirvana for anybody in law enforcement or corrections is compliance,'' he said earlier this year. ''In order to run an effective prison, you need to have people comply with your orders, and that's no different from the smallest jail to the biggest high-security prison.''
 But Guantanamo was clearly unlike other prisons in one important respect: The detainees found much less incentive to obey the rules. To some, exile to the discipline or segregation blocks was a source of status and pride, military intelligence officials said. And the punishments were limited. Striking or spraying urine on a guard brought 30 days' segregation, the maximum length of any punishment under Geneva rules. There was no such thing as getting a few more years tacked on to your sentence.
 In an American prison, O'Reilly and others noted, an inmate could be a sworn enemy of the prison authorities, respected among other prisoners, and still try to ''run a good program'' -- avoiding trouble in an effort to reduce his time behind bars. At Guantanamo, compliance with the rules brought only prayer beads, packets of hot sauce, a slightly thicker mattress. It would not bring early parole.
 Former detainees I met insisted that their defiance was provoked not only by their despair over their uncertain futures but also by unnecessarily harsh and arbitrary treatment from the guards. ''If people's basic human rights were respected, I don't think they would have had any of these problems,'' said Abdul Salam Zaeef, a former Taliban cabinet minister and ambassador to Pakistan who was the pre-eminent leader of Afghan prisoners at Guantanamo before his release in the late summer of 2005. ''There were no rules and no law. Any guard could do whatever they wanted to do.''
 Like other small, insular groups that live at the mercy of a more powerful force, the detainees have woven intricate, conspiratorial theories about their fate. In a closed world where prayer gives structure to daily life and the Koran is the one possession guards are never supposed to take away, prisoners were acutely sensitive to any perceived disrespect for their faith. But there were many other grievances. Some former detainees told me that early on, they were injected at Guantanamo with psychotropic drugs, a claim that military officials denied. Later, detainees continued to suspect hidden agents of social control in everything from the cloudy tap water to the configuration of their cells.
 ''Those blocks are designed so that you will not rest,'' says Mohammed al-Daihani, a government accountant from Kuwait who was sent home last November. ''There is metal everywhere. If anyone drops anything, you hear it. If anyone shouts or talks loudly, it disturbs everyone. If there is a problem at the other end of the block, you cannot possibly rest. After two or three weeks, you think you will lose your mind.''
 Although the detainees came from diverse backgrounds and more than three dozen countries, there was only one real prison gang at Guantanamo. The authorities were convinced it was controlled by Al Qaeda members. An August 2002 study by the C.I.A. asserted that Qaeda detainees at Guantanamo had quickly begun ''establishing cellblock leaders and dividing responsibility among deputies for greeting new arrivals, assessing interrogations, monitoring the guard force and providing moral support to fellow detainees, among other tasks.'' (The study was posted in July on the Web site The Smoking Gun; two officials confirmed its authenticity to me.)
 Such conclusions may have been drawn from the actions of detainees like Shaker Aamer, the man with whom Bumgarner spoke for hours at the end of June. Abdullah al-Noaimi, a Bahraini student who was released from Guantanamo last November, described in interviews at his home in Bahrain in June how Aamer initially organized their cellblock through sheer force of personality. ''He's always laughing and talking, very extroverted,'' al-Noaimi said. ''He was born to be a leader.''
 Soon after his own arrival in Cuba, al-Noaimi recalled, Aamer rallied the detainees on the block to refuse to be weighed by the medical staff -- a largely meaningless protest, he said, but one that infuriated the guards and thrilled the detainees. Eventually, he added, Aamer organized the 48-cell block into four groups of 12, with representatives for each unit and a spokesman for the block. ''It's the same thing John McCain did in Vietnam,'' said Lieut. Col. Kevin Burk, who commanded the army's first military police battalion at Guantanamo. ''You continue your resistance.''
 Some parts of the camp were easier to manage than others. The guards looked on the roughly 110 Afghans then at Guantanamo as relatively cooperative. They filled much of Camp 4, the newer wing where Level 1, or ''highly compliant,'' prisoners were allowed to live in communal barracks, serving their own food and moving freely in and out of small recreation yards. Most of the rest of the Afghans were in Camp 1, for Level 2, or ''compliant,'' detainees. Only a handful were held in Camp 5, the maximum-security area. Yet as more prisoners were released, the remainder were becoming a more cohesive group, military officials and former detainees said. They were also overwhelmingly Arab, and more likely to have endured more extreme interrogation techniques like sleep deprivation, sexual humiliation and threats.
 Several former detainees insisted that it was not Al Qaeda that bound them at Guantanamo but a common adversary. In standard prison fashion, they developed ingenious ways to organize and communicate. They attached messages to long threads from their clothing with wads of hardened toothpaste and then cast them into neighboring cells. They shouted into the plumbing to talk between floors in the maximum-security unit. And as their frustration grew, their ability to organize was brought to bear in new ways.

IV. Aamer the Hero
 The hunger strike that confronted Colonel Bumgarner in mid-June 2005 escalated quickly. Of the many strikes since early 2002, few had gone far enough to prompt doctors to force-feed the detainees through stomach tubes. This time, however, there were not a handful of hunger-strikers but dozens.
 As they often had before, military spokesmen dismissed the protest as a publicity bid typical of Al Qaeda-trained terrorists. Officers at Guantanamo had tabulated hundreds of incidents of what they termed ''manipulative, self-injurious behavior.'' Privately, though, they began to discuss how to respond to a potential suicide. At the Pentagon, officials dusted off contingency plans for dealing with a body that would need prompt burial under Islamic law.
 Senior members of the Guantanamo staff began to meet regularly with General Hood to monitor the strike. The chief medical officer, Navy Capt. John S. Edmondson, M.D., worried about the prospect of having to force-feed large numbers of detainees. The medical risk was relatively low, but there were other considerations. ''Anytime you're doing a procedure that the patient doesn't want, it's not a place you want to be,'' he would tell me later. ''What takes precedence? The patient's rights, or their life? It's not an easy question.''
 Bumgarner soon turned to Aamer, who had been on strike since around the time of their first meeting in Camp Echo. During that first encounter, he said, the prisoner had been ''trying to convince me, in a very subtle way, that he could help control things in the camp.'' He decided to consider the proposal.
 Over a couple of more conversations with Aamer, Bumgarner made his case: He wanted the detention camp to run more smoothly, to make things easier for detainees who obeyed the rules. He was prepared to move closer to the standards of the Geneva Conventions in some parts of the operation, including discipline. What did Aamer think it would take, the colonel wanted to know, for the hunger strike to end?
 Aamer summarized his discussions with Bumgarner in a statement he dated Aug. 11, 2005, and later gave to his lawyer, Clive Stafford Smith. In it, he said the hunger-strikers demanded ending ''the secret abuse project of Camp 5'' (which he did not explain) and either bringing the detainees to trial or sending them home. Meanwhile, they wanted better medical and living conditions. Aamer wrote that the colonel promised him ''that justice would come to Guantanamo at last.'' The prisoner, his lawyer said later, had ''decided that this was a man who he could trust.'' 
 Bumgarner said he tried always to bring the talks back to what he could deliver: modest improvements in the detainees' living conditions. He said Aamer told him: '''If you can get me to go around the camps, I can turn this off.'''
 There were no precedents for chaperoned consultations among detainees. But by July 26, 2005, the number of detainees refusing to eat was at 56, and doctors were becoming concerned about the health of several of them. Bumgarner decided to act. ''I saw the chance to end it, and I just did it,'' he said.
 The colonel went to see Aamer at a small hospital inside the detention camp. He was sitting on a bed, one ankle chained to the frame, surrounded by some of the other more determined hunger-strikers. According to Bumgarner, Aamer told him that several of the detainees had had a ''vision,'' in which three of them had to die for the rest to be freed. Still, he agreed to try to persuade them to drop the protest.
 Aamer agreed to suspend his own strike on July 26, his lawyer said, but was unsuccessful in persuading others. That evening or the next, Bumgarner said, he had guards retrieve Aamer from the hospital and meet him at Camp 5, the imposing maximum-security unit. Once inside the heavy doors, they went through the cellblocks one by one, as Aamer spoke with a handful of the most influential detainees. 
 Aamer went first to see Saber Lahmar, an Algerian-born Islamic scholar who was arrested in Bosnia in a supposed conspiracy to bomb the American Embassy in Sarajevo. (Lahmar denied any involvement in such a plot.) Trailed by the colonel and a military interpreter, Aamer continued through the tiers, crouching down to speak to a handful of others through the slots by which they received their food. His last stop was the cell of Ghassan al-Sharbi, a 30-year-old Saudi who studied electrical engineering in Prescott, Ariz. Al-Sharbi, who was later charged in the military tribunals with joining in an Al Qaeda conspiracy to manufacture bombs for attacks in Afghanistan, was reluctant to give up the strike. When he finally agreed, the others went along, two military officials said. 
 As they prepared to leave Camp 5, Bumgarner says, he asked Aamer if he needed to speak with some of the other hunger-strikers there as well. ''No,'' Aamer answered matter-of-factly. ''The others will put the word out.''
 The colonel and his prisoner drove to Camps 2 and 3. As they entered some of the blocks -- Bumgarner in his camouflage fatigues, Aamer handcuffed to a chain around his waist -- the cells erupted with applause.
 ''He was treated like a rock star, some of the places we would go in,'' Bumgarner recalls. ''I have never seen grown men -- with beards, hardened men -- crying at the sight of another man.'' He paused, searching for an analogy. ''It was like I was with Bon Jovi or something,'' he said.
 Former detainees who witnessed the visits recounted to me that Aamer, speaking in Arabic, proposed to end the hunger strike and explained that other detainees in Camp 5 were in agreement. In return, he said, the military authorities promised to try to resolve problems the prisoners faced and to observe parts of the Geneva Conventions. 
 The colonel's subordinates had grown accustomed to his hands-on style of leadership. But they worried more openly about his meetings with Aamer. The Saudi, one officer pointedly said, ''has an almost hypnotic power over some people.'' Two others referred to Aamer as ''Svengali.''
 Bumgarner himself struggled with Aamer's frequent demands. One morning, as Aamer was being sent off with other officers to brief detainees, he had a new one for the colonel: Now he wanted to move around without the leg shackles that were standard for detainees being transported outside their cellblocks.
 ''Look, Shaker, don't make a big deal out of this,'' Bumgarner recalled telling him. ''Let's get on to the bigger thing here. I can't take you out of those shackles.''
 ''I'm not going unless you just handcuff me,'' the prisoner responded.
 ''Shaker, don't do this to me,'' the colonel said. ''It's just going to make it harder.''
 ''No,'' he quoted Aamer as saying. ''I'm not doing any of this.''
 Bumgarner ordered the shackles removed. The handcuffs stayed on. Aamer finally went ahead with his briefings to the other prisoners. ''It was clearly a risk -- not in terms of putting anybody in danger, but in terms of perception,'' Bumgarner told me later. ''But I thought that in the end, in order to keep things going, I was going to have to do it.''
 Mullah Zaeef, the former Taliban ambassador, had just finished his prayers in Camp 4 when a sergeant came to his dormitory. ''There is someone who wants to see you,'' the sergeant said. Zaeef had never had an unannounced visitor at Guantanamo before.
 He found Aamer waiting. The two men had known each other in Camp 1, where they were briefly neighbors. Zaeef, who spoke Arabic, noted that many of the Arabs respected the Saudi's leadership. Aamer told Zaeef about his conversations with the colonel. 
 ''We thought maybe they were becoming softer in their policies,'' Zaeef recalls. ''Or we thought maybe they were trying to trick us. But we thought that we should see which one it was.''
 When I met him in Afghanistan almost a year later, Zaeef still seemed a bit uncertain about what had taken place. He is an elegant, professorial man who wears wire-rimmed glasses and the black silk turban favored by the Taliban. He described the episode during two long interviews in the well-guarded government guest house on the dusty outskirts of Kabul, where he has lived since returning home last September. 
 According to Zaeef, Aamer described a scheme of representation for the detainees that he had worked out with Bumgarner -- one that vaguely echoed the Third Geneva Convention's rules for a prisoner-of-war camp. Detainees in Camp 4 were to choose two inmates to represent them, one for the Afghans and another for the rest. With guards by his side, Zaeef said he then went from one block to the next, explaining the situation. After some discussion, he was chosen by acclamation to represent all of the Camp 4 detainees. Still, Zaeef recalled, ''people were very skeptical.''
 Nonetheless, most of the hunger-strikers suspended their protests by July 28. Disciplinary problems on the blocks eased. The mood in the camps swelled palpably, some military officials told me. Later Bumgarner would refer to this interlude as ''the Period of Peace.''
 The colonel then turned to some of the issues the detainees had raised during their strike. He and Aamer were sitting at one of the picnic tables near his office, debating the camp food, when Aamer insisted that the detainees' meals were being poisoned.
 ''That's asinine!'' Bumgarner said.
 ''I don't see you eating the stuff,'' he said Aamer shot back.
 Over a dinner of fish sticks and fries, they began working out a solution. Not long after, Aamer sat down with the head of the mess hall, the base nutritionist and a logistics officer on the military staff. According to one officer briefed on the meeting, Aamer unfolded a piece of paper on which he had drawn up an elaborate two-week meal plan with daily suggestions for four different diets: a standard menu, a vegetarian menu, a vegetarian-with-fish option and a bland diet for older prisoners and those with intestinal problems. Two officials said Aamer's proposal eventually became the basis for a new meal plan that raised the amount of food offered to detainees each day from 2,800 calories to 4,200 calories.
 After weeks of discussion with his aides, Bumgarner also instituted a new program to simplify the discipline in the camp. Under the previous four-level system, misdeeds were punished with the loss of various ''comfort items'' like prayer beads and books, or stints in the discipline or segregation blocks. The system was so complicated, military officials said, that its application often seemed arbitrary. 
 The new plan called for all or nothing. Every detainee was restored to compliant status and issued all of the comfort items generally available, including prayer beads and bigger bars of soap. Those who broke the rules would be busted down to ''basic issue,'' or B.I., with nothing in between. To symbolize the new order, all detainees in punishment-orange uniforms would be reoutfitted in tan.
 The change might have made a dent in the prisoners' abiding sense of humiliation. The problem, some officers said, was that the plan was set in motion before enough tan clothing could be requisitioned to outfit all the detainees. Some of those left in orange complained loudly.
 ''We did not think that through like we were playing chess,'' Major Angelo said. ''We thought like we were playing checkers. And that didn't work.''

V. The End of Peace
 A couple of days after Aamer visited Zaeef to explain the new plan for prisoner representation, a guard approached Zaeef with a cryptic message. ''At 6 o'clock you are going to go somewhere,'' he said. At the appointed hour, Zaeef was led out of the camp and put on the rumble seat of one of the small John Deere utility vehicles used to transport detainees around the detention center and driven to Camp 1.
 The guards led him to the small, fenced-in exercise yard for Alpha block, where two picnic tables had been placed. Ala Muhammad Salim, an influential Egyptian religious leader in the camp who was known as Sheik Ala, was already there. The two prisoners sat down and began quizzing each other about what was going on. Four others trickled in. They included Aamer and two of the men he met with in Camp 5: Saber Lahmar, the Algerian scholar, and Ghassan al-Sharbi, the Saudi engineer. The sixth was Adel Fattoh Algazzar, a former Egyptian Army officer with a master's degree in economics. Bumgarner did not attend the meeting, but when all of the detainees were seated, his deputy arrived with two other officers. Al-Sharbi acted as the Arabic interpreter.
 According to other officers I spoke with, the deputy delivered a simple message: The six were being asked to provide their input on how to improve conditions in the camp. Each of the detainees responded in turn.
 ''Do not mistreat us anymore,'' Zaeef recalled saying. ''Be respectful of our religion and our Koran. Respect us as human beings, because we are human beings. If we are criminals, take us to court. But if we are innocent, let us go.''
 News of the meeting buzzed through the camp. Right away, several former detainees said, the prisoners began to debate what was taking place. ''We had never talked to the colonels before,'' Abdulaziz al-Shammari, a Kuwaiti teacher, said. ''But this Bumgarner came around all the time, wanting to negotiate with us.''
 The younger detainees pressed Aamer to push past the matter of living conditions and focus on their demands for trial or release. ''The shabab said to him, 'We must not go only for the small things; we should go to the core issues,''' al-Shammari said, using the Arabic word for ''young people'' or ''youth.''
 Mohammed al-Daihani, the Kuwaiti accountant, now released, said that soon after the colonel and Aamer visited his cellblock, Ahmed Errachidi, the Moroccan known as the General, challenged others there to analyze the possible motives of their captors. ''He said: 'Why is a colonel from the most powerful country in the world coming to negotiate with the detainees? They must be under some kind of pressure.'''
 The skeptics on Bumgarner's side were also growing more vocal. ''I was one of the few who thought we should let the leaders come talk to us,'' the colonel acknowledged. Hood was clearly uneasy with the negotiations, other officers said. He told aides not to refer to the six as ''the council,'' as the detainees did. Still, several officers emphasized, the talks would never have gone forward if Hood had not approved them.
 On the evening of Saturday, Aug. 6, shortly after the council's first meeting, the colonel convened the six again, officers said. This time, he sat with the group himself. Aamer had insisted that they should not be handcuffed or shackled. ''These are leaders,'' he told the colonel.
 Bumgarner agreed, and the handcuffs were removed. Guards armed with pepper spray stood by, while an immediate-reaction team waited just out of sight. The colonel later summarized his introduction thusly: ''You're here. I'm here. You've got my attention. Tell me what the grievances are, and we'll work through them.'' He added, ''This place ain't going away, so we might as well make the best of it.''
 As Zaeef recalled the encounter, Bumgarner made several promises: He would allow the circulation of religious books among the detainees and try to resolve problems that arose with the guards. He would assure that the prisoners' food was ''adequate.'' Zaeef said the most important thing the colonel pledged was to send another official who would be able to speak with the detainees about their ''future.'' Bumgarner said he promised only that guards would act ''in the spirit of the Geneva Conventions'' and that he would see that Guantanamo's discipline was consistent with its terms. 
 On the following Monday, the officers said, the six detainees were allowed to meet alone in the fenced-in yard. A pair of military interpreters were positioned nearby to monitor their conversation, officers said. According to both Zaeef and military officials, the detainees began using pens and paper they had been given to write notes. An officer observing the meeting interrupted them: they were not to pass notes, he said. When they insisted on confidentiality, he stepped forward again. But as the officer moved to confiscate the notes, some of the detainees popped them into their mouths and began chewing.
 Hood pronounced the experiment over. '''This group is not meeting anymore,''' the colonel recounts him saying. '''And you are not going to be meeting with them anymore.'''
 The ''period of peace'' came to an abrupt end. According to various sources -- military officials, former detainees and Aamer's lawyer, Clive Stafford Smith -- the detainees were also angered by a few incidents that had taken place over the weekend before the second council meeting. In one case, a prisoner had been forcibly extracted from his cell, only to sit waiting for hours to be interrogated. In another, the questioning of a slight Tunisian detainee by a much larger criminal investigator ended in a violent scuffle involving a cut nose, the possible hurling of a mini-refrigerator and the investigator's being ordered off the island. 
 A couple of days after the negotiations were shut down, officials said, a riot broke out in Camps 2 and 3. Dozens of detainees tore up their cells, wrenching foot pegs from their toilets and using them to try to pry loose the mesh that separated them. Guards were pulled from the tiers and deployed to surround the perimeter of the blocks. Water and electricity were shut off, and Bumgarner finally got on a bullhorn with an Arabic interpreter to persuade the detainees to be escorted from their ruined cells. The repairs took weeks.
 The guard officers were unsure what the detainee leaders had been up to. According to military and intelligence officials, there were indications that Aamer and al-Sharbi had been at odds. Al-Sharbi, the accused Al Qaeda bomb maker, once told a military review panel it was his ''honor'' to be classified as an enemy combatant, declaring, ''May God help me to fight the infidels!'' Paradoxically, he was believed to be the more pragmatic negotiator, urging that the detainees try to improve conditions in the camp. But Aamer, who had denied any involvement in militant activities, took a different position. According to the officials, he argued more directly that the detainees should use the talks to pressure the military into either trying them fairly or setting them free.
 Aamer told his lawyer the military had ''sadly betrayed its word on every occasion a promise has been made.'' He blamed the colonel personally. At the time, Bumgarner said, he felt similarly betrayed. But when he recounted the story months later, he sounded merely disappointed. ''We almost liked each other,'' he said of the two Saudis, Aamer and al-Sharbi. ''I shouldn't say we liked each other, but when we spoke together, there was no animosity.''
 By mid-August, the hunger strike that military commanders thought they had resolved was picking up strength. Complaints about living conditions were de-emphasized, military officials and lawyers for the detainees told me. Instead, the prisoners focused on their future legal status. The renewed protest hit a peak just after Sept. 11 of last year, with 131 prisoners refusing meals for at least three straight days, officials said. 
 Many of the officers doubted that the protesters were willing to take their own lives. Islamic law strongly forbids suicide. Abdulaziz al-Shammari, the Kuwaiti teacher who was one of the most frequent hunger-strikers, said he never considered taking his own life. ''We saw that they would not let us die,'' he said of the military doctors. ''This was merely the most extreme side of the protests.'' 
 Al-Shammari, who has a university degree in Islamic law, was one of a half-dozen more learned detainees to whom others turned for religious rulings on countless problems of their captivity. He said he knew of no relevant exceptions to the prohibition against suicide.
 Two officials familiar with intelligence reporting from Guantanamo said that sometime in the late summer of 2005, Saber Lahmar, the Algerian religious leader who served on the six-man council, told other detainees of a fatwa that said it was lawful to take your own life in order to protect state secrets or to defend the common good. Other detainees spoke about the prophetic dream that Shaker Aamer mentioned to Bumgarner, in which three prisoners had to die for the rest to be free, the officials said.
 As doctors began to tube-feed the more recalcitrant hunger-strikers, the strike consumed the medical staff. Specialists were flown in from naval hospitals in Florida. Most of the detainees maintained their weight at above or near 80 percent of their so-called ideal body weight. But as the strike dragged on, several slipped below 75 or even 70 percent of that measure, doctors said. 
 For detainees who obeyed the rules, the military offered new perks. Exercise time was extended once more. On Hood's instructions, Gatorade and energy bars were given out during recreation periods. Wednesday became pizza night. Guard officers suggested soccer and volleyball tournaments to the compliant detainees in Camp 4. The detainees came back asking that a prize -- two-liter bottles of Pepsi -- be awarded to the winners. (The detainees disdained Coca-Cola, guards said.) Before the games could begin, however, the detainees changed their minds, the officers said. They had concluded that the contest was a scheme by the military to divide them.
 While increasing the incentives for compliance, the colonel also tried to clamp down on disruptive behavior. The segregation and discipline blocks were overhauled. The rules became stricter, the guards tougher. When detainees in segregation tried to shout to one another through the walls, the guards were to turn on large, noisy fans to drown them out.
 Worried about Shaker Aamer's influence, Bumgarner also took an unusual step. In September, he had Aamer moved to Camp Echo, where he would be even more isolated than he would be on the segregation blocks. But Bumgarner did not cut off contacts with the detainee leaders entirely. He approached Zaeef to assure him that he wanted to continue to improve things for compliant detainees. He also developed a rapport with Ghassan al-Sharbi.
 Al-Sharbi was described by people who know him as an intelligent, almost ethereal man from a wealthy Saudi family. (In an appearance before a military tribunal, he sat placidly with his hands folded at the defense table and told the presiding officer in plain English: ''I'm going to make it easy for you guys. I fought against the United States.'') The colonel said he found al-Sharbi a useful interlocutor and met with him repeatedly. After August, he never spoke with Aamer again. 
 The guard officers saw some indications that the tougher approach was working. The number of detainees in the discipline and segregation blocks fell substantially. Only later did the officers begin to suspect that the more combative detainees were so focused on the hunger strike that they had little energy for other protests.

VI. The Suicides
 To some of Colonel Bumgarner's officers, it seemed that the latest group of hunger-strikers were being allowed to get too comfortable. They had hospital beds, air-conditioning, attentive nurses and a choice of throat lozenges to ease the pain of their feeding tubes. The arrangement also allowed some of the hospitalized detainees to communicate relatively easily. 
 By late November, while many of the strikers were maintaining their weight, four or five of them were becoming dangerously malnourished, Dr. Edmondson said. By sucking on their feeding tubes, they had figured out how to siphon out the contents of their stomachs. Others simply vomited after they had been fed.
 On Dec. 5, the guard force ordered five ''restraint chairs'' from a small manufacturer in Iowa. If obdurate detainees could be strapped down during and after their feedings, the guard officers hoped, it might ensure that they digested what they were fed.
 Days later, a Navy forensic psychiatrist arrived at Guantanamo, followed by three experts from a Bureau of Prisons medical center in Missouri. Bumgarner said the visitors agreed with him that the strike was a ''discipline issue'': ''If you don't eat, it's the same as an attempted suicide. It's a violation of camp rules.'' In addition to feeding prisoners in the chair, some of the more influential hunger-strikers were sent off to Camp Echo with the hope of weakening the others' resolve. The number of strikers, which was at 84 in early January, soon fell to a handful.
 Lawyers for the detainees were appalled. The lawyers quoted their clients as saying detainees had been strapped into the chairs for several hours at a time, even as they defecated or urinated on themselves. The doctors told me later that they had run out of options. ''I would have preferred to have waited,'' said Dr. Edmondson, the chief base physician, who other officials said opposed the restraint chairs. But he added, ''I seriously believed that we were going to lose one of those guys if we didn't do something different.'' 
 In the spring of 2006, General Hood and Colonel Bumgarner were suggesting that the mood at Guantanamo had turned. A handful of hunger-strikers were still at it -- a few young Saudis and Yemenites, and Ghassan al-Sharbi. But the officers saw them as zealots whose threat to the smooth operation of the camp could be controlled. Otherwise, disciplinary infractions and attacks on the guards were down, they said, and many of the detainees were responding positively to new incentives for good behavior. 
 In an interview in late March, Hood said he believed that many young Arab detainees -- sheltered, passionate young men who had gone to Afghanistan to fight what they thought would be a noble jihad -- were beginning to see the light. They hadn't been radicalized at Guantanamo, he insisted. Rather, as conditions at the camp had improved, their preconceptions about Americans had worn away. ''They discover, 'You guys aren't so bad.'''
 ''I think the hard-core people have lost ground over the last four years,'' Hood said. ''They are clearly losing ground.''
 As he prepared to turn over his command in April to Rear Adm. Harry B. Harris Jr., Hood was upbeat about the future. ''We are going to establish the most world-class detention facilities, and we are going to show the world that we're doing this right,'' he said. ''Every provision of the Geneva Conventions related to the safe custody of the detainees is being adhered to. Today at Guantanamo -- and, in fact, for a long time -- the American people would be proud of the discipline that is demonstrated here.''
 Six weeks later, as guards in Camp 1 patrolled one of the blocks, they came upon a detainee comatose in his cell and frothing at the mouth -- symptoms of an apparent overdose. ''Snowball'' -- the guards' radio code for a suicide attempt -- was called out over and over. In all, five detainees were found to have ingested medication that they and others had hoarded, and guard officers concluded that at least three were making serious suicide attempts. (Military spokesmen said that only two had really tried to kill themselves.)
 Later that afternoon, May 18, a riot broke out among the ''highly compliant'' detainees in Camp 4 as guards moved to search their dormitories -- and their Korans -- for pills and other contraband, officials said. Detainees in one block of the camp set on guards who stormed their barracks after another guard saw a staged hanging and mistakenly called out ''blizzard,'' the code for multiple suicide attempts. The guards' quick-reaction force fired rounds of rubber bullets and voluminous blasts of pepper spray to contain the disturbance.
 Doctors later determined that the detainees had ingested sleeping pills, antianxiety medication and antipsychotics -- whatever they could get their hands on. Since none of the men had been prescribed the medicines they took, it was evident that other detainees had colluded in the plan. (A cache of about 20 more pills was later found in one prisoner's prosthetic leg.) Still, the military authorities seemed uncertain how to respond.
 Some officials recalled the detainees' premonition about three of them having to die. The medical staff tried to more closely monitor detainees with mental-health problems. But that screening apparently did not factor in the possibility that the men might have been determined to kill themselves for other reasons -- like loyalty to a cause.
 Sometime before midnight on June 9, three young Arab men, who were being held near one another in a single block of Camp 1, moved quietly to the backs of their small cells and began to string up nooses that had been elaborately made from torn linens and clothing. The bright lights had been turned down for the night. Still, the prisoners had to work quickly: guards were supposed to walk the block every three minutes.
 After anchoring the nooses in the steel mesh walls of their cells, the three -- Mani al-Utaybi, and Yasser Talal al-Zahrani, both Saudis, and Ali Abdullah Ahmed, of Yemen -- piled clothing under their bedsheets to make it appear that they were asleep. They stuffed wads of fabric into their mouths, either to muffle their cries or perhaps to help themselves suffocate. At least one of the men also bound his legs, military officials said, apparently so he would not be able to kick as he died.
 With the nooses pulled over their heads, the prisoners slipped behind blankets they had hung over the back corners of their cells and stepped onto their small, stainless-steel sinks. The drop was short -- only about 18 inches -- but adequate. By the time they were discovered, doctors surmised, the men had been asphyxiated for at least 20 minutes and probably longer. Military and intelligence officials said it appeared that the other 20-odd prisoners on the block knew that the suicides were being prepared. Some may have prayed with the men, the officials said, and a few may have assisted in carrying out the plan. What is certain is that in contrast to most previous suicide attempts at the camp, none of the detainees made any effort to alert the guards.
 When doctors reviewed their files on the three men, they found that none of them had shown signs of depression or other psychological problems. All three had been on hunger strikes -- one of them since the previous August -- and at least two of them had been evaluated when they abandoned their protests. One doctor recalled one of the men telling him brightly: ''I'm sleeping well. I feel well. No problems.''
 What the men hoped to communicate by their deaths may have been contained in brief notes they left behind in Arabic. The notes have not been made public, and a Navy investigation into the suicides continues. But military leaders at Guantanamo were not waiting on its outcome. They concluded immediately that the suicides were a blitzkrieg in the detainees' long campaign of protest. At a news conference hours after the suicides, the new Guantanamo commander, Admiral Harry Harris, described them as an act of ''asymmetric warfare.''

VII. Tightening Up
 I sat down with Colonel Bumgarner one blazing afternoon in late June, as he was preparing to give up command. He looked tired and stressed, and slumped into a chair in his small, cluttered office. As Shaker Aamer did the previous summer, Bumgarner used words like ''trust'' and ''betrayal.'' Bumgarner, at the time we spoke, was briefly suspended from duty while the military investigated whether he improperly disclosed classified information to a North Carolina newspaper reporter who, around the time the suicides occurred, had been in Bumgarner's headquarters reporting a feature article on the colonel from Kings Mountain. (He was absolved of any wrongdoing.) But he seemed more worried by something else: Had he completely misunderstood the prisoners he was trying to reach?
 ''We tried to improve their lives to the extent that we can -- to the point that we may have gone overboard, not recognizing the real nature of who we're dealing with,'' he said. ''I thought they had proven themselves. I'm ashamed to admit it, but I did not think that they would kill themselves.''
 Bumgarner said he could not discuss the suicides because of the Navy's continuing investigation. But several officials said that the three detainees had taken advantage of some of the colonel's quality-of-life reforms, including the nighttime dimming of lights and the availability of extra clothing. There were also indications that Ghassan al-Sharbi, the colonel's onetime interlocutor, had helped plan the suicides, two of the officials said.
 Looking back, Col. Kevin Burk, the commander of the military police battalion, said: ''With any population like this, you're going to have a battle. It wasn't like we were all going to 'Kumbaya' together. But we were trying to find that middle ground, where the tension in the camp would even out. As far as we could see, no one had really tried to find that equilibrium before.''
 It is unclear if or when the military might try again. By most appearances, Guantanamo has been tightening up. Since the May riot and the suicides, the military has increased security to prevent further disturbances or deaths. In its ruling on the military tribunals in June, the Supreme Court left the government no choice but to abide by the minimum standards of treatment contained in the Geneva Conventions. But what other privileges and freedoms the detainees are allowed may come even more into question as the Guantanamo population is winnowed downto a harder core and joined by the most notorious terror suspects captured by the C.I.A.
 One hint of Guantanamo's future may lie in the retrofitting of Camp 6, the brand-new medium-security facility that was to have opened this summer. Until this spring, the new camp was to embody the sort of conditions Colonel Bumgarner and other officials had hoped to institutionalize, with spaces for communal meals and larger recreation areas where compliant detainees could play soccer and other sports. After the riot and the suicides, the camp was substantially remade. When it eventually opens, military officials said, it will look somewhat more like Camp 5, the maximum-security unit down the road.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Camp 4: The medium-security holding center for ''highly compliant'' detainees.
The Infirmary Restrictions on water-cooler talk.
Released Abdul Zaeef (left) in Kabul and Mohammed al-Daihani in Kuwait City, June 2006.
Rations: Clockwise from top left: ''Comfort items''
a prisoner's Koran
the expanded meal choices offered under an agreement with a detainee leader
a tube used to force-feed detainees on hunger strikes.
The C.O. General Hood wanted Guantanamo to have a more humane face.
 Closer Watch: Since the riot and suicides, guards at Guantanamo have clamped down a bit. (Photographs by Paolo Pellegrin/Magnum, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); MILITARY BASES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); NAVIES (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); MUSIC (50%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%) Terrorism; Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba); United States Armament and Defense; Suicides and Suicide Attempts; Hunger Strikes; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Mike (Col) Baumgarner; Tim Golden

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); CUBA (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



342 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: September 17, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1		1	RISE AND SHINE, by Anna Quindlen. (Random House, $24.95.) The lives of two sisters, one the host of a television show and the other a social worker.		 	 	 	2	1	5	JUDGE & JURY, by James Patterson and Andrew Gross. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) An aspiring actress and an F.B.I. agent join forces against a powerful mobster.		 	 	 	3	2	3	RICOCHET, by Sandra Brown. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A detective is attracted to a judge's wife who he suspects is not telling the truth about a fatal shooting.		 	 	 	4	4	2	THE AFGHAN, by Frederick Forsyth. (Putnam, $26.95.) To foil a Qaeda plot, a British operative masquerades as a Taliban commander just released from Guantanamo.		 	 	 	5		1	THE EMPEROR'S CHILDREN, by Claire Messud. (Knopf, $25.) A group of privileged 30-somethings try to make their way in literary New York just before 9/11.		 	 	 	6		1	ARMAGEDDON'S CHILDREN, by Terry Brooks. (Del Rey/Ballantine, $26.95.) In an urban, postapocalyptic United States, Knights of the Word battle the Void.		 	 	 	7	3	2	HUNTERS OF DUNE, by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson. (Tor/Tom Doherty, $27.95.) Adventures of the fugitives fleeing the ''Honored Matres,'' based on Frank Herbert's final outline for the Dune series.		 	 	 	8	6	3	SPECIAL TOPICS IN CALAMITY PHYSICS, by Marisha Pessl. (Viking, $25.95.) A motherless teenager who has spent years on the road with her father joins a circle of students enchanted with a charismatic teacher.		 	 	 	9	5	3	INTO THE STORM, by Suzanne Brockmann. (Ballantine, $21.95.) A Navy Seal and a former cop work together to track a serial killer in a remote corner of New Hampshire.		 	 	 	10	10	11	WATER FOR ELEPHANTS, by Sara Gruen. (Algonquin, $23.95.) A young man -- and an elephant -- save a Depression-era circus.		 	 	 	11	9	3	SPY, by Ted Bell. (Atria, $25.95.) The British Secret Service agent Alex Hawke journeys into the Amazon to try to thwart an attack that could destroy America.		 	 	 	12	8	6	THE MESSENGER, by Daniel Silva. (Putnam, $25.95.) Gabriel Allon, an art restorer and an occasional spy for the Israeli secret service, uncovers a Qaeda plot against the Vatican.		 	 	 	13	11	9	CAN'T WAIT TO GET TO HEAVEN, by Fannie Flagg. (Random House, $25.95.) A return to Elmwood Springs, Mo., the setting of Flagg's ''Standing in the Rainbow.''		 	 	 	14	7	8	ANGELS FALL, by Nora Roberts. (Putnam, $25.95.) When a chef from Boston, now living in Wyoming, witnesses a murder, the locals won't believe her.		 	 	 	15	13	4	CRISIS, by Robin Cook. (Putnam, $25.95.) There are shocking revelations at a medical malpractice trial.		 	 	 	16*		1	FOOL ME ONCE, by Fern Michaels. (Kensington, $24.) A young woman grapples with revelations about her mother's true identity and her past.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	5	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	2	2	46	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	3	3	2	STATE OF EMERGENCY, by Patrick J. Buchanan. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $24.95.) The conservative commentator argues that unchecked immigration means that the American Southwest is being reconquered by Mexico, and offers a border-security plan.		 	 	 	4	4	6	FIASCO, by Thomas E. Ricks. (Penguin Press, $27.95.) How the Bush administration's and the military's failure to understand the developing Iraqi insurgency contributed to its further growth.		 	 	 	5	5	74	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The New York Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	6	6	73	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	7	7	4	THE LOOMING TOWer, by Lawrence Wright. (Knopf, $27.95.) The road to 9/11 as seen through the lives of terrorist planners and the F.B.I. counterterrorism chief.		 	 	 	8	14	2	LA BELLA FIGURA, by Beppe Severgnini. (Broadway, $23.95.) A columnist for Corriere della Sera offers a ''field guide to the Italian mind.''		 	 	 	9	8	3	WINS, LOSSES, AND LESSONS, by Lou Holtz. (Morrow, $25.95.) The retired football coach turned motivational speaker tells his life story.		 	 	 	10	11	79	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	11		1	ELIZABETH, by J. Randy Taraborrelli. (Warner, $26.99.) A biography of E. Taylor.		 	 	 	12		1	ENOUGH, by Juan Williams. (Crown, $25.) The NPR senior correspondent attacks the ''phony leaders, dead-end movements and culture of failure that are undermining black America.''		 	 	 	13		1	READING LIKE A WRITER, by Francine Prose. (HarperCollins, $23.95.) A novelist, critic and teacher describes the art of close reading.		 	 	 	14	10	17	MAYFLOWER, by Nathaniel Philbrick. (Viking, $29.95.) How America began, from the author of ''In the Heart of the Sea.''		 	 	 	15*	9	15	DISPATCHES FROM THE EDGE, by Anderson Cooper. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) The CNN correspondent describes covering the tsunami in Sri Lanka, the war in Iraq and Hurricane Katrina.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Sept. 2, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

REDEMPTION: The Last Battle of the Civil War, by Nicholas Lemann. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) The story of the demise of Reconstruction in Mississippi, retold in all its terrible gore.
 THE CREATION: An Appeal to Save Life on Earth, by Edward O. Wilson. (Norton, $21.95.) The noted biologist calls for religious/scientific cooperation.
 TOWARD THE DISTANT ISLANDS: New and Selected Poems, by Hayden Carruth. Edited by Sam Hamill. (Copper Canyon, paper, $17.) A re-cord of a poet of love, labor, justice, jazz and more.
 A DISORDER PECULIAR TO THE COUNTRY, by Ken Kalfus. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $24.95.) In this satiric novel, a couple's bitter divorce finds a larger reflection in the post-9/11 world.
 AFTER THIS, by Alice McDermott. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) In her effectively elliptical novel, McDermott continues to scrutinize the lives of Irish Catholics on Long Island. 
 I'LL STEAL YOU AWAY, by Niccolo Ammaniti. Translated by Jonathan Hunt. (Canongate, $23.) With a Dickensian touch, Ammaniti imagines two dreamers in small-town Italy looking for escape. 
 WIZARD OF THE CROW, by Ngugi wa Thiong'o. Translated by the author. (Pantheon, $30.) A satirical novel about life under an African tyrant.
 THE DISSIDENT, by Nell Freudenberger. (Ecco/ HarperCollins, $25.95.) A Chinese artist is a guest of a dysfunctional Beverly Hills family in this debut novel of global misunderstanding.
 WHAT TERRORISTS WANT: Understanding the Enemy, Containing the Threat, by Louise Rich-ardson. (Random House, $25.95.) A Harvard lecturer's prescription, based on previous successes.
 GOLDEN COUNTRY, by Jennifer Gilmore. (Scribner, $25.) In this debut novel, two Jewish families seek material success and social acceptance across the decades of the 20th century.
 MURDER IN AMSTERDAM: The Death of Theo van Gogh and the Limits of Tolerance, by Ian Buruma. (Penguin Press, $24.95.) Van Gogh's murder by an Islamist radical in 2004 prompted Buruma's hard look at Dutch society.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); ESPIONAGE (88%); LITERATURE (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); HOMICIDE (75%); TALIBAN (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); JURY TRIALS (72%); SHOOTINGS (69%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



343 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Yes, More Troops Would Help, a Bit

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
IN the lawless villages and empty deserts of Anbar Province, the Sunni heartland that provides safe haven for indigenous insurgents and foreign terrorists, what could an American commander do if more troops showed up?
 This tantalizing ''what if?'' is being debated with renewed intensity after it was revealed last week that a Marine Corps intelligence assessment said Anbar's dire security situation could be improved only by injecting more economic aid and a division's worth of troops to reinforce the current 30,000-strong coalition contingent.
In a way, the argument over more troops in Anbar plays out along lines familiar from the early stages of the Iraq war, when Congress and the Pentagon's civilian leaders traded words over whether enough troops were committed to the invasion and its aftermath. 
 But given the current debate, the question becomes how would more troops help in Anbar? And for how long? 
 The answer is, they would help, in the short term. But many military analysts also warn that sending in another division -- anywhere from 12,00 to 15,000 troops -- could create more problems. An extra division could flood the zone in Anbar, a province the size of Louisiana stretching from the west of Baghdad to the Syrian border. 
 Currently, the American military is continuing its ''clear, hold and build'' policy: pushing insurgents from key towns, sending in Iraqi and coalition forces to maintain security and trying to rebuild local governments and businesses. Despite the return of some insurgents, the military points to successes in cities like Falluja. But troops can't begin to secure other important towns like Ramadi, Haditha and Hit.
 Adding soldiers could both accelerate efforts to eradicate insurgents and terrorists, as well as help stanch the flow of foreign fighters and cash that support the homegrown insurgency across Iraq. 
 The addition of troops, military experts said, could increase the number of border posts along the lengthy frontier with Syria. Extra cavalry in Humvees or light-armored vehicles could mount more raids along the historical smuggling routes -- the military calls them ''ratlines'' -- that are not being choked off today.
 Anthony H. Cordesman, a military analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, whose assessments of security in Iraq have become required reading in Washington, said he thought the military was at least a full division short of troop levels required across Iraq. Yet even with more troops, he said, the empty swaths of desert would not be worth securing, even though insurgents are free to maneuver there.
 ''But more troops could help in specific cities,'' Mr. Cordesman said. He suggested focusing on the towns and cities along the river west of Baghdad, as well as the roads from Falluja toward Syria. ''You want the main cities along the road system between Syria and Baghdad,'' he said.
 Military experts said that extra troops could also assist in the nation-building part of the mission. An influx of combat engineers could more rapidly repair and rebuild power grids, sanitation and water systems. Military engineers could train and guide Iraqis in those jobs, which would add the benefit of employing young, disaffected Sunnis. 
 And a larger deployment of civil affairs officers -- many drawn from the reserves who work as lawyers, city managers or teachers back in the civilian world -- could add spine and muscle to efforts to establish democratic city councils, to open schools and to restart businesses. Extra officers and sergeants could also accelerate the training of Iraqi security forces.
 But all those arguments for more troops founder on a tyrannical fact. Many more troops are not available. Iraqi forces are generating slowly. Foreign partners don't seem eager to add troops. And because of the new military operation to secure Baghdad, American forces have actually been pulled from Anbar, although not from the critical cities. 
 There's also the matter of whether more troops help in the long term. Many senior officers and military analysts argue that more soldiers conducting more combat missions would only add to a sense among many Iraqis that the United States is a clumsy and violent occupying power.
 ''I'll state emphatically that our job is to win in Al Anbar,'' said Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, the second-ranking commander in Iraq. ''But it is not the kind of fight that is going to be won by military kinetic action alone. It's a combination across all the lines of operations.''
 General Chiarelli, the commander of day-to-day military operations in Iraq, is one of the Army's leading advocates of using a broad spectrum of military and government-wide capabilities to solve Iraq's security problems. 
 In a 2005 article in Military Review, an official Army journal, he described how ''kinetic action'' -- combat operations -- must be combined with other ''lines of operation,'' which include training Iraqi security forces, establishing democratic government, improving municipal services and building the economy.
 The senior Marine commander in Anbar, Maj. Gen. Richard C. Zilmer, said that more troops may help, but only so much.
 ''I think the introduction of further U.S. forces out here will certainly give short-term affect,'' General Zilmer said. ''But at the end of the day, I don't believe it's going to be the significant change that is necessary to achieve long-term security and stability out here in Anbar. That, we still believe, has got to be an Iraqi solution to that piece.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: More troops would help secure Anbar province, Iraq. But there are many downsides as well. (Photo by Chris Hondros/Getty Images)Map of Iraq highlighting Anbar Province.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); SMUGGLING (65%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Foreign Aid

PERSON: Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (94%) Iraq; Anbar Province (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



344 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Ends Early Admissions, And Guess Who Wins

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
WHEN Harvard was founded in 1636, there were no other colleges in the American colonies, and it would become the model for many of those that followed. When it began requiring applicants to take an obscure test known as the SAT in 1935, Harvard started another trend. Two years ago, after it announced an aggressive new financial-aid policy, it helped push social class to the center of the national debate over higher education and forced two of its main rivals, Stanford and Yale, to follow its lead.
 Last week, Harvard embarked on another effort to mold higher education in its image. Its interim president, Derek Bok, announced that the college would abandon its early admissions program, which for decades has allowed high school seniors to apply in October and get an answer -- yes, no or maybe -- in December, shortly before the regular deadline for applications. 
Harvard officials argue that the program gives yet another leg up to well-off students, who don't need to compare financial-aid offers from numerous colleges and who often attend high schools where counselors help put together applications. After the announcement, many people within education urged other colleges to take a similar step.
 ''We're thrilled,'' said Laurie Kobick, a college counselor at Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology in Alexandria, Va. ''I think it's going to make admissions better in so many different ways.''
 What, then, might a world without early applications look like?
 It would indeed go a small way toward leveling the field among applicants, researchers say. But it would also have an effect on colleges, and the biggest winner would almost certainly be Harvard, a fact that may prevent many other colleges -- perhaps all of them -- from mimicking Harvard this time. Any college that does so will risk losing some of its best applicants.
 Early admissions programs, which date back to the 1950's and now admit half of the freshman class on some campuses, are essentially a bargain between colleges and applicants. The college gives early applicants a small advantage, admitting some who might have been rejected had they applied later. In exchange, the students generally promise to attend the college if they're admitted. 
 The colleges then save money on financial aid, because students accepted early have little leverage to negotiate a better package. Perhaps more important, admissions officers can populate a large portion of their freshman class without worrying that an applicant will end up being admitted to a more prestigious college and choose it instead. 
 The most prestigious college in the world, of course, is Harvard, and the gap between it and every other university is often underestimated. Yes, U.S. News & World Report ranked Princeton No. 1 this year, and colleges that emphasize teaching may well offer a better education than Harvard. But it still exerts a pull on teenagers that is unmatched.
 A few years ago, a group of economists surveyed 3,200 top high school seniors at 500 schools across the country, asking them which colleges had admitted them and which one they would attend. With this information, the researchers could estimate how often students chose one college over another.
 Among those who were admitted to both Harvard and Duke -- sometimes called the Harvard of the South -- and who attended one of the two, about 3 percent picked Duke, according to the economists' statistical model. Only 11 percent chose Brown, perhaps the trendiest Ivy League university in recent years, over Harvard. Princeton and Stanford win only about 25 percent of their battles with Harvard. Yale gives the stiffest competition, winning about 35 percent of the time, which in politics would be considered a crushing landslide.
 For any college contemplating the end of early admissions, the implications are plain enough. ''There are a lot of people who apply to Yale early or to Princeton early,'' said Andrew Metrick, one of the economists who did the study and a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, ''who might choose to go to Harvard if they got in.'' 
 Dozens of other colleges would be even more vulnerable to losing their best applicants. Today, students often choose to apply early to a college where they think they have a good chance of being admitted, rather than to one that seems like a long shot. Understanding this, admissions officers are happy to admit so many students early. As Ellen Fisher, college adviser at the Bronx High School of Science, said, the officers often ask themselves, ''Is this someone we might lose if we don't take early?''
 There are caveats to Harvard's dominance. Every year, about 20 percent of the students it accepts turn it down, evidently deciding that prestige is not everything. If early admissions were to go away, some high school seniors would still find themselves able to resist the lure of a Harvard acceptance letter. 
 Already, M.I.T., Stanford and Yale allow a student who was accepted early to apply elsewhere, opening themselves up to competition from Harvard. These colleges, or others, may well decide that the larger good of a fairer admissions process is worth the cost. ''There is no question about it: early admissions advantages the advantaged,'' William R. Fitzsimmons, Harvard's dean of admissions, said. ''It's truly tilted.''
 Officials at Brown, Dartmouth, Penn, Princeton and Yale, for their part, suggested last week that they had no immediate plans to make a change. They all have more to lose than Mr. Fitzsimmons does.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Dueling For Students''Economists surveyed 3,200 top high school seniors about their college preferences. They used the results to predict how students in the overall population would choose between schools in head-to-head matchups.According to their estimates, if 100 students are accepted to both Harvard and another university, Harvard wins the vast majority of students. Here, a few matchups.More than 100 other school pairings are available at nytimes.com/weekinreview.HARVARD: 65YALE: 35HARVARD: 73M.I.T.: 27HARVARD: 97DUKE: 3(Drawing by Bill Marsh/The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''More Matchups''If 100 students are accepted to both schools in the pairings below, here is how many of them would choose to go to each school, according to economists' estimates.HARVARD: 73STANFORD: 27HARVARD: 75PRINCETON: 25HARVARD: 89BROWN: 11HARVARD: 91COLUMBIA: 9HARVARD: 93DARTMOUTH: 7HARVARD: 98BERKELEY: 2YALE: 62PRINCETON 38BERKELEY: 5STANFORD: 95BERKELEY: 65UCLA: 35BROWN: 25STANFORD: 75M.I.T.: 51STANFORD: 49COLUMBIA: 71CORNELL: 29COLUMBIA: 59PENN: 41(Drawing by Billl Marsh/The New York Times)(pg. 4)(Sources by Christopher Avery, Mark Glickman, Caroline Minter Hoxby and Andrew Metrick)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); TRENDS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); RANKINGS (69%); NEWS BRIEFS (61%) Colleges and Universities; Admissions Standards; Finances; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%) Harvard University

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



345 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: A Magazine for Earnest Young Things

BYLINE: By SHARON WAXMAN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
WE all want to change the world. But for the people at Good magazine it's going to take a lot of Red Bull. 
 It was 9 a.m. one morning last week, and a half-dozen staff members were drinking iced coffees on Sunset Boulevard, a few steps down the bleached California pavement from their tiny, worn offices on the strip.
At the center of the activity was Ben Goldhirsh, 26, the owner and a founder of Good, an unshaven bundle of enthusiasm wearing a Red Sox T-shirt and a pair of pale blue corduroys, held up by some clear twine from his car. 
 Not that he's poor. Mr. Goldhirsh is the multimillionaire financier of Good, the magazine he has just founded with friends from prep school (Phillips Academy Andover) and college (Brown). But he is perhaps a bit distracted, since Good's first issues hit the stands this week, and launch parties on both coasts are mere days away. 
 Still it doesn't take much to send Mr. Goldhirsh into full-throated evangelical pitch when asked, ''Why in the world does anyone need another magazine?'' (Yes! It's on real paper!) 
 ''We wanted to bring valuable content to an audience that's not being respected,'' Mr. Goldhirsh explained. ''You have The Economist, you have The New Yorker, with wonderful value, but they're not catering to the taste of a younger demographic.'' 
 Mr. Goldhirsh, the son of the founder of Inc. magazine, Bernie Goldhirsh, and heir to a fortune, doesn't read many magazines himself, nor do his friends. ''I try to read The Economist every week, but it's almost like an assignment,'' he said. ''It's an effort.'' 
 Nonetheless, he and his Andover buddy Max Schorr, now the publisher, decided that a new magazine was exactly what his generation needed most: ''A free press for the critical idealist,'' as the inaugural issue proclaims. 
 In practice this means short features on subjects like a Los Angeles garage that converts cars to run on vegetable oil and an Austrian movie about processed food. The first issue has a distinctly unsexy cover, with a blank space for filling in a verb of the reader's choice, followed by the phrase ''Like You Give a Damn.'' It includes an essay on America's place in the world by James Surowiecki, a New Yorker writer, and an exhortation to end poverty by the economist Jeffrey Sachs. 
 It also has big graphic features. One maps out a timeline of Paris Hilton's wealth, and another charts the average costs of marriage and divorce.
 The founders say they were motivated by a desire to contribute to society and express something on behalf of their generation. But having been raised on video games, forged in the crucible of consumer culture and matured in the cynical Age of Bush, these young men are idealists who believe that that capitalist demigod, the market, is not to be trifled with. A life in investment banking or a dot-com start-up wasn't going to cut it for them. But neither was joining the Peace Corps. 
 So, Good falls somewhere between: New Age meets new money Volunteerism meets the consumerist imperative. Exhibit A: The Fred Segal boutique in Santa Monica, outfitter to the stars, has put Good magazine in its display window. 
 Still, starting a magazine is a perilous business, and the trash heap of publishing history is littered with the glossy pages of ideas gone bust -- George, Brill's Content, Radar (which is undergoing resuscitation) -- without counting the unending stream of more obviously commercial titles that didn't make the grade, like Teen People and the food magazine Chow, each recently closed. 
 Magazine analysts said the chances of a magazine's succeeding in today's market were minuscule and that Good's approach seemed high-minded but financially unrigorous. 
 ''This sounds a lot to me like vanity publishing, a bunch of kids sitting around with something they think is a really good idea, and one of them has a lot of money,'' said Chip Block, a retired magazine executive, publisher and consultant. ''You can catch lightning in a bottle. But the odds are against them.'' 
 Other analysts said the magazine would face a challenge in finding enough advertisers to sustain revenues, besides those who may subscribe to its noble philosophy, like Timberland, which took an ad in the first issue. (It had 16 ad pages.) 
 ''I was really surprised at how much I wanted to read it, and how good it looked on a first glance of a first issue,'' said Kurt Anderson, a former editor and founder of magazines, including Spy and Inside.Com. ''First issues aren't necessarily great, but I was impressed by how it looked, the writers they got to write. It's an interesting idea. Lord knows if they can make a go of it commercially.''
 One thing that distinguishes Good from other young magazines is its wholly unironic tone. But Mr. Schorr believes that his generation is looking for a little earnestness. 
 ''There is a hunger out there,'' he explained. ''If you go to any top college and meet the students, they all have these causes. And when they graduate, they have idealism as an ambition. There's a real gap between that vision and what you can actually do. So we want to integrate living well and doing good.'' 
 To this end, one of the magazine's early marketing gimmicks is that the annual subscription fee of $20 for six issues will go to a charity the reader chooses. The campaign is called Choose Good. 
 Subscription money to charity? Hardly a business model. ''This doesn't sound like a completely serious business venture,'' said Mr. Block, who has not seen the magazine, when he heard about the idea. ''I'm not saying they're not serious about what they're doing. But there's nothing wrong with a profit motive, and the first law of any start-up should be survival.'' 
 For the moment, Mr. Goldhirsh's deep pockets will suffice. He intends to sink $10 million into the magazine over the next five years, including the first million he has already spent. 
 ON the second floor of this cement block and stucco building, a warren of small spaces, industrial carpeting underfoot, make up the staff offices of Good. In a central room, the managing editor, Zach Frechette (from Brown, a year behind Mr. Goldhirsh), presided over a white laminate conference table and a whiteboard marked up with ideas for the second issue. Behind a bookcase, which serves as a divider, a refrigerator provided and stocked by Red Bull is largely depleted of that energy drink, while two half-empty half gallons of Cuervo Gold tequila suggest an alternative. 
 In the bookcase are The New York Times Manual of Style and Usage, ''Basic Works of Aristotle,'' ''Speak Truth to Power: Human Rights Defenders Who Are Changing Our World'' by Kerry Kennedy and a stack of Men's Vogue. Yoga mats are neatly arranged in little cubbyholes next to the bar. The staff generally gathers for yoga classes out on the narrow balcony about three times a week. 
 The magazine's creative director, Casey Caplowe, Mr. Goldhirsh's roommate from Brown, displays mock-ups of early thoughts for the cover: a close-up of a nun with a look of Zen meditation on her face and an oil derrick in a storm. 
 Mr. Schorr occupies a tiny space with a tinier desk. Issue 2 is mapped on a tagboard under the heading, ''Do Something Really Good -- Why?'' His bookshelf is almost bare except for ''The Iliad'' and ''The Odyssey,'' two of his favorites. 
 Much of the enterprise has the scattershot feel of a dormitory where the kids are putting on a show. Neither Mr. Goldhirsh nor his top lieutenants seem to have a clue of the circulation numbers at other magazines they admire and cite as the kind of company they would like to keep: National Geographic (5.46 million), The New Yorker (1 million). And they have chosen to ignore paid industry consultants, who -- among other things -- advised using direct mail to find subscribers, and are instead organizing launch parties. 
 Off in a closetlike space sits Albert Gore III, the associate publisher. He graduated from Harvard a year ago and in May took over the job of heading advertising sales, having never sold an ad before that time. 
 ''It has been difficult,'' acknowledged Mr. Gore, 23, the baby-faced son of the former vice president. ''I'm still learning as I go.'' He is hoping for 25 ad pages in the next issue. 
 Mr. Goldhirsh said of him, ''I wanted someone who got what we were about.'' Mr. Gore started as an intern at a movie production company owned by Mr. Goldhirsh. 
 Sitting in his office, bare except for a Mission-style desk with a photo of his dog, Daryl, a mixed Rottweiler-Labrador, and Daryl, who lounges on the carpet, Mr. Goldhirsh said he knows the odds are against him. But that doesn't mean he's not a betting man. ''We'll evaluate reality as it comes,'' he said, cracking open a Red Bull. ''I grew up hearing nothing but start-up stories. And we're aware of the pitfalls.'' 
 Still, he added, ''I have no intention of doing anything but making this work.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: NEW AGE, NEW MONEY -- The staff of Good, owned by Ben Goldhirsh, second from left and below. (Photographs by Axel Koester for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (61%); RELIGION (52%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (50%) Magazines

ORGANIZATION: Good (Magazine)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (50%) Ben Goldhirsh; Sharon Waxman

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



346 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Amanda Joseph, William Little

 BODY:
Amanda Marlene Joseph, a daughter of Marilyn Gill Joseph of Princeton Junction, N.J., and Robert H. Joseph Jr. of New York, was married yesterday to William Isaac Little, the son of Maria N. Little of San Francisco and William A. Little Jr. of Washington. The Rev. John W. Wimberly Jr., a Presbyterian minister, officiated at the Fairmont hotel in Washington. 
 The bride and bridegroom, both 28, graduated from George Washington University, where they met.
Ms. Joseph-Little, is a research analyst, specializing in human resources topics, at the Corporate Executive Board, a consulting firm in Washington. She received a master's degree in clinical social work from New York University. Her father is a senior vice president and the chief financial officer of AllianceBernstein, an investment management company in New York. He is also a trustee of Gettysburg College.
 Mr. Little is an adviser on African-American outreach, in Washington, to Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader. His mother is a science teacher at Borel Middle School in San Mateo, Calif. His father retired as a computer systems analyst and consultant in Foster City, Calif.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (65%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CORPORATE EXECUTIVE BOARD CO (57%); ALLIANCEBERNSTEIN HOLDING LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: CEB (NYSE) (57%); AB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



347 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Hope and Housing 

 BODY:
Housing is one of those emotional terms in the suburbs, like terrorism and global warming, that bring out a weird sort of anxious fatalism in people. Everyone knows that affordable housing is scarcer than ever, that counties like Westchester have become practically off limits to young people and the working class. The usual responses are passive acceptance or abject surrender: turning half of one's gross income over to a mortgage or moving to the Dakotas. 
 But not everyone is giving up. A report in July by two nonprofit groups, the Citizens Housing and Planning Council and the Regional Plan Association, offers a big-picture dissection of the housing crisis that can leave a reader feeling not overwhelmed, but hopeful. While acknowledging that the housing situation poses a serious threat to the region's economy and quality of life, and that things have become worse in recent years, the report, ''Balanced Housing for a Smart Region'' (available at chpcny.org or rpa.org), is bursting with strategies and tactics for attacking the problem on multiple fronts. 
There has been no shortage, of course, of housing prescriptions that are optimistic, ambitious and ineffectual. Every politician has a few. But this report, singular for its depth and completeness, lays out a host of ways to overcome the shortsightedness and not-in-my-backyard intransigence that has kept solutions at bay.
 The report is also notable for the sound strategic principles that inform it (and that could well inform developers and political leaders), among them the following:
 Sprawl is not an option. The New York metropolitan region will need to create housing for an estimated three million to four million people in the next 25 years, but this time there will be no Robert Moses to lead the multitudes into the promised land, because there is no such place. 
 Yes, parts of the Hudson Valley, eastern Long Island, the far reaches of New Jersey and the nearer precincts of Pennsylvania still have room left for traditional single-family homes on suburban-style lots. But this region's commutes are already the longest in the country, and there is a limit to how far people can drive and how much bulldozing of open space they will tolerate. Throughout the region, there is growing pressure to preserve what is left of its forests and farmland, and the age of buildout seems nearly at hand. 
 The good news is that the region is rich in poor cities -- Yonkers is an excellent example -- as well as empty industrial sites, desolate shopping malls and other underused properties that are ripe for redevelopment and repopulation. In a housing-hungry era, things that are generally regarded as blight should be regarded as positive resources; today's brownfield can be tomorrow's rejuvenated and repopulated neighborhood. 
 'High-density' is not a dirty word. And neither is ''affordable housing.'' Communities throughout the region have long opposed the obvious answer to housing shortages, which is to build more apartment buildings and other forms of multifamily housing for people with low and moderate incomes. 
 Some of the resistance comes from plain old white-flight racism, but it also stems from the not-unreasonable belief that newcomers with children burden the schools and end up costing a community more than they pay in taxes. The report concedes that, but points out that not every household has children. A smart mix of new housing -- serving the elderly, divorced singles and childless couples, as well as growing young families -- can help, not hurt, a community's fiscal bottom line. 
 Old perceptions die out slowly, but there also seems to be a growing realization in the suburbs that ''those people'' who would take garden apartments near single-family split-ranches are not just refugees from the city, but the children of suburbanites -- including teachers, police officers, firefighters and the other members of the middle and working classes who are vital to the life of any community. It is telling that in Westchester, the nonprofit group Habitat for Humanity is building homes not just for the poor, but also for volunteer firefighters.
 Smart is better than dumb. The philosophy of ''smart growth'' has come to be seen by many as a precious architectural conceit, a recipe for tidy pastel homes with gables and picket fences. But the concept is richer and more vital than that. It encompasses walkable communities, ready access to mass transit, and architecture that is dense and compact but attractively built. 
 If the region is ever going to break its addiction to the car, the curse of low-density sprawl and traffic congestion, communities arranged on smart-growth principles will lead the way. Their appealing design is usually a plus, and is considered a major factor in increasing the public's acceptance of new multifamily construction, which often looks better than the aging, old-style suburban homes around it.
 New York is not Phoenix. And thank goodness for that. This region is distinctive for having every conceivable mix of housing types, from ''Brady Bunch'' ranches to SoHo lofts to creaky riverfront Victorians. The cultural richness and diversity of the region presents planners and developers with lots of options. Here in Westchester, to take one particularly creative example, Thomas Schwarz, president of Purchase College of the State University of New York, has pushed a plan to build apartments for the elderly on the sprawling campus, an excellent idea that has died several times in Albany.
 Big government is not the problem. Little government is. Hundreds of local municipalities control decisions about land use, and their individual acts of resistance to housing solutions have left the whole region worse off. States cannot rely on the bully pulpit; they need broad strategies for planning and managing growth. The report holds up New Jersey's plan as one of the most comprehensive in the nation, while noting that Connecticut's is purely advisory, and New York's is nonexistent. 
 Westchester's exclusive enclaves tend to be unabashed in their resistance to letting down the housing ladder to the nonrich. But there are also examples of real leadership. The Town of Greenburgh long ago instituted an ''inclusionary zoning'' rule requiring that 10 percent of new multifamily housing units be affordable. The county government has worked hard to promote such housing, with legal, financial and technical help to developers, agencies and local governments that want to do what is right. 
 More radically and profoundly, the report says, states can help by breaking the link between school financing and property taxes, a huge barrier to the creation of new multifamily and affordable housing. The state of Michigan has done so, replacing property taxes with a grab bag of revenues from other sources and thereby eliminating at least one local rationale for opposing affordable housing. 
 There are other things state and county governments can do. They can give tax breaks to companies that build housing for their employees, provide money to nonprofit groups to preserve housing, create housing trust funds that can be used to build mixed-income housing and make creative use of development rights, allowing developers to build in greater density in return for preserving open space. 
 We're all in this together. The report stresses that the region's far-flung suburbs are all extremities of one social and economic organism. Solutions in one area will help communities in another. The region is large, sprawling and full of competing interests and rivalries, but affordable housing is the quandary that unites us all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); LAND USE PLANNING (79%); TERRORISM (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RETAILERS (50%) Housing; Editorials; Suburbs

ORGANIZATION: Citizens Housing and Planning Council; Regional Plan Assn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



348 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Hope and Housing 

 BODY:
Housing is one of those emotional terms in the New York metropolitan region, like terrorism and global warming, that bring out a weird sort of anxious fatalism in people. Everyone knows that affordable housing is scarcer than ever, that entire counties like Nassau have become practically off limits to young people and the working class, and that the only way to deal with the problem is through passive acceptance or abject surrender -- turning half of one's gross income over to the mortgage, or moving to the Dakotas. 
 But not everyone is giving up. A report in July by two nonprofit groups, the Citizens Housing and Planning Council and the Regional Plan Association, offers a big-picture dissection of the housing crisis that can leave a reader feeling not overwhelmed, but hopeful. While acknowledging that the housing squeeze poses a serious threat to the region's economy and quality of life, and that things have been getting worse, ''Balanced Housing for a Smart Region'' (available at chpcny.org or rpa.org) is bursting with strategies for attacking the problem on multiple fronts. 
There has been no shortage, of course, of housing prescriptions that are optimistic, ambitious and ineffectual. Every politician has a few. But this report is singular for its depth and completeness, and for the strategies it suggests. The report is also notable for the sound principles that inform it (and could inform policy makers as well), among them the following: 
 Sprawl is not an option. The region will need to create housing for an estimated three million to four million people in the next 25 years, but this time there will be no Robert Moses to lead the multitudes into the promised land, because there is no such place. 
 It is true that parts of eastern Long Island, the far reaches of New Jersey, the upper Hudson Valley and near reaches of Pennsylvania still have room left for traditional single-family homes on suburban-style lots. But this region's commutes are already the longest in the country, and there is a limit to how far people can drive and how much bulldozing of open space they will tolerate. On Long Island in particular there is intense pressure to preserve what is left of its forests and farmland, and the age of buildout is nearly at hand. 
 The good news is that the region is rich in poor cities, from Yonkers to Newark to Bridgeport, as well as empty industrial sites, desolate shopping malls and -- in Long Island's case -- many dilapidated downtowns in places like Hempstead and Wyandanch that are ripe for redevelopment. The answer on this bedroom island, as elsewhere, is to repopulate fading downtowns, to build apartments over stores and, where possible, to create accessory apartments in existing homes. 
 Some of this is actually being done now, but illegally; the trick is to encourage the phenomenon and regulate it. 
 'High-density' is not a dirty word. And neither is ''affordable housing.'' Communities throughout the region have long fiercely opposed more apartment buildings and other forms of multifamily housing and subsidized housing for people with low and moderate incomes. Some of the resistance comes from plain old white-flight racism, but some stems from the not-unreasonable belief that newcomers with children burden the schools and end up costing a community more than they pay in taxes. 
 The report concedes that in some cases that is true, but not in all cases. It also argues that there are remedies. Not every household has children; the elderly people, divorced singles and young couples who make up a significant part of the housing market can generate large tax surpluses in a community. A smart mix of new housing, in other words, can help, not hurt, a community's fiscal bottom line. 
 Old perceptions die out slowly, but there also seems to be a growing realization in the suburbs that ''those people'' who would take garden apartments near single-family split-ranches are not just refugees from the inner city, but the children of suburbanites -- including teachers, police officers, firefighters and the other members of the middle and working classes who are vital to the life of any community. 
 It is telling, in this regard, that the nonprofit group Habitat for Humanity is building low-cost housing in East End communities like East Hampton, which is only too aware that even a rich village cannot function if only the rich can live there.
 Smart is better than dumb. Properly understood and executed, the philosophy of ''smart growth'' involves walkable communities, ready access to mass transit and architecture that is dense and compact but attractively built. If the region is ever going to break its addiction to low-density sprawl and traffic congestion, communities arranged on smart-growth principles will lead the way. Their appealing design is usually a plus, helping to build public acceptance of new multifamily construction, which often looks better than the aging suburban homes around it.
 New York is not Phoenix. And thank goodness for that. This region is distinctive in the United States for having every conceivable mix of housing types, from ''Brady Bunch'' ranches to SoHo lofts to creaky riverfront Victorians. The cultural richness and diversity of the urban and suburban mix give lots of options to planners and builders, and suggest a variety of ways to solve the housing shortage. 
 Big government is not the problem. Little government is. Hundreds of local municipalities control decisions about land use, and their individual acts of resistance to housing solutions have left the whole region in a pickle. But states can help, first by developing broad strategies for planning and managing growth. The report holds up New Jersey's plan as a model for the nation, while noting that Connecticut's is purely advisory, and that New York has none at all.
 On their own, the county executives on Long Island have tried to reinvigorate a wise but toothless advisory body, now called the Long Island Regional Planning Board. While no one expects it to overturn the powerful tradition of home rule, the board could serve as a forum for big ideas and a place to marshal arguments against the status quo. 
 More radically and profoundly, states can help by breaking the link between school financing and property taxes -- a huge barrier to the creation of multifamily and affordable housing. The state of Michigan has done so, replacing property taxes with a grab bag of revenues from other sources and eliminating one local rationale for opposing affordable housing. 
 State and county governments can also give tax breaks to companies that build housing for their employees, as the Suffolk County executive, Steve Levy, has urged; provide money to nonprofit groups to buy and preserve housing; and create state housing trust funds that can be used to create mixed-income housing. 
 We're all in this together. The report stresses that the region's far-flung suburbs are all extremities of one social and economic organism. Solutions in one area will help communities in another. The region is large, sprawling and full of competing interests and rivalries, but affordable housing is the quandary that unites us all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); SUBURBS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (79%); TERRORISM (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); CITIES (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); RETAILERS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Housing; Editorials; Suburbs

ORGANIZATION: Citizens Housing and Planning Council; Regional Plan Assn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



349 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: For Roosevelt Schools, New Year and New Woes

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
The start of a new school year has brought nothing but more problems for the Roosevelt school district. The district, which has been under state control for the last four years because of substandard student performance and fiscal difficulties, has uncovered more financial problems.
 Earlier this month, when the district closed its financial books for the 2005-6 school year, its new business manager, Stanley Bronski, uncovered a deficit that was at first estimated to exceed $5 million for a budget of $67.6 million. That has since been recalculated to $4.3 million, said Tom Dunne, a spokesman for the State Education Department. 
How could this have happened in the only district ever taken over by the state? ''The best guess is that anticipated revenues for the year were down while expenses were up,'' Mr. Dunne said.
 The district is now operating on an austerity budget and was forced to cut $3.6 million in planned spending, including its full-day kindergarten program, after the community voted down the budget twice this spring.
 Last Monday, Ronald O. Ross, the superintendent of schools, and Edward McCormick, the president of the Board of Education, met in Albany with the state education commissioner, Richard P. Mills, who has the authority to appoint the district's board and superintendent and has veto power over district spending. 
 Mr. Mills ''has instructed them to come up with an aggressive plan to resolve the deficit without harming any academic programs,'' Mr. Dunne said. He said that Mr. Mills also insisted that by Sept. 25, the district must hire an outside business administrator who will report directly to the commissioner.
 But troubles for the 2,800-student district escalated further when State Senator Charles J. Fuschillo Jr. of Merrick, whose district includes Roosevelt, also met with Mr. Mills and called for the removal of Mr. Ross. Mr. Ross has been superintendent since 2004.
 ''My concerns over Mr. Ross's tenure date back to a year ago, when I questioned the way he was spending $6 million in academic grants from the state,'' Mr. Fuschillo said. ''With educational oversight, it is inexcusable to have a deficit of that magnitude, and it's time for the commissioner to move in a new direction, with new leadership.'' 
 Mr. Ross declined to comment on the deficit or on Mr. Fuschillo's call for his dismissal. 

$35 Million for Center On New Energy Sources
 The State University at Stony Brook, the Long Island State Senate delegation and the KeySpan Corporation are collaborating on a project that will bring together energy-related research and development projects at a new technology center designed to uncover new energy sources and protect natural resources.
 KeySpan has donated the use of facilities in Islandia for the center's temporary home while a permanent $35 million center is built during the next three years at the old Gyrodyne property in St. James, which the state acquired in an eminent domain case. 
 Led by Kenneth P. LaValle and Dean Skelos, the Island's Senate delegation secured the $35 million in state funds for the project. The money will enable Stony Brook University to make plans to establish the research center. 
 At a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Sept. 8 in Islandia, more than 70 projects that are under way at Stony Brook, LIPA, KeySpan, Brookhaven National Laboratory and other local universities and research centers were displayed. The projects focus on exploring renewable energy sources, enhancing the performance of traditional fuels and employing advanced fuel cell technology.
 ''This center will bring all of these projects together,'' said Yacov A. Shamash, the dean of the College of Engineering and Applied Sciences at Stony Brook. He said the goal was to develop ''alternative sources of fuel and to improve the efficiency of the current ways of using power.''
 Mr. LaValle said that there was a dire need for new energy sources to fulfill demand in New York State, particularly on Long Island. He said the center could ''create a more efficient and cost-effective source of energy, which will, in turn, contribute to our economic growth.''

Suffolk Agrees to Monitor Composting's Health Impact
 Suffolk County, responding to complaints from residents who live near composting sites in eastern Long Island, has set up a program to monitor any medical impact the sites might have. 
 Earlier this month, Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, allocated $25,000 for a project involving the county's Health Department and Stony Brook University Medical Center in which pulmonary experts will evaluate residents who say they have respiratory problems. 
 ''Composting centers are a nuisance regarding odor, but we'd also like to know if there are health implications,'' Mr. Levy said. ''The data we collect will help us make that determination.'' 
 For many years, residents living near the Long Island Compost Corporation and other composting sites around Manorville, Yaphank and Moriches have complained of odors and have raised concerns about the respiratory effects on young children and people with breathing difficulties.


GRAPHIC: Photo: DIRT WORK -- The Long Island Compost Corporation's site in Yaphank. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); VETO (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (62%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (54%) Education and Schools; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Energy and Power; Research; Education and Schools; Medicine and Health; Compost

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York at Stony Brook ; Keyspan Corp

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (83%); NG (LSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (83%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (83%)

PERSON: Richard (Comr) Mills; Charles Jr (Sen) Fuschillo; Ronald O (Schools Supt) Ross; Linda Saslow

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State; Roosevelt (NY); St James (NY); Suffolk County (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



350 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: FLUSHING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: A Dentist Departs, And His Patients Scramble

BYLINE: By ALEX MINDLIN

 BODY:
Like homing pigeons, Dr. Gideon Kay's former patients keep returning to the big cream-colored house on Utopia Parkway in Flushing, Queens. They peer through the shattered basement windows and gingerly poke around the chained and scarred front door. 
 ''This is my third time here,'' said Eugene Quinn, 53, a blue-eyed, bearded office manager for a construction materials company. ''I just wanted to see if there was anybody.'' Like other patients of Dr. Kay, an oral surgeon specializing in tooth implants, Mr. Quinn found no one.
The office has been empty since an electrical fire broke out in Dr. Kay's basement laboratory on Aug. 9. Within days, patients received a letter bearing news of a second calamity. ''For medical reasons, I have to immediately retire from the practice of dentistry,'' it read. ''Unfortunately, my office was recently destroyed by fire. Based upon this destruction, I cannot make arrangements with another dentist to continue your care.''
 Since then, Dr. Kay's patients have been scrambling to find other dentists, a task made more difficult by the lack of dental records. Some want to be reimbursed for upfront payments they say they made to Dr. Kay for procedures that he had yet to perform. And many, like Mr. Quinn, say they are in dental limbo; their teeth have been extracted and artificial roots installed, but they have not had replacement teeth attached. 
 Mr. Quinn, for now, is using temporary false teeth affixed with dental paste. 
 ''I can't eat properly,'' he said. ''If I stop and have a couple of hot dogs for lunch, when you bite on the hot dog, it loosens them up. There's no way of eating a pizza, a bagel, a sandwich.'' 
 There is no comprehensive list of Dr. Kay's aggrieved former patients, but recipients of an informal list circulated by the Queens County Dental Society said it contained about 20 names. Tom Dunn, a spokesman for the state's Education Department, said that its Office of the Professions, which handles licensing of dentists, was engaged in ''an active investigation.'' And Meris Campbell, a spokeswoman for the Queens County District Attorney's office, said that the matter had been ''referred to our economic crimes bureau for a review.'' 
 Dr. Kay, reached by phone last week, said that no more than 1 percent of his patients had paid in advance for the full cost of their work. He said that some records had been destroyed, and citing bronchitis and cardiac illness, he said that he had been too sick to send others. Added to that, he said, was the strain of seeing his business destroyed. 
 ''I'm sick all the time,'' he said, sounding weak. ''I'm breaking down.'' 
 Dr. Kay began to sob over the phone. ''Some people blame me for neglecting them, but I didn't do anything,'' he said. ''God did it to me.'' ALEX MINDLIN


GRAPHIC: Photo: What to do when the oral surgeon disappears. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DENTISTRY (91%); FIRES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); FORENSICS (75%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (62%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (60%) Teeth and Dentistry; Fires and Firefighters

COMPANY: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS CO LTD (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3251 BRICK & STRUCTURAL CLAY TILE (72%)

PERSON: Gideon (Dr) Kay; Alex Mindlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



351 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Too Poor to Graduate 

BYLINE: By Liz Krueger. 
Liz Krueger is the state senator representing New York's 26th district.

 BODY:
HERE'S something to think about as college students across the state settle into campus life.
 According to a recently released study by the Department of Education, paying for college is a greater burden for New Yorkers than in any other state. The costs for low- and middle-income students to attend public universities and community colleges here represent nearly 50 percent of their annual family income. Furthermore, a new study on higher education put out by the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, a nonprofit group, gave New York a failing grade for affordability.
This growing financial burden has resulted in more post-college debt and has forced students to work longer hours to make ends meet while in school and to take longer to complete degrees. This has translated into lower graduation rates. And yet the demand for entry-level workers with college degrees continues to spread. 
 Who loses when this happens? New York businesses, which are left with a shortage of employees. If our workers fail to meet the intellectual and educational demands of 21st-century businesses, then businesses will leave the state, just as many young adults who can't afford to live here are doing and will do if they can't find jobs. A stable and growing economy needs an educated work force, and an educated work force is possible only with investments in our state's system of higher education. 
 Meanwhile, the costs of college tuition, books and fees continue to rise as federal and state financing for higher education has decreased. Because of that, middle-class students who have to rely on loans to pay tuition are saddled with increasing debt. And lower-income New Yorkers are less likely to attend college and more likely to remain in poverty and dependent on government assistance as a result. 
 Recent national data shows that the graduation rate for high-income students in four-year colleges is 66 percent higher than it is for low-income students. And this school year's fixed rate for federal Stafford Loans is now more than 6.5 percent. Two years ago, the rate averaged below 3 percent. What's more, the president's proposed budget for next year eliminates federal financing of low-interest Perkins Loans, which are available to students through their institutions, and has again frozen Pell Grants at a maximum of only $4,050 per student for the fifth consecutive year. 
 In the wake of these federal assaults, state action is even more critical. Fortunately, in New York, the Legislature has rejected Gov. George Pataki's efforts to cut the Tuition Assistance Program, the Higher Education Opportunity Program and the Education Opportunity Program. The Legislature also overrode the governor's vetoes of increases in financing for the State University of New York and the City University of New York. 
 And that's good because investment in these programs have benefited the state in many ways. For instance, 80 percent of Education Opportunity Program students remain in the state after graduating, returning more than $200 million in revenue to New York through income and sales tax. Similarly, students who were provided financial assistance through the state and city university programs returned an additional $130 million every year. And yet the state's investment in these programs has been a small fraction of our return. 
 But simply restoring these attempted cuts is not enough. In addition to investing in education opportunity programs, and systems like SUNY and CUNY, Albany needs to encourage college graduation rates by increasing scholarships and student aid, lowering interest costs on student loans and instituting loan forgiveness programs for students who commit to public service careers in fields where the state faces shortages, like teaching, nursing and firefighting. 
 All parents, of course, want their children to have the best opportunities for their future. We need to consider that logic and understand that the future of New York State's economy depends on providing access to higher education and to job opportunities after graduation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); GRADUATION RATES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); VETO (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); LABOR SHORTAGES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition; Law and Legislation ; Scholarships and Fellowships; Student Loans; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York; City University of New York

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Liz (Sen) Krueger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



352 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; At Odds Over Schools; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Tensions rise after Orthodox Jews take control of a school board on Long Island. 

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: LAWRENCE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
THIS school district has been changing, house by house, as Orthodox Jewish families have flocked here over the last two decades, gradually at first and then in growing numbers.
 While not yet a majority, the Orthodox have nonetheless emerged as the dominant force in a clash of cultures. And the front line in this battle is Lawrence's once highly regarded public school system.
In each of the last four years, Orthodox voters mobilized to defeat the school budget -- one of the longest losing streaks on Long Island. Then in July, they took charge of the school board, though few of the Orthodox send their children to public schools. Out of seven seats, the new majority consists of four Orthodox members and one ally.
 ''We have the control here,'' one Orthodox resident, David M. Hiller, said recently as he walked along Central Avenue, a retail hub featuring shops like SuperSol (''the ultimate Kosher supermarket'') and Jerusalem Pizza. 
 Schools may seem to be a peculiar battlefield in this power struggle, since most Orthodox families here send their children to private Orthodox day schools. But many of this district's Orthodox residents object to paying school taxes that average about $6,000 per home for a system they do not use. Their leaders also complain that more public money should be channeled to the Orthodox day schools, which by law are limited to tax-financed busing, books and special education services. 
 Others who live in the Lawrence school district, however, including many assimilated Jews, voice outrage that people who do not use the system are deciding its fate. They complain that the budget defeats have starved the schools and deprived its students. Since the law allows some increases after budget defeats, spending in Lawrence since the last approved budget in 2002-3 has risen an average of about 3 percent a year. The current total is $92 million. 
 ''We feel invaded,'' said an Atlantic Beach delicatessen customer, a self-described non-Orthodox Jew and activist parent who declined to give her name. ''We don't mind them being here, but taking over and shutting down the school system is not the right thing.'' (Atlantic Beach is part of the Lawrence school district.) 
 But one of the new Orthodox board members, Uri Kaufman, a developer, said: ''We want to get along. I know nobody believes it, but we really want what's best for the district.''
 Experts who track expanding Orthodox neighborhoods around the nation say the conflict in Lawrence has far-reaching implications.
 ''Other communities are watching Lawrence very closely, for fear they may be next,'' said Prof. William B. Helmreich, the director of the Center for Jewish Studies at Queens College. Orthodox adherents ''are cohesive, they marshal forces and vote as a bloc,'' he said. ''It could happen anywhere.'' 
 It has already happened in Rockland County, where Orthodox residents control the East Ramapo school board. Similar strains have arisen over the schools and other services in Lakewood, N.J., home to a large Orthodox population.
 Since the 1980's Lawrence has evolved as a suburban outpost for Orthodox Jews as they moved from Brooklyn and Far Rockaway in Queens, adjacent to Lawrence.
 Public school enrollment is 3,400 today, down from a peak of almost 8,200 in 1968. Empty schools have closed; one was sold and converted to an Orthodox day school. Because Orthodox families are typically large, Orthodox Jewish day schools boomed. Enrollment there and in other private schools has reached 4,000 students.
 Orthodox leaders here say they want to preserve and improve the schools while cutting waste. Orthodox residents, straining to pay annual private tuitions of $8,000 to $20,000, contend that their schools deserve help because they spare taxpayers the cost of educating Orthodox children. Their critics argue that such aid would be illegal. 
 Distrust has spread, and each side has accused the other of bad faith and bigotry. 
 ''It's ominous,'' said Steven Sanders, a former New York City assemblyman who was chairman of the State Assembly's Education Committee. ''This is not going to be an isolated situation. This is a worrisome trend. The common thread is not religion. The common thread is people who don't feel invested in educating other people's children. What do you do when a community is significantly comprised of individuals who don't have a stake in public schools when they're already spending for private schools? It's a fracturing of the social compact.''
 Some Atlantic Beach residents have explored seceding from the Lawrence district and merging with Long Beach, although the process would be daunting. 
 MANY who object to the Orthodox dominance question their motives. ''If your kids don't go to public schools, how can you be head of the board?'' said Robert Smith, who is a resident of Inwood, which is also part of the Lawrence school district, and who works at a community center. ''It's forcing people out.'' 
 Mr. Kaufman, the school board member who said fears about the new Orthodox majority were misplaced, has nonetheless joked about needing a bulletproof vest, and at a board meeting this summer angrily admonished some foes as ''you public school parents.'' 
 Mr. Kaufman was furious when the departing board approved a teachers' contract without the performance standards he had wanted. ''What the lame duck board did was undemocratic,'' he said. ''My three-year term was usurped by a five-year contact. We're not going to be able to do anything we wanted to do. I don't know where we're going to get the money.'' 
 Defenders of the contract say its annual raises -- from zero to 2.75 percent -- are below inflation. 
 The rift took a litigious turn in June when the incoming Orthodox majority went to court in an unsuccessful bid to block the old board from approving the teachers' contract. Then in July, Fu-Yun Tang, a mother of three Lawrence students, formally petitioned state education officials to remove three Orthodox school board members from office, accusing them of ''furthering an anti-public school agenda.'' A decision is not expected for months.
 Acknowledging the divide, Mr. Hiller, a recent yeshiva graduate, said: ''They think they're right, and we think we're right. But I'm very happy about the new school board.''
 Echoing other Orthodox voters, he said he would like to see public financing for school buses on Sundays, for Orthodox day schools that operate six days. Mr. Kaufman, the board member, has called for busing for prekindergarten, for public and private schools, a service that the old board cut because of the budget defeats. 
 A number of Orthodox residents declined to comment when approached in public. But on the Orthomom blog, an anonymous Orthodox supporter complained of ''having to pay twice'' for taxes and tuition. An unidentified critic replied, ''Maybe you should take advantage of public education or move back to Brooklyn.'' The Orthodox supporter countered: ''It seems a better solution is that you should move. After all, you're the one who seems unhappy with how the neighborhood is changing.''
 Founded long ago as wealthy resort, the Lawrence area still has estates. The median home value is $630,000, and the median family income is $130,000. But it also has low-income areas in the district, which includes North Lawrence, Atlantic Beach, East Atlantic Beach, Atlantic Beach Estates, Inwood, Cedarhurst and parts of Woodmere and North Woodmere. ''We have very wealthy citizens and pockets of real poverty,'' said John T. Fitzsimons, the schools superintendent.
 Half the students are black or Hispanic, and 36 percent are eligible for a free or discounted lunch, a poverty indicator. ''Yet we had seven Intel scholars this year, tied with Bronx High School of Science and fifth in the nation,'' Dr. Fitzsimons said. ''We're no slouches.''
 Once top rated academically, Lawrence has seen its academic scores and graduation rates slip, declines often noted by Orthodox leaders. Some defenders of the public schools say those trends stem from the steady shift of strong-scoring students to Orthodox day schools. Average spending per public student is about $24,000, one of the highest levels on Long Island. That figure is inflated, however, by the cost of busing, books and other programs for thousands of Orthodox day school students.
 ORTHODOX leaders have attacked the district as wasteful. ''We're paying elite salaries and getting a mediocre district,'' Mr. Kaufman said. 
 Over the years Orthodox groups have clashed with other residents on issues like zoning, large homes for big families, store closings on the Sabbath and eruvs, or symbolic boundaries that allow Orthodox Jews to carry things on the Sabbath. But the schools have led to the greatest tensions, and the friction seems especially intense with more assimilated Jews. ''As a fellow Jew, it upsets me even more,'' Pamela Greenbaum, a non-Orthodox school board member, said of the aims of the Orthodox leaders.
 Dennis Brown, a real estate broker and former school board member, said: ''I don't think Lawrence or the Five Towns is a community anymore. It's different communities, everyone turning against everyone else.''
 The mayor of Lawrence, Dr. Jack Levenbrown, who is Orthodox, voiced regret that ''there are people on both sides who say things they shouldn't, in the heat of passion.''
 That sense of division was reflected in an editorial in the high school newspaper in June. A graduating senior, Allison Douglas, wrote: ''It remains to be seen whether the adults who are in charge of the district will make the right decisions.''
 One of those in charge, Dr. Fitzsimons, meets often with Orthodox school educators and, like many leaders, said he remained hopeful. But he wondered, ''What's the lesson we're teaching the children?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: FRICTION -- Uri Kaufman, one of the new Orthodox Jewish members on the school board in Lawrence, says of the Orthodox: ''We want to get along. I know nobody believes it, but we really want what's best for the district.'' (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FAMILY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); RELIGION (78%); TAX LAW (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); RETAILERS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (52%) Education and Schools; Jews; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Education and Schools

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

PERSON: Bruce Lambert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Lawrence (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



353 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Hope and Housing 

 BODY:
Housing is one of those emotional terms, like terrorism and global warming, that bring out a weird sort of anxious fatalism in people. Everyone knows that affordable housing is scarcer than ever, that entire regions like Fairfield County have become practically off limits to young people and the working class, and that the only way to deal with the problem is through passive acceptance or abject surrender: turning half of one's gross income over to the mortgage or moving to the Dakotas.
 But not everyone is giving up. A report in July by two nonprofit groups, the Citizens Housing and Planning Council and the Regional Plan Association, offers a big-picture dissection of the housing crisis that can leave a reader feeling not overwhelmed, but hopeful. While acknowledging that the housing squeeze poses a serious threat to the region's economy and quality of life, and that the situation has become worse in recent years, the report, ''Balanced Housing for a Smart Region'' (available at chpcny.org or rpa.org), is bursting with strategies and tactics for attacking the problem on multiple fronts. 
In Connecticut, such strategies are desperately needed. The rapid escalation of home prices since 2004 has reduced the number of Connecticut towns with ''affordable'' median home prices from 67 to just 12 -- and none were in Fairfield or New Haven Counties. 
 The report sets forth several useful principles, among them these: 
 Sprawl is not an option. The region will need to create housing for an estimated three million to four million people in the next 25 years, but this time there will be no Robert Moses to lead the multitudes into the promised land, because there is no such place. Yes, parts of eastern Long Island, New Jersey, the Hudson Valley and upper Fairfield County, particularly near Danbury, still have room left for traditional single-family homes on suburban-style lots, but this region's commutes are already the longest in the country, and there is a limit to how much bulldozing of open space people can tolerate. 
 The good news is that the region is rich in poor cities, industrial wastelands and other underused properties. Connecticut in particular has sought to turn the curse of blight into a virtue, seeking, in places like Bridgeport, to resurrect brownfield sites and abandoned buildings for housing. 
 'High-density' is not a dirty word. And neither is ''affordable housing.'' Communities throughout the region have long fiercely opposed the obvious answer to the housing shortage, which is to build more apartment buildings and other forms of multifamily housing and subsidized housing for people with low and moderate incomes. Some of the resistance comes from plain old white-flight racism, but some stems from the not-unreasonable belief that newcomers with children burden the schools and end up costing a community more than they pay in taxes. 
 The report concedes that this is true in many cases, but certainly not all. And it says that remedies are available. Not every household has children; the elderly people, divorced singles and young couples who make up a significant part of the housing market can generate large tax surpluses in a community. A smart mix of new housing, in other words, can help, not hurt, a community's fiscal bottom line. 
 Smart is better than dumb. Properly understood and executed, the philosophy of ''smart growth'' encompasses the notion of walkable communities, ready access to mass transit and architecture that is dense and compact but attractively built. If the region is ever going to break its addiction to the car and the curses of low-density sprawl and traffic congestion, communities arranged on smart-growth principles will lead the way. 
 Big government is not the problem. Little government is. Hundreds of local municipalities control decisions about land use, and their individual acts of resistance to housing solutions have left the whole region worse off. But states can help, first by developing broad strategies for planning and managing growth. The report holds up New Jersey as a model for the nation, while giving Connecticut mixed marks. Connecticut rarely challenges the tradition of home rule that gives communities final say on land use; even worse, the state has all but abandoned any commitment to affordable housing. Connecticut spent $121 million on affordable housing in 1990, but it spends only about $20 million today. 
 States and localities can use other means to spur affordable housing, by breaking the link between school financing and property taxes -- a huge disincentive to low-cost housing -- by giving money to nonprofit groups to buy and preserve housing, and by creating state housing trust funds that can be used to create mixed-income housing.
 We're all in this together. The report stresses that the region's far-flung suburbs are all extremities of one social and economic organism. Solutions in one area will help communities in another. The region is large, sprawling and full of competing interests and rivalries, but affordable housing is the quandary that unites us all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); SUBURBS (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); LAND USE PLANNING (79%); TERRORISM (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); CHILDREN (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITIES (65%); BROWNFIELD SITES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Housing; Editorials; Suburbs

ORGANIZATION: Citizens Housing and Planning Council; Regional Plan Assn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (55%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



354 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Combine and Fail 

BYLINE: By Kevin E. Ciak. 
Kevin E. Ciak, a member of the Sayreville Board of Education in Middlesex County, is the president of the New Jersey School Boards Association.

DATELINE: Trenton 

 BODY:
WHAT is frequently billed as the major solution to New Jersey's property tax woes -- consolidating school districts -- is no solution at all. And while consolidation sounds like a cost saver, it could actually cost more money.
 There are 603 school districts in New Jersey, and while many communities have considered expanding educational and extracurricular offerings by merging with their neighbors over the years, something stops them dead in their tracks. And it's not home rule; it's property taxes. 
That's right, property tax increases are the deal breakers when it comes to school district consolidation. New tax rates result from adjustments to each town's contribution to the newly formed merged school system, based on varying levels of property wealth. Invariably, one of the towns in the proposed district discovers that the merger would result in higher property taxes. The plans die on the vine or, if they reach the voters, they are defeated at the polls.
 If the New Jersey Legislature is serious about encouraging school district consolidation, it needs to address this financial obstacle. It also has to leave the final decision to communities. Otherwise, a tax-reform initiative could turn into a huge tax increase for many New Jersey communities. In fact, a 1999 Assembly report, the most recent statewide study of the issue, arrived at that same conclusion. 
 School operating costs could also increase under consolidation. A major factor involves automatic salary increases. New Jersey law requires that the salary of all staff members in any newly formed consolidated school system conform to the levels in place in the largest district before the merger. In many cases, that means big increases in personnel costs since the largest district usually has the highest salaries. 
 Creating a new, larger school district, with more schools, could also result in new student transportation costs. And while consolidation might eliminate one or more superintendent positions, this front-office downsizing could be offset by the creation of new positions needed by a larger district to coordinate curricular programs or special services.
 Of course, consolidation could save money in some instances, but those savings cannot be guaranteed across the board. That reason, more than any other, is why the decision to merge must be made by communities, case by case.
 I don't mean to suggest that consolidation is always a bad thing and always costs money, but feasibility studies that determine the educational and economic impact on the consolidation proposals must be done beforehand and communities must have the final say.
 The Legislature would be wise to give priority to promoting shared services among public schools and municipalities, rather than forcing a cookie-cutter approach to consolidation that could increase costs. The Northern Valley school district in Bergen County is an excellent example of shared services working well for several communities. It provides special education services, staff training and curriculum development with the seven independent elementary school districts whose students attend its two high schools. 
 As a result, the seven communities are able to control costs and ensure continuity of curriculum and educational quality for their students through high school. These types of cost-saving efforts can be done through current school district configurations without having to consolidate districts. 
 Property tax reform is a complicated task. It cannot rest on a simplistic solution like a mandated reduction in the number of school districts, a strategy that would have limited financial benefit and could increase costs. Instead, reform will require objective consideration of a range of ideas that address government structure, state aid to schools and public employee compensation, while safeguarding academic opportunity and achievement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (92%); PROPERTY TAX (92%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (73%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%); TAX REFORM (72%); LEGISLATION (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (64%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (50%) Education and Schools; Taxation; Property Taxes; Law and Legislation; Education and Schools

PERSON: Kevin E Ciak

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



355 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Too Poor to Graduate 

BYLINE: By Liz Krueger. 
Liz Krueger is the state senator representing New York's 26th district.

 BODY:
HERE'S something to think about as college students across the state settle into campus life.
 According to a recently released study by the Department of Education, paying for college is a greater burden for New Yorkers than in any other state. The costs for low- and middle-income students to attend public universities and community colleges here represent nearly 50 percent of their annual family income. Furthermore, a new study on higher education put out by the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, a nonprofit group, gave New York a failing grade for affordability.
This growing financial burden has resulted in more post-college debt and has forced students to work longer hours to make ends meet while in school and to take longer to complete degrees. This has translated into lower graduation rates. And yet the demand for entry-level workers with college degrees continues to spread. 
 Who loses when this happens? New York businesses, which are left with a shortage of employees. If our workers fail to meet the intellectual and educational demands of 21st-century businesses, then businesses will leave the state, just as many young adults who can't afford to live here are doing and will do if they can't find jobs. A stable and growing economy needs an educated work force, and an educated work force is possible only with investments in our state's system of higher education. 
 Meanwhile, the costs of college tuition, books and fees continue to rise as federal and state financing for higher education has decreased. Because of that, middle-class students who have to rely on loans to pay tuition are saddled with increasing debt. And lower-income New Yorkers are less likely to attend college and more likely to remain in poverty and dependent on government assistance as a result. 
 Recent national data shows that the graduation rate for high-income students in four-year colleges is 66 percent higher than it is for low-income students. And this school year's fixed rate for federal Stafford Loans is now more than 6.5 percent. Two years ago, the rate averaged below 3 percent. What's more, the president's proposed budget for next year eliminates federal financing of low-interest Perkins Loans, which are available to students through their institutions, and has again frozen Pell Grants at a maximum of only $4,050 per student for the fifth consecutive year. 
 In the wake of these federal assaults, state action is even more critical. Fortunately, in New York, the Legislature has rejected Gov. George Pataki's efforts to cut the Tuition Assistance Program, the Higher Education Opportunity Program and the Education Opportunity Program. The Legislature also overrode the governor's vetoes of increases in financing for the State University of New York and the City University of New York. 
 And that's good because investment in these programs have benefited the state in many ways. For instance, 80 percent of Education Opportunity Program students remain in the state after graduating, returning more than $200 million in revenue to New York through income and sales tax. Similarly, students who were provided financial assistance through the state and city university programs returned an additional $130 million every year. And yet the state's investment in these programs has been a small fraction of our return. 
 But simply restoring these attempted cuts is not enough. In addition to investing in education opportunity programs, and systems like SUNY and CUNY, Albany needs to encourage college graduation rates by increasing scholarships and student aid, lowering interest costs on student loans and instituting loan forgiveness programs for students who commit to public service careers in fields where the state faces shortages, like teaching, nursing and firefighting. 
 All parents, of course, want their children to have the best opportunities for their future. We need to consider that logic and understand that the future of New York State's economy depends on providing access to higher education and to job opportunities after graduation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); GRADUATION RATES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); VETO (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); LABOR SHORTAGES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition ; Scholarships and Fellowships; Law and Legislation ; Student Loans; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York; City University of New York 

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Liz (Sen) Krueger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



356 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Hope and Housing 

 BODY:
Housing is one of those emotional terms, like terrorism and global warming, that bring out a weird sort of anxious fatalism in places like New Jersey. Everyone knows that affordable housing is scarcer than ever; that entire counties have become practically off limits to young people, the elderly and the working class. The usual choices are passive acceptance or abject surrender: turning over half of one's gross income to the mortgage or moving to the Dakotas. 
 But not everyone. A report in July by two nonprofit groups, the Citizens Housing and Planning Council and the Regional Plan Association, offers a big-picture dissection of the housing crisis that can leave a reader feeling not overwhelmed, but hopeful. While acknowledging that the housing squeeze poses a serious threat to the region's economy and quality of life, the report, ''Balanced Housing for a Smart Region'' (available at chpcny.org or rpa.org), is bursting with strategies and tactics for attacking the problem from multiple angles. It is also informed by sound principles, among them these: 
Sprawl is not an option. New York, New Jersey and Connecticut will need to create housing for an estimated three million to four million people in the next 25 years; New Jersey alone will need to accommodate an estimated one million newcomers. 
 But where to put them? Some parts of the region -- Hunterdon, Sussex and Warren Counties in New Jersey, for instance -- still have room left for traditional single-family homes on suburban-style lots. But the region's commutes are already the longest in the country, and there is a limit to how far people can drive and how much bulldozing of open space they will tolerate. The age of buildout seems nearly at hand. 
 The good news is that the region, not least New Jersey, is rich in poor cities, empty industrial sites, desolate shopping malls and other underused properties. The trick is to see them not as blight but as opportunities for redevelopment and repopulation.
 'High density' is not a dirty word. And neither is ''affordable housing.'' Proposals for affordable multifamily housing often run afoul of the not-unreasonable fear that newcomers with children burden the schools and end up costing a community more than they pay in taxes. 
 The report concedes that, but argues that not every household has children, and that elderly people, divorced singles and young couples who make up a significant part of the housing market can generate large tax surpluses in a community. A proper mix of new housing, in other words, can help, not hurt, a community's fiscal bottom line. 
 Smart is better than dumb. Properly conceived and executed, the philosophy of ''smart growth'' involves walkable communities, ready access to mass transit, and architecture that is dense and compact but attractively built. 
 New Jersey seems to be getting the message. High-density projects have been built or are underway adjacent to train stations in places like South Orange, Union Township and Cranford. This is a hopeful sign. If the region is ever going to break its addiction to the car and end the curse of low-density sprawl, communities arranged on smart-growth principles will lead the way. 
 Big government is not the problem. Little government is. Hundreds of local municipalities make decisions about land use, and their individual acts of resistance to housing solutions have left the whole region worse off. State and county governments cannot rely on the bully pulpit alone; they need broad strategies for planning and managing growth. The report describes New Jersey's plan as one of the nation's most comprehensive. The rest of the tristate region scores lower: Connecticut's plan is purely advisory, and New York's is nonexistent. 
 But despite growing sensitivity to the problem among state legislators, New Jersey still suffers from what the report calls the biggest barrier to creation of new multifamily and affordable housing -- the destructive link between school financing and property taxes. Michigan replaced local property taxes with a grab bag of other revenue sources, including a statewide property tax and excise and real-estate transfer taxes, thereby eliminating one local rationale for opposing affordable housing.
 State governments can take other steps to encourage affordable housing. New Jersey has already tried one tactic the report finds promising: inclusionary zoning requiring that a certain percentage of new housing be affordable, which was mandated by the Mount Laurel court rulings of the 70's and 80's. The results have been positive, but clouded by legal battles, leading the report's authors to conclude that governments should not wait upon ''distant and unpredictable court decisions.''
 We're all in this together. The report concludes by stressing that the region's far-flung suburbs are all extremities of one social and economic organism. It's an integrated body, and solutions in one area will help communities elsewhere. The region is large, sprawling and full of competing interests and rivalries, but affordable housing is the quandary that unites us all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CHILDREN (86%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); TERRORISM (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); AGING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CITY LIFE (67%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (64%); CITIES (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RETAILERS (50%) Housing; Editorials; Suburbs

ORGANIZATION: Citizens Housing and Planning Council; Regional Plan Assn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



357 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Life at Sea Is Not What It Used to Be, and Fishermen Blame Quotas

BYLINE: By SHELLY FEUER DOMASH

DATELINE: POINT LOOKOUT, N.Y. 

 BODY:
TIME seems to have stopped on the Princess Marie, one of the dozens of charter fishing boats on the waters off Long Island's South Shore. People are fishing much the way they have for decades. The sky may be a threatening gray, the air cold and heavy with moisture, and the waters rough, but a hardy group still shares the eagerness for that first catch and the anticipation of taking it home for dinner.
 The captain of the 65-foot boat, Dennis Kanyuk, 54, has spent most of his life on the water. But his life is no longer as simple as it once was. On a trip three to four miles off-shore late last month, he spent much of his time denouncing some politicians and what he says are senseless regulations that in the past 10 years have been ruining the recreational fishing industry. When not piloting the boat or talking with his customers, he was on his cellphone planning strategies that he hopes will save the industry. 
It was not always this way for Mr. Kanyuk. But the industry has changed since he bought his own boat more than 30 years ago. 
 According to Mr. Kanyuk, who is the president of the United Boatmen Association of New York, the major changes started in 1996 with amendments to the federal Magnuson-Stevens fishery conservation act, which set standards and quotas for the amount and size of various species caught by recreational and commercial fishermen. The purpose of the regulations was to prevent overfishing and to rebuild fishing stocks. 
 Every year the regulations are reviewed, and every year the fishing industry must adapt to any revisions. Also changing yearly is the time allotted for fishing for certain species. Most of the time, Mr. Kanyuk said, the owners of recreational fishing charters like his are not informed until just weeks before the regulations go into effect, making it difficult to book charters in advance. 
 Standards also vary for commercial and recreational fishermen. Commercial fishermen are generally allowed a larger amount and a smaller size of fish. For example, recreational fishermen can keep fluke, or summer flounder, only if the fish are 18 inches or longer; for commercial fishermen the standard is 14 inches. 
 ''Years ago people left with buckets filled with fish,'' Mr. Kanyuk said. ''Now they just want to go home with something. What is the fun of it if you go out fishing all day and then have to go to a fish market and buy the fish you had to throw away?''
 The recreational fishing industry has a big impact. According to New York Sea Grant, a nonprofit research group, the industry contributed $1.3 billion to the state's economy in 1996 (the most recent year for which it has numbers), using 1999 dollars. But the number of charter boats has decreased 50 percent in recent years, Mr. Kanyuk said.
 So he continues his own campaign, handing out a prepared letter to his customers and asking them to fill in their personal information so he can send it to their congressmen. Among other things, the letter says that while the number of fluke caught in Atlantic coastal waters is at the highest level ever, the quota is expected to be reduced -- to 5.2 million pounds from 23 million pounds -- which would result in ''the destruction of livelihoods and devastation to fishing communities.''
 Mr. Kanyuk said that he was not against regulations but that he wanted them to be more realistic. 
 In a recent news release, Senator Charles E. Schumer also predicted that there would be dire consequences if the regulations were not loosened. He said that the federal regulations that are expected to be put in place next season, with their 78.5 percent reduction in the quota on pounds of fluke, ''will virtually close the fishing industry in New York.''
 Mr. Kanyuk said the regulations had already affected him. While his operating costs have increased, he says, his business is down 25 percent over the past five years.
 Still, he questions how a price can be put on watching a young child catch his first fish or seeing a father and son on their first outing. Out on the ocean, he says, youngsters do not need computer games to keep them occupied; they learn to enjoy the basics of life.
 ''It is something families can do together, but what is going to happen in the future?'' said Mr. Kanyuk, whose father taught him to fish. ''I don't know how much longer I can do this.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AT THE WHEEL -- Dennis Kanyuk leads a boating trade group.
 BACK HOME -- The Princess Marie, the fishing boat captained by Mr. Kanyuk, returning from a chartered tour. (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (89%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (89%); FISHES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (78%); FISHERIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FINFISH FISHING (58%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Commercial; Fishing, Sport; Quotas

ORGANIZATION: United Boatmen Assn of New York

PERSON: Shelly Feuer Domash; Dennis Kanyuk

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Long Island (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



358 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Too Poor to Graduate 

BYLINE: By Liz Krueger. 
Liz Krueger is the state senator representing New York's 26th district.

 BODY:
HERE'S something to think about as college students across the state settle into campus life.
 According to a recently released study by the Department of Education, paying for college is a greater burden for New Yorkers than in any other state. The costs for low- and middle-income students to attend public universities and community colleges here represent nearly 50 percent of their annual family income. Furthermore, a new study on higher education put out by the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, a nonprofit group, gave New York a failing grade for affordability.
This growing financial burden has resulted in more post-college debt and has forced students to work longer hours to make ends meet while in school and to take longer to complete degrees. This has translated into lower graduation rates. And yet the demand for entry-level workers with college degrees continues to spread. 
 Who loses when this happens? New York businesses, which are left with a shortage of employees. If our workers fail to meet the intellectual and educational demands of 21st-century businesses, then businesses will leave the state, just as many young adults who can't afford to live here are doing and will do if they can't find jobs. A stable and growing economy needs an educated work force, and an educated work force is possible only with investments in our state's system of higher education. 
 Meanwhile, the costs of college tuition, books and fees continue to rise as federal and state financing for higher education has decreased. Because of that, middle-class students who have to rely on loans to pay tuition are saddled with increasing debt. And lower-income New Yorkers are less likely to attend college and more likely to remain in poverty and dependent on government assistance as a result. 
 Recent national data shows that the graduation rate for high-income students in four-year colleges is 66 percent higher than it is for low-income students. And this school year's fixed rate for federal Stafford Loans is now more than 6.5 percent. Two years ago, the rate averaged below 3 percent. What's more, the president's proposed budget for next year eliminates federal financing of low-interest Perkins Loans, which are available to students through their institutions, and has again frozen Pell Grants at a maximum of only $4,050 per student for the fifth consecutive year. 
 In the wake of these federal assaults, state action is even more critical. Fortunately, in New York, the Legislature has rejected Gov. George Pataki's efforts to cut the Tuition Assistance Program, the Higher Education Opportunity Program and the Education Opportunity Program. The Legislature also overrode the governor's vetoes of increases in financing for the State University of New York and the City University of New York. 
 And that's good because investment in these programs have benefited the state in many ways. For instance, 80 percent of Education Opportunity Program students remain in the state after graduating, returning more than $200 million in revenue to New York through income and sales tax. Similarly, students who were provided financial assistance through the state and city university programs returned an additional $130 million every year. And yet the state's investment in these programs has been a small fraction of our return. 
 But simply restoring these attempted cuts is not enough. In addition to investing in education opportunity programs, and systems like SUNY and CUNY, Albany needs to encourage college graduation rates by increasing scholarships and student aid, lowering interest costs on student loans and instituting loan forgiveness programs for students who commit to public service careers in fields where the state faces shortages, like teaching, nursing and firefighting. 
 All parents, of course, want their children to have the best opportunities for their future. We need to consider that logic and understand that the future of New York State's economy depends on providing access to higher education and to job opportunities after graduation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (94%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); GRADUATION RATES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); VETO (75%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (75%); LABOR SHORTAGES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); LEGISLATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Law and Legislation; Tuition; Scholarships and Fellowships; Student Loans; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: State University of New York; City University of New York

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Liz (Sen) Krueger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



359 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; When 'Help Wanted' Comes With a Catch; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: 'Re-Entry' Is Often Grueling for Ex-Cons, Despite Laws and Programs to Aid Them

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

 BODY:
AFTER four years in prison for a robbery conviction, Christopher Ortiz says, he spent nearly two years being rejected for one unskilled job after another. Finally, a few months ago, he landed work handling stock at a food company.
 Mr. Ortiz, a 24-year-old Bronx resident, said he believed that his criminal record was the reason for the rejections, including 20 by companies that interviewed him.
Tausha Haynes, 29, of Syracuse did not get jail terms for her guilty pleas to petty larceny in two cases and to disorderly conduct in a third. But her effort to turn her life around by becoming a licensed practical nurse has been stymied by her criminal record -- and inaccuracies that made it look even worse, according to Ms. Haynes and a group that is helping her correct the record. 
 Mr. Ortiz's and Ms. Haynes's stories are hardly unusual. And rehabilitation experts say that an inability to find a job is a reason that many people with criminal records get into further trouble. 
 In the 1980's and 90's, as crime rates climbed sharply in the nation, rehabilitation often took a back seat as politicians and criminal-justice officials focused more on providing harsher sentencing than on cutting recidivism. 
 In the last few years, though, after a general drop in the crime rates since the mid-90's, officials and politicians, even conservatives like President Bush, are stressing the need for rehabilitation programs, including those dealing with employment. The programs are now called re-entry more often than rehabilitation, as in re-entry to law-abiding society. 
 In that context, a report in May by a special committee of the New York State Bar Association said the state needed to do much more to reduce the major hurdles, in employment and other aspects of rehabilitation, that confront people with criminal records. 
 The Pataki administration's director of criminal justice, Chauncey G. Parker, said at a legislative hearing earlier this year that he was confident the administration's efforts ''will be looked upon as a model for other states.'' He cited programs that included vocational training, access to education and drug abuse treatment. 
 But the panel of lawyers said wider-reaching state action was necessary. Its recommendations include making more effective a current state law prohibiting unwarranted discrimination against job applicants who have criminal records; people with such records and their advocates say many employers do not comply with that law. 
 The bar association panel said, ''A demonstrated preference for hiring people without criminal records still exists.'' It cited other research showing that up to 60 percent of former prisoners in the state are unemployed one year after release. More than 25,000 prisoners have been released annually from New York State prisons in recent years, and thousands more after serving sentences in local jails. 
 The panel noted that under state law, an applicant considered qualified to do a job cannot be refused employment based on a criminal conviction unless there is a ''direct relationship'' between the offense and the job, or unless hiring the ex-convict poses an ''unreasonable risk'' to property or safety. To make those determinations, the panel said, the law requires the employer to ''engage in a balancing test,'' weighing factors like the job's specific duties, the applicant's age when the crime was committed and the time that has since elapsed. 
 An aversion to ex-convicts is not always the reason when employers violate that law, the panel added. Another concern for companies is that employers can be held liable for the criminal actions of their employees, under the theory of ''negligent hiring,'' the report said. 
 In the belief that reducing the fear of liability will lead to more hiring of people with criminal records, the panel recommended two new laws. 
 One would provide that in a lawsuit for negligent hiring based on the action of a worker with a criminal history, a demonstration that an employer complied with the balancing test would strengthen its defense. Evidence of compliance could be a simple worksheet on which the company indicated how it had assessed the factors in the test, the panel's report said. 
 The other proposal would establish a state program to provide employers with bonding to cover the cost of liability for negligent hiring if they lost such lawsuits. 
 The report also called for a law giving released prisoners free copies of their criminal records, to check that the records are accurate. Too often they are not, defense lawyers say. People receiving nonprison sentences would get their records at sentencing.
 Ms. Haynes, the Syracuse woman, said she suspected that her inaccurate record had played a role in her rejection by a hospital and a nursing home where she sought work as a licensed practical nurse after completing training for the work in June. ''I did so well on the interviews,'' she said. 
 Alan Rosenthal, an official in the Syracuse office of the Center for Community Alternatives, which helps convicted people, said that in addition to Ms. Haynes's convictions for petty larceny and disorderly conduct, her record had entries for assault and weapons possession -- which applied to another Syracuse woman with a similar name and date of birth. Whether Ms. Haynes would have been hired with an accurate record is not known, but the errors were an added strike against her, said Mr. Rosenthal, who was a member of the bar association panel that produced the report. 
 (The report, ''Re-entry and Reintegration: The Road to Public Safety,'' is available at www.nysba.org through the ''sections/committees'' link to the Special Committee on Collateral Consequences of Criminal Proceedings 
 Reactions to the panel's recommendations varied among people who help those with criminal backgrounds find jobs. 
 Robert Carmona, president of Strive, a nonprofit group, called the recommendations ''perfectly valid.''
 Peter Cove, founder of America Works, a private company, said that while job discrimination against people with criminal records existed, it was not the major issue. The biggest problem, he said, is that there are too few programs to help such people find work. 
 The panel's chairman, Peter J. W. Sherwin, a partner with the law firm of Proskauer Rose, said the bar association had not yet decided whether to adopt the report as its official position, but he said he thought the recommended steps ''would make New York a better and safer place for all of us.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Christopher Ortiz of the Bronx, with his daughter Christina Jolie, says he was rejected for 20 jobs. (Photo by Richard Lee for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (91%); PRISONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); SENTENCING (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); ROBBERY (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); CONSERVATISM (66%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (60%); NURSES & NURSING (55%) Prisons and Prisoners; Labor; Law and Legislation; Discrimination; Prisons and Prisoners

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (59%) New York State Bar Assn 

PERSON: Joseph P Fried

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



360 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: For Insurance, Adult Children Ride Piggyback

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
Not only are children moving back home after college and asking Mom and Dad for monthly subsidies, but in a growing number of states children can now stay on their parents' health insurance plans well into their 20's.
 Call it another example of adultescence. With 18- to 34-year-olds the fastest growing group of uninsured, states are extending the time that children can be a dependent for insurance purposes.
In New Jersey, which this year enacted the highest age limit, children can ''piggyback'' until they turn 30, as long as they live in the state and don't have their own children. 
 The trend stems from a concern that a healthy -- and profitable -- segment of the population is dropping out of the insurance pool. About half of all states have studied such proposals, and at least nine have passed laws, eight of them since 2003 and three just this year, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
 Hilary Shinn, 23, of Wall Township, N.J., who likes competitive surfing and snowboarding, was graduating from Rutgers University last spring and had not decided whether she would have health insurance. 
 ''I'm a little accident-prone,'' said Ms. Shinn, who had a skateboarding accident on her way to her last class in May. ''It didn't really hit me until my mom brought it up: 'Hey, you are not going to be covered when you graduate. Let's figure something out.' '' 
 The New Jersey law allowed Ms. Shinn, who started graduate school at Monmouth University this semester, to stay on her father's plan, for an additional premium. 
 In contrast, a number of her friends are now without health insurance. ''If they get sick, they just don't address it, on the hope it will go away,'' she said. 
 About 30 percent of adults ages 18 to 24, and more than one-quarter of adults 25 to 34, are uninsured, though the average for all age groups is 16 percent, according to figures released by the Census Bureau in late August.
 It is not known how many people have taken advantage of extended coverage, because policies are administered by private companies and most of the changes have only recently taken effect. 
 The rise of uninsured young adults results from two main economic forces, analysts say. Changes in the workplace mean that fewer jobs now have full benefits, which disproportionately affects the newest workers. In addition, the rising cost of premiums, whether shared with an employer or paid individually, makes insurance less attractive to a relatively healthy population. 
 ''It's different from a generation ago,'' said Katherine Swartz, a professor of health policy at Harvard University who is the author of ''Reinsuring Health,'' a new book on the uninsured population. ''We have so many people not used to having health insurance.''
 For years, children have been allowed to stay on their parents' health insurance until they turned 19, or until they turned 22 or 23 if they remained full-time students. 
 Some of the laws extending the age of coverage allow insurers to charge extra premiums, which vary depending on the plan. They also have various restrictions, sometimes requiring that the child be a full-time student, be unmarried, reside in the state or even live with the parents. 
 In general, these laws do not apply to insurance plans financed by the employer -- as opposed to plans in which the employer buys coverage from an insurance company -- because self-insured plans, favored by some larger companies, are shielded from state rules and laws under the 1974 federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act. 
 Ms. Shinn's family pays several hundred dollars a month to add her to her father's plan, which is through his employer, Systems Technology, a satellite communications company. She could have bought insurance on her own for a similar price, but her father's plan provides better coverage, said Deborah Shinn, her mother. 
 ''I know that our children, if they didn't have family behind them, would never have an affordable choice,'' said Mrs. Shinn, who has four children. ''Between car insurance and just buying books for schools and normal day-to-day expenses, I really feel that she would never be able to earn enough income to cover the things that are important for us to have in place for her.'' 
 Before this year, laws extending health coverage were passed in Colorado, Massachusetts, New Mexico, South Dakota and Texas. Utah, where young Mormon men commonly complete two years of missionary work, passed the first law, in 1994. The governors of Delaware and Rhode Island signed such laws last July. 
 New York State has three bills in legislative committees to raise the age limit for children to 25, with various restrictions. Connecticut has a similar proposal in committee. 
 The availability of health insurance in the workplace has become a problem for young adults. One reason employers are reluctant to hire full-time employees is the rising cost of health insurance and other benefits. The percentage of employers offering health insurance dropped to 60 percent in 2005, down from 66 percent in 2000, according to a survey of employers conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation. 
 Thus, new graduates, from both high school and college, are entering a job market that is increasingly characterized by consulting, freelance and contract jobs. 
 And many employers that still offer insurance are asking employees to shoulder a higher share of the premiums, another reason young adults decline coverage, said Laura Tobler, a health policy analyst for the National Conference of State Legislatures. ''It's a cost-benefit analysis,'' she said.
 As a result, she said, states are ''looking for ways to reach out to these folks and doing it in the least expensive way possible.''
 Brian Merritt, a freelance technology consultant for a Fortune 500 company in New York City, checked on buying his own health insurance from the Freelancers Union but decided it was not worth the cost of nearly $200 a month. 
 ''Basically, I'm a healthy 31-year-old male,'' he said. ''The last three times I went to the doctor, everything was O.K. So I haven't felt the need for insurance.'' 
 He acknowledged the risk. ''If I trip on the sidewalk and fall and break my arm, I guess I am out of luck,'' Mr. Merritt said. ''Not only am I out medical costs, I can't work.''
 Other young adults said they had more pressing financial priorities. Tom Donatelli, a 29-year-old freelance cameraman from Brooklyn, is eager to reduce his credit-card and other debt. ''If I have extra money, then it's going to go toward debt that I already have, not debt that I might have,'' he said. 
 Health insurance companies have been supportive of the age extensions that funnel additional premiums into the system, because they are looking for ways to keep young adults in the insurance pool, said the assemblyman who sponsored New Jersey's bill, Neil M. Cohen. ''They can use that new revenue to make adjustments in the rest of the market,'' said Mr. Cohen, a Democrat of Roselle. 
 Susan Pisano, a spokeswoman for America's Health Insurance Plans, an industry group, said that while insurance companies generally did not oppose laws that extend the age limit by a couple of years, New Jersey's law, with the age ceiling of 30, might take it too far. 
 ''The law in New Jersey has the potential to drive up health care costs for employers, whereas the other ones do not depart as radically from the current situation in those states,'' Ms. Pisano said. ''Our members have been comfortable with what is going on elsewhere.''
 In Colorado, however, Leo Tokar, vice president for marketing and sales for Kaiser Permanente Colorado, said the added expense from that state's new law created a ''perverse incentive'' for companies to reduce insurance benefits. Employers there can either pass along additional premiums for the adult children -- who can stay on health plans until they reach age 25 -- to their parents or spread the extra cost among all employees. 
 ''Our opinion is it was absolutely the right direction to go, but it was the wrong way to go about doing it,'' Mr. Tokar said. 
 He said it was inappropriate to make employers that offer insurance serve ''as a conduit to address broader social issues.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob and Deborah Shinn, of Wall Township, in New Jersey, pay several hundred dollars a month to add Hilary, 23, to her father's health plan. (Photo by Joseph J. Delconzo for The New York Times)
 Tom Donatelli, a 29-year-old freelance cameraman from Brooklyn, decided not to carry health insurance. ''If I have extra money, then it's going to go toward debt that I already have, not debt that I might have,'' he said. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 29)Chart: ''The Young and Uninsured''With an increasing share of young adults lacking health insurance, some states have passed laws allowing children to remain under their parents' coverage through their mid-20's, and until 30 in New Jersey.Graphs track the following from 1987-2005:Total adults ages 18 to 34 without health insurance (in millions)Percentage of all adults ages 18 to 34 without health insurance(Source by U.S. Census Bureau)(pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); CENSUS (70%); WATER SPORTS (68%); EXTREME SPORTS (66%); SKATEBOARDING (65%); SURFING (52%); SNOWBOARDING (52%) Medicine and Health; States (US) ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Children and Youth; Age, Chronological; Labor; Fringe Benefits; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (55%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (55%)

PERSON: Jennifer 8 Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



361 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1582 words

HEADLINE: High School Football, Under Prime-Time Lights

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE; Thayer Evans contributed reporting.

DATELINE: CINCINNATI, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
Coach Bobby Bentley has done right by his alma mater, James F. Byrnes High School in Duncan, S.C. Over the past four years, his football team, the Rebels, has gone 60-2 and won four state championships. Nike outfits the team at no charge, and a new $320,000 JumboTron at their stadium shows high-resolution replays.
 The Rebels Touchdown Club raised the money, quite a feat for a town of about 3,000 whose landscape was once dotted by peach trees and whose history was entwined with backbreaking work in textile mills.
Last month, it was with great pride that the Rebel faithful watched their team defeat Glades Central of Florida in a nationally televised game on ESPN. 
 What has been the stuff of hometown legends, high school football has suddenly become high-definition, low-cost programming for national broadcasters and marketers eager to woo men 18 to 34. This year, 13 games will be shown on ESPN networks, and 8 on Fox Sports Net.
 This sudden attention has not only given coaches and administrators one of the biggest rushes of their lives, but has also put them in potentially dangerous territory. How do you take advantage of the exposure that often builds school and community pride without exploiting teenagers? How do you square business with education?
 ''I find myself studying marketing and business plans as much as I do game planning,'' said Bentley, who is also the Byrnes athletic director. ''I know our football success is broadening these kids' life experiences. I'm putting 80 kids on a plane this weekend, and 41 of them have never flown before. But you don't want to sell your soul to do these things.''
 On Saturday, more than 2,000 fans in Rebels blue traveled to the University of Cincinnati for a showdown with Archbishop Moeller, a perennial powerhouse in Ohio. Byrnes came from behind to win, 21-20.
 Bentley; his senior quarterback, Willy Korn, who signs autographs and requires a security escort on and off the field; and the town of Duncan will enjoy the spotlight once more on Oct. 19, when their game against in-state rival Gaffney will be televised nationally on Fox Sports Net.
 The demand for high school football has even crossed into prime-time culture.
 ''Friday Night Lights,'' a fictional series whose roots trace to a disturbing 1990 nonfiction book about a team from Texas by H. G. Bissinger, will have its premiere on NBC on Oct. 3. The current MTV reality series ''Two-a-Days'' follows the exploits of the 2005 Hoover High School Buccaneers of Alabama. It shows how a coach's ego and a community's zealousness can still corrode what is supposed to be a boys' game.
 Byrnes was one of nine teams from as far away as California, Florida and Texas to take part in this weekend's Ohio versus USA Challenge. It is an elite showcase created by Kirk Herbstreit, the ESPN/ABC college football game analyst and former Ohio State quarterback, and sponsored by McDonald's. 
 The event's organizers paid for airfare, lodging and meals for the teams from outside Ohio. Bentley has trouble scheduling in-state opponents, and this was an opportunity to see how his team stacked up with the nation's best. The Rebels are ranked No. 2 in the USA Today Super 25 high school poll, but six other ranked teams were headed to Cincinnati.
 ''I had an open date,'' Bentley, 38, said, ''and here was the guy you see on ESPN asking us to come play Moeller, a storied program, and see up close some of the best high school teams in America. And it doesn't cost us anything. I'd be an idiot not to take it.''
 Still, some high school athletic administrators are troubled by the big money and raised profile of what remains a treasured pastime for communities of every size.
 Jerome Singleton, executive director of the South Carolina High School League, said that he is all for having teams reach a national audience, but that he is wary of what may happen as some schools generate more money than others. Will rules be bent to build a powerhouse? Will the classroom take a back seat to big games?
 ''My concern is that we take something that is supposed to be educational and flip it over to purely entertainment,'' Singleton said. ''I understand these kids are getting to see parts of the country they may never have had the chance to, and to enjoy the thrill of a nationally televised game.'' But he is concerned that the telecasts focus on who gets scholarships and who may go pro. 
 ''If we base the success of high school athletics on those things, then we're a complete failure,'' Singleton said. ''It should be as much about the kid at the end of the bench as the one getting all the hype.''
 Hoover is ranked No. 1 in the USA Today poll, but the players have been eclipsed on ''Two-a-Days'' by their coach's bravura and bullying. The behavior of Hoover Coach Rush Propst on the show raises an age-old question: whom are high school sports actually for? In a memorable pep talk leading up to a nationally televised game, Propst said, ''I got my one shot, my one shot in life, to be on ESPN.''
 Soon after, he added: ''Ninety-five million homes are going to watch Hoover. How important is football to you? How important is it in this state of Alabama?''
 In fact, ESPN said 928,234 households watched Hoover's 50-29 victory over Nease of Florida on Aug. 27, 2005. Still, it was an impressive enough audience (especially for a noon-to-3:30 Saturday time slot) for ESPN to join with a marketing firm for 13 games this year, nine of them on the fledgling ESPNU.
 Burke Magnus, ESPNU's vice president and general manager, has heard the criticism that it is crossing the boundaries of exploitation. ESPN's ombudsman, George Solomon, for one, wrote in an online column on Aug. 31 that the network's push ''tells the world high school sports are about winning, big-time recruits and ratings -- but not education.''
 Magnus said: ''Is there a concern that there is an exploitive element to it? Absolutely. We think about it all the time, but we live in a different world than we did 15 years ago, and if people have an interest to get this content, they're going to find it.
 ''We're beyond the point of time where you can prevent something like this from pervading into culture. At the end of the day, I know we can look in the mirror and say we did it the right way.''
 Willy Korn, the Rebels' quarterback, experienced the reach of prep football last summer on a family vacation in Southern California. He was finishing dinner at a restaurant with his father and two brothers when a waiter asked if he was the Willy Korn. 
 ''It was wild because I was so far away from home,'' Korn said. ''But he was into recruiting and knew about me from the scouting services and message boards on the Internet.''
 Since then, Korn has appeared twice in Sports Illustrated, which has expanded its coverage of high school football. He has committed to Clemson University, where he was mobbed for autographs this month when he attended a game. 
 Fox Sports Net has been broadcasting high school games regionally for more than a decade and this year will televise 85 to 100, mostly in proven markets like Texas, California and Florida. Randy Freer, chief operating officer of Fox Sports Net, said it was offering a second season of national games for obvious reasons.
 ''One is the heightened interest across the country in high school football, and two, the interest by advertisers,'' Freer said.
 Nike, for example, is the lead sponsor for Fox Sports Net's high school package and a secondary sponsor for ESPN, and was ''heavily involved'' with ''Two-a-Days'' on MTV, said Dean Stoyer, a Nike spokesman. It also sponsors 20 high schools -- 13 of the top 20 in the USA Today football poll -- by outfitting all sports teams at each school. Stoyer called it a significant but worthwhile investment.
 ''We know that we're hitting that sweet spot that lives for it and who firmly believes that football is everything,'' Stoyer said.
 Coach Bentley said Nike's investment in Byrnes totaled $20,000 annually and was tangible. He added that he was still figuring out the economics of nationally televised games. 
 Neither Magnus of ESPN nor Freer of Fox Sports would divulge the cost and revenue associated with their broadcasts. Both said that deals were negotiated game-by-game and that schools were paid a nominal fee. When travel is necessary, the networks pay for it.
 Because ESPN and its marketing partner scheduled the Glades Central game on an open date for Byrnes, Bentley said he gave up the gate proceeds to the organizers but kept concession revenue.
 ''We made $28,000 on a day that we would have made zero,'' he said.
 Bentley said he believed the national exposure Byrnes and the town of Duncan received would be priceless. 
 The peach trees are mostly gone, and the textile mills are closed. Many people here work for BMW, Michelin and other international companies that line Interstate 85.
 Bentley is proud that all of his players since 1995 have graduated from high school and that 41 of them have earned college football scholarships to universities like Duke and Virginia Tech.
 With the median household income in Duncan at $27,974, a $5 ticket to watch the Rebels win a state title may be a luxury for some. Bentley said he would proceed cautiously.
 He can rely on a mantra that he embraced after his first two (losing) seasons as a head coach and that has since served him well.
 ''It's not so much about X's and O's,'' he said, ''as it is about the Jimmys and Joes.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: National networks are broadcasting high school football games, like this one in Seffner, Fla., on Friday night. (Photo by Charity Beck for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
ESPN broadcast a game between two Florida schools, Armwood High School and Jefferson High School, at Armwood's stadium in Seffner, Fla. (Photo by Charity Beck for The New York Times)
Coach Bobby Bentley talking about his team at James F. Byrnes High School in Duncan, S.C. The team, top, took the field before it beat Archbishop Moeller yesterday as part of the Ohio versus USA challenge. (Photo by Anna McQuade for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Tom Uhlman for The New York Times)(pg. 6)Map of South Carolina highlighting Duncan. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (93%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); CABLE TELEVISION (74%); MARKETING PLAN (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); BUSINESS PLANS (70%); RELIGION (69%); GARMENT WORKERS (55%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (50%) Football; Interscholastic Athletics; Television; Advertising and Marketing; Children and Youth; Coaches and Managers

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); ESPN INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: Espn (Cable TV Network); Fox Broadcasting Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: Joe Drape

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%) OHIO, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



362 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: In San Francisco, a Plague of Stickers Opens a New Front in the Graffiti War

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
One of the most wanted men in San Francisco -- if he is a man -- has no known name, no known mug shot and one very efficient sticker machine. 
 For several months, the police say, someone has been plastering the city's walls, public phones and newspaper boxes with postcard-size stickers reading ''BNE'' in big black letters. Sometimes the stickers also have Japanese script that translates to ''visit'' or ''come to.''
All of which makes for an amusing curiosity for pedestrians, but it has left city officials quite unhappy. In mid-July, Mayor Gavin Newsom offered a $2,500 reward for the capture of ''BNE,'' calling the stickers ''large, unsightly, confusing and utterly inappropriate.'' It is the first time the city has offered a cash reward in a graffiti case, a move that Mr. Newsom said was necessary to stop the ''repetitive malicious mischief.'' 
 The city attorney, Dennis J. Herrera, said San Francisco was suffering from a ''growing epidemic of graffiti tagging'' and other vandalism that dirties city streets. 
 ''The fact of the matter is that it exacts a toll from neighborhoods in a variety of ways,'' Mr. Herrera said. ''It's not just in monetary values, for cleanup, but it also degrades the quality of life for people that live there.'' 
 Just days after Mr. Newsom established the reward, Mr. Herrera announced a $20,000 civil judgment against Carlos Romero, 20, who had been ''tagging'' with abandon in the western part of the city using a variety of aliases, including ''Lafer,'' ''Coma,'' ''Queso'' and ''Cream.'' 
 As part of the judgment, Mr. Romero was ordered to stay away from spray paint and indelible markers and received a curfew of 11 p.m.. He was also instructed to record a public service announcement for radio.
 ''This is a message that if you're going out to tag, if we catch you, there's going to be a stiff price to pay,'' Mr. Herrera said. 
 But while Mr. Romero prepares to head to the studio, ''BNE'' remains at large, a fact that no doubt wears on Officer Christopher Putz, who oversees the San Francisco Police Department's two-person graffiti abatement unit. Officer Putz, who has been on the graffiti beat since 2001, takes his work seriously; he will not allow his face to be photographed and he gives his age merely as ''in my 30's,'' for fear of tipping his hand. ''It's a chess game,'' he said.
 The battle between graffiti supporters (who call it art) and detractors (who call it vandalism) dates back decades and spans the globe. The authorities in New York -- where artists like Keith Haring and Jean-Michel Basquiat worked the same streets as those painting walls with sobriquets like Taki, Revs/Cost and MQ -- have long struggled with graffiti, and continue to. A 2005 antigraffiti law is being held up in court while a federal judge considers a ban on the sale of paint and indelible markers to anyone under 21. 
 Officer Putz says San Francisco has also always had a place in the graffiti underworld, in part because landmarks like the Golden Gate Bridge tempt graffiti glory-seekers. ''Who wants to tag some Podunk town no one has ever heard of?'' he said.
 Experts say the city's enforcement efforts and economic success have dimmed graffiti's appeal in recent years. 
 ''In the mid-1990's, San Francisco was one of the best cities in the world,'' said Shepard Fairey, who became known in the 1990's for his ''Obey, Giant'' stickers, which depicted the face of the wrestler Andre the Giant. ''They weren't cleaning things very quickly, so things would stay up a long time. A lot of writers from New York and L.A. were doing things there. But then the dot-com thing came, and the rich people came, and it got really clean.''
 But ''BNE'' and the reward have drawn attention back to San Francisco, said Hugo Martinez, an art dealer in New York who represents a stable of veteran and up-and-coming graffiti practitioners. 
 ''Whenever the mayor starts to get involved in a swingfest, the masses are going to come out,'' Mr. Martinez said. ''And he couldn't do anything better for the graffiti writer's career than to do this.'' 
 Officer Putz will not say whether he knows who ''BNE'' is or what the initials stand for, but the mystery is a source of avid speculation on the Internet, where some have speculated that it means ''Be Nowhere Else,'' ''Breaking 'N' Entering'' or even ''Bureau of Narcotics Enforcement.'' 
 Variations on President Bush's name are also popular: ''Bush Not Elected,'' for example. One blogger said ''BNE'' was the code for the airport in Brisbane, Australia, and posited that the stickers, along with the Japanese script, were a campaign announcing flights from there to Japan. 
 Most, however, doubt that ''BNE'' is an advertisement, and instead think it might be the work of a graffiti artist who goes by the name of Benet and whose graffiti spelling out his name in large block letters have been seen in San Francisco. Officer Putz would not confirm whether Benet -- whose real name is not known -- was a suspect, but did say, ''There's only a handful of people who have any real skill.''
 In recent years, other California cities, including San Jose and Los Angeles, have increased efforts against graffiti, which some authorities say has ties to gang behavior and can be a gateway to more serious crime. ''There is absolutely no doubt there's a link between graffiti activity and more serious criminal activity,'' Mr. Herrera said.
 Mr. Fairey says politicians have long used the cleanup of graffiti as a way to score quality-of-life points with voters. ''It's cosmetic and superficial,'' he said. ''It's a perfect metaphor for politics in general.'' 
 But he agrees that enforcement efforts have gotten tougher. ''I used to put posters up in L.A., and they'd stay up for six months,'' said Mr. Fairey, 36, who runs a successful design firm in Los Angeles. ''Now they stay up for three days.''
 Mr. Martinez says he believes he knows who ''BNE'' is and thinks he is currently in Tokyo planning his next move. The ''BNE'' stickers have also been seen in New York and Tokyo. 
 ''Word is,'' Mr. Martinez wrote in an e-mail message, ''this guy may be the first writer to go 'all world' vs. 'all city.' '' 
 For his part, Officer Putz, who says he actually enjoys looking at the graffiti, says he just wants ''BNE'' and other graffitists to stay away from San Francisco. 
 ''We want the law-abiding tourists,'' he said. ''We don't want the traveling vandals.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''BNE'' stickers have been plastered on walls, pay phones and newspaper boxes. Bloggers have been trying to guess what the stickers mean.
 Officer Christopher Putz of the San Francisco Police Department's graffiti unit inspected a wall that had been painted clean two weeks earlier. Tracking the people who engage in graffiti is ''a chess game,'' he said. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VANDALISM (90%); GRAFFITI (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); CITIES (77%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (72%) Graffiti; Stickers; Rewards

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



363 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Home Is Where the Auto Parts Are

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
When Joseph Ardizzone makes the short drive to Flushing to cast his ballot at election time, he never has to wait his turn. ''When I vote,'' he says, ''it's the whole precinct voting.'' 
 Mr. Ardizzone, a wiry man who is still spry at 74, is the sole resident of Willets Point, an unsightly 75-acre enclave near Shea Stadium in northern Queens with a cluster of 225 auto parts and repair businesses, many of them operating out of tin or cinder-block sheds.
 It is not hard to see why Mr. Ardizzone has no neighbors -- unless you count Mario's Auto Radio, Q. C. Iron Works and the homeless people who sleep in the junkyards.
 The streets are pockmarked with holes big enough to store tires. Scarred chassis are stacked on top of one another or perched on mounds of garbage laced with spare parts. There are no sidewalks or sewers, and rainwater collects in deep puddles. In the summer, the stench from the Flushing Creek on the neighborhood's eastern edge is so powerful that ''it makes your eyes tear,'' Mr. Ardizzone says. 
 For decades, political leaders have sought to rid the city of the place that Robert Moses, the master builder, described as an ''eyesore and a disgrace to the borough of Queens.'' According to the latest plan, the Bloomberg administration hopes to use eminent domain to transform Willets Point into a retailing-and-entertainment district with a hotel and convention center.
 But what city officials see as a contaminated wasteland is the only home that Mr. Ardizzone has ever known. If the Bloomberg plan becomes a reality -- which would likely take years -- then Mr. Ardizzone's home would be razed. It also dismays him that businesses that provide jobs for 1,200 people -- according to the city's count -- would be displaced.
 The Ardizzones were Willets Point pioneers, arriving a few years before the first junkyard. Joseph was born in 1932 in a squat brick house that his father built. Now the sign outside reads ''1,000s Auto Parts.'' Across a cluttered alley is a mustard-yellow and brown Tudor-style house with padlocked doors and windows and a sign saying ''Express Deli and Grocery.'' Mr. Ardizzone lives in five rooms on the top floor with a cat and her six kittens. 
 Today, Mr. Ardizzone is the only registered voter from Willets Point, according to John Ravitz, the executive director of the New York City Board of Elections. During a door-to-door survey of the neighborhood last fall, Tom Angotti, a Hunter College professor of urban planning, and his students counted 225 businesses, but he said they found no residents other than Mr. Ardizzone.
 Not everyone in his family approves. ''My sister -- she lives in Florida -- she says it's disgusting,'' he said. ''She says, 'How can you live with junkyards and junk cars?' It don't bother me. From when I was a kid, I'm used to them.''
 But it does bother him that the city refuses to give Willets Point the services that other neighborhoods take for granted. ''If they gave us the infrastructure,'' he said, ''it would be an entirely different place.'' 
 A familiar figure in his old 1990 Mercury Marquis, Mr. Ardizzone has the run of most of the local businesses. When a fight breaks out among the mostly immigrant laborers, Mr. Ardizzone is happy to play mediator. When outsiders want to understand the neighborhood, which is flanked by the Grand Central Parkway and the Van Wyck Expressway and is only a few minutes from La Guardia Airport, he is the tour guide.
 As he sees it, Willets Point provides a chance for people from other countries to apply the mechanical skills they learned at home. ''Most of the people here are handicapped by not knowing the language, and not knowing how the system works,'' he said. ''But they have hands of gold.''
 Mr. Ardizzone wanders freely among the bags of flour and vats of corn syrup at House of Fodera, a national distributor of baking ingredients that opened at Willets Point 33 years ago. 
 ''He's like the resident mayor,'' said Anthony Fodera, an owner of the baking-goods distributor, one of several family-owned warehouse businesses in the neighborhood. ''When we got here, he welcomed us and came in and met with us.'' 
 Mr. Ardizzone, who owned a restaurant and a bar for two decades, now works as a security guard at a nursing home in Bayside. In his off hours, he is involved with the Willets Point Business Association's efforts to prevent the neighborhood from being condemned as an urban renewal site.
 The city Economic Development Corporation is now reviewing proposals submitted by developers in June, and a consultant is preparing an environmental impact statement, said Janel Patterson, a corporation spokeswoman.
 The Bloomberg administration's plan is only the latest in a series of proposals to threaten Willets Point. In the 1960's, Mr. Moses tried to use park funds to clean up the site, but was beaten back by the business owners with the help of a young lawyer named Mario M. Cuomo. 
 In 1985, however, Mr. Cuomo, then the governor of New York, supported a plan to build a domed football stadium in Willets Point. The proposal died when no National Football League team would commit to playing there.
 Other schemes for Willets Point -- put forward by the Mets, the Queens borough president and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani -- also went nowhere. 
 After the West Side stadium proposal was defeated, Mayor Bloomberg talked about putting press and broadcast centers in Willets Point as part of the city's last-minute plan to salvage its 2012 Olympic Games bid. But then London was chosen as the Olympics site. 
 To Mr. Ardizzone, taking property through eminent domain is simply wrong. ''If you don't have the right to own your own property, what rights do you have?'' he said.
 Willets Point seemed destined to thrive when Mr. Ardizzone's father, who was in construction, decided to settle there in the 1930's, along with family friends, who built the house next door. ''They were supposed to become millionaires,'' Mr. Ardizzone said.
 Mr. Ardizzone and his brother, Anthony, of Flushing, have near-bucolic memories of their childhood home. Pheasants, rabbits and frogs were a common sight, and the family grew tomatoes and raised chickens and goats in the swampy backyard. 
 There were junkyards nearby, but ''everybody kept everything clean and proper,'' Anthony Ardizzone recalled.
 Even then, Willets Point was an odd place in which to grow up. The brothers, who went to school in Flushing, played in an enormous ash pile at 38th Avenue and 126th Street, not far from their house. But it was made up of coal residue from a Con Edison plant that was used in roadbeds, not incinerated garbage like the one in nearby Flushing Meadows that was described in F. Scott Fitzgerald's ''Great Gatsby.''
 Mr. Ardizzone spent many years in the food business. He started with a coffee cart, then opened a coffee shop in the building where his family had lived. Later he added a bar, Joe's Pit Stop, that catered to the area's bricklayers, construction workers and other laborers.
 Jack Bono, an owner of Bono Sawdust Supply Company, a third-generation business in Willets Point, said the bar drew customers from outside Willets Point. ''Everybody used to go there after work, hang out, try to relax after work,'' he said. ''It was a nice place to be.''
 But Mr. Ardizzone, who never married, eventually tired of the demanding schedule and leased out the restaurant space. The coffee shop became an auto parts store. The bar became a deli. Both spaces are vacant now.
 Mr. Ardizzone said the city seemed determined to remake Willets Point, despite the failure of so many redevelopment proposals. ''It seems they want this property in the worst way,'' he said, ''and only through condemnation.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Ardizzone on Willets Point Boulevard in Queens. Mr. Ardizzone, Willets Point's sole resident, opposes a plan to raze the area to make way for an elaborate development. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 37)Map of Queens shows the location of Willets Point: Willets Point has 225 auto repair and parts shops and one resident. (pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); EMINENT DOMAIN (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CITY LIFE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CATS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (54%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (50%) Area Planning and Renewal; Eminent Domain; Automobiles; Repair Services

PERSON: Terry Pristin; Joseph Ardizzone; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



364 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Its Owner Is Mourned, but a Chinese Restaurant Goes On

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS and CASSI FELDMAN; Cara Buckley contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At Jade Mountain, a Chinese restaurant in the East Village where change comes slowly, if at all, a waiter served dishes of chop suey and egg foo yong yesterday to diners seated in cream-colored banquettes at Formica tables.
 The scene could have occurred almost any day since the restaurant opened in 1931, but that it happened yesterday -- the day after its 60-year- old owner, Reginald Chan, was killed in an accident while making a delivery on his bicycle is what made it even more special. That the restaurant was open attested to the resiliency of a place that has stayed frozen in time in a rapidly changing world. 
The place's regulars include college students hungry the morning after a late night, the unemployed in search of an affordable meal, and the not-so-gracefully aging East Village types, who like Jade Mountain, are weathered survivors.
 ''I know him over 50 years,'' said Al Livia, 74, who lives around the corner from the restaurant, at Second Avenue and 12th Street. 
 ''I eat here three times a week,'' Mr. Livia said. ''Just one meal around 3 p.m. or 4 p.m. Something different every time. I've tried everything on the menu. It was open when I came here and it's still the same. Around eight mailmen always come here for lunch. They'll be sorry to hear this.'' 
 Other customers seated in the drab dining room, its walls made up of brown-yellow tiles, said about the same thing. 
 ''I'm really sad to hear it. We've been coming here for years,'' said Ernie Rosenberg, 54, who was eating lunch with his wife, Marcia, 53. ''Their prices are reasonable. It's like Chinese food since you're 5 years old. They give you tea. You don't even have to ask for it.'' He gestured to his wife. ''This is the only place she'll eat.''
 On Friday night, Mr. Chan, 60, who performed all sorts of tasks at the restaurant, was filling in as a delivery man because the restaurant was temporarily without one. 
 He was, his wife, Suzanne Chan, 58, said yesterday, ''a waiter, a chef, he'd do anything.''
 At about 8 p.m., Mr. Chan hopped on the restaurant's delivery bike and pedaled away from the restaurant. About six blocks away, at Third Avenue near 17th Street, he was struck by a flatbed tow truck. Mr. Chan died at Bellevue Hospital Center of severe head injuries. The driver was not cited.
 During a 1997 interview with The New York Times, Mr. Chan said customers did not care that Jade Mountain was a little dingy. His customers, he said, were more interested in the nine different kinds of chow mein, which the restaurant advertised with its own neon sign that said, simply -- ''Chow Mein.'' 
 ''We have a lot of old customers used to the old Cantonese style,'' Mr. Chan said at the time. ''They grew up with it. Now they bring their grandchildren in, and they're growing up with it.'' 
 Asked yesterday why she had decided to go to work yesterday, Suzanne Chan was matter-of-fact about the couple's 15-hour days and the long ride back and forth from Fort Lee, N.J.
 ''He always wanted to keep the place open,'' she said. ''He would like it to be open. He likes people. Everyone's like family here. Everybody knows each other.'' 
 Mr. Chan, known by all as ''Reggie,'' met Suzanne in Trinidad, where he had gone after growing up in southern China. They married in 1969 and fled Trinidad during a period of unrest. They ended up in Chinatown, and Mr. Chan took a job at his family's restaurant -- Jade Mountain -- in about 1970, as a waiter. Some time later, dates are fuzzy at Jade Mountain, he became the owner.
 Relatives came and went yesterday at the restaurant, and word slowly made its way to the regulars, who shared hugs and tears with the family. Ms. Chan sat in back and would disappear into the kitchen for long stretches. Around her were two sons, a daughter, two grandchildren, cousins and in-laws.
 A cousin, Agnes Chen Hui, called Reggie, ''lovely and generous, almost to a fault.''
 Said Ms. Hui, ''It's like his second home.'' 
 Ms. Chan, who knew better, said, ''It's like his first home.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The owner of Jade Mountain restaurant in the East Village, Reginald Chan, 60, was fatally struck by a truck as he made a delivery on a bicycle Friday. His wife, Suzanne Chan, was embraced by a customer yesterday. (Photographs by Cary Conover for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (76%); CYCLING (70%); INTERVIEWS (66%); HEAD INJURIES (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (54%) Roads and Traffic; Bicycles and Bicycling; Restaurants; Jade Mountain (NYC Restaurant); Accidents and Safety

PERSON: Timothy Williams; Cassi Feldman; Reginald Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



365 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2314 words

HEADLINE: The Rise of Baidu (That's Chinese for Google)

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
IN the summer of 1998 at a picnic in Silicon Valley, Eric Xu, a 34-year-old biochemist, introduced his shy, reserved friend Robin Li to John Wu, then the head of Yahoo's search engine team.
 Mr. Li, 30 at the time, was a frustrated staff engineer at Infoseek, an Internet search engine partly owned by Disney, a company whose fading commitment to Infoseek did not mesh with Mr. Li's ongoing passion for search. Like Disney, Mr. Wu and Yahoo were also losing interest in the business prospects of search, and Yahoo -- in a colossal corporate blunder -- eventually outsourced all of its search functions to a little startup named Google.
Mr. Xu, who had called together some friends for a documentary he was making on Silicon Valley, thought the two search guys would hit it off. Mr. Wu says he exchanged greetings with Robin Li, but what most impressed him was that despite all of the pessimism surrounding search, Mr. Li remained undaunted.
 ''The people at Yahoo didn't think search was all that important, and so neither did I,'' says Mr. Wu, who is now the chief technology officer at the Chinese Internet company Alibaba.com. ''But Robin, he seemed very determined to stick with it. And you have to admire what he accomplished.'' 
 Indeed. A year after the picnic, in 1999, Mr. Li founded his own search company in China, naming it Baidu (pronounced ''by-DOO''). Today, Baidu has a market value of $3 billion and operates the fourth-most trafficked Web site in the world. And Baidu is doing what no other Internet company has been able to do: clobbering Google and Yahoo in its home market. 
 While Baidu continues to gain market share in China -- and does so with a Web site that the Chinese government heavily censors and that gives priority to advertising rather than relevant search results -- some analysts question whether Baidu can withstand competition from Google and Yahoo, which possess superior technology and global work forces.
 But Baidu's evolution, and Mr. Li's journey as an entrepreneur, offer textbook examples of the payoffs and perils of doing business in China and suggest that Baidu may prove to be far more resilient than some analysts believe. China has a population of 1.3 billion, about 130 million of whom are Internet users, an online market second in size only to the American market. Because China is the world's fastest-growing major economy, analysts consider it the next great Internet battleground, with Baidu uniquely positioned to prosper from that competition.
 In exchange for letting censors oversee its Web site, Baidu has sealed its dominance with support from the Chinese government, which regularly blocks Google here and imposes strict rules and censorship on other foreign Internet companies.
 In addition, analysts say, entrepreneurs in China have a knack for pummeling American Internet giants. ''The globally dominant U.S. Internet companies have failed to take the No. 1 market share position in any category,'' says Jason D. Brueschke, a Citigroup analyst, of the Chinese market. ''And they came with more money and major brand names. And so there's something fundamentally different about this market.''
 So fundamentally different, Mr. Brueschke believes, that Baidu will retain its hammerlock on the Chinese search industry. ''The real battle in the competitive landscape is not about who's No. 1, it's about who's going to be No. 2,'' he says.
 Google, of course, will have none of this, stressing the independence of its search results and the international reach it offers users. ''People want information and they want global information,'' says Kaifu Lee, the president of Google in China. ''We can't be bought.''
 But Mr. Li says Baidu's model is working supremely well and that the company has built a loyal base of users who value its search capabilities. ''At the end of the day, if a user finds relevant information, they'll come back,'' he says.
 ON its corporate Web site, Baidu says that it takes its name from a Song Dynasty poem written several centuries ago that ''compares the search for a retreating beauty amid chaotic glamour with the search for one's dream while confronted by life's many obstacles.''
 Mr. Li, born Li Yanhong in 1968 in what was then an impoverished city 200 miles southwest of Beijing, is familiar with life's obstacles. The fourth of five children, he grew up during China's brutal Cultural Revolution. Despite the oppression that surrounded him, he said he was always able to focus on stamp collecting, performing traditional opera and other interests -- including, eventually, computers. He was bright enough to get into the country's most prestigious school, Beijing University, where he majored in library science and dabbled in computer science.
 The government infamously cracked down on pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square in 1989 when Mr. Li was a sophomore, causing his college campus to be shut down. Mr. Li is mum on the events that followed, saying only that he was apolitical. But he does say that a year later he started thinking of studying abroad and that by the time he graduated in 1991 he was ready to leave his homeland.
 ''China was a depressing place,'' he says. ''I thought there was no hope.''
 He applied to the top three graduate programs in computer science in America, but did not get into any of them (perhaps, he says, because China was considered an also-ran in technology). ''I blindly sent out 20 applications,'' he says. ''SUNY Buffalo was the only program willing to give me a fellowship.''
 He enrolled at Buffalo planning to earn a Ph.D. in computer science but grew disillusioned with academia. He completed his master's degree in 1994 and then joined a New Jersey division of Dow Jones & Company, where he helped develop a software program for The Wall Street Journal's online edition. During that time, he also became enamored of the technology boom taking shape in Silicon Valley. He spent much of his time trying to solve one of the Internet industry's earliest problems: sorting information.
 A breakthrough came in 1996, he says, when he developed a search mechanism he called ''link analysis,'' which involved ranking the popularity of a Web site based on how many other Web sites had linked to it.
 ''The moment I created this thing I was very excited,'' he says. ''I told my boss and pushed him. But he wasn't very excited.'' Soon after, he attended a computer conference in Silicon Valley and set up his own booth to demonstrate his search findings.
 William I. Chang, then the chief technology officer at Infoseek, met Mr. Li at the conference and recruited him to oversee search engine development.
 ''Robin is possibly the single most brilliant and focused person I know,'' Mr. Chang says. ''And his inventions, now widely adopted, are still the gold standards in Web search relevance.''
 After Disney acquired the small fraction of Infoseek stock it did not already own in 1999, it shifted the company's focus away from search and toward content, leading Mr. Li to form his own Internet company with Eric Xu, who had a Ph.D. in biochemistry and good contacts in Silicon Valley. 
 The partners raised $1.2 million from two Silicon Valley venture capital firms, Integrity Partners and Peninsula Capital, and with their seed money in hand flew to China and founded Baidu in a hotel room overlooking Beijing University's campus. Nine months later, in September 2000, two other venture capital firms, Draper Fisher Jurvetson and IDG Technology Venture, pumped another $10 million into the startup.
 So it was that on the eve of the Internet bubble bursting in the United States, Baidu took off in China.
 ''When I came back I was prepared for a rough life,'' Mr. Li says. ''It turns out it wasn't so bad.''
 Baidu started out offering search services to other Chinese portals before developing its own stand-alone search engine. Some members of Baidu's board of directors opposed the shift, saying it would turn customers into competitors. But Mr. Li said he sensed a shift in the market after watching the success of Overture, a company in Pasadena, Calif., that sold advertising space correlated with search results (which meant, for example, that ads for dental clinics might pop up next to search results for cavities).
 ''We were skeptical about search,'' says Scott Walchek, a partner at Integrity Partners and a member of Baidu's board. ''But we weren't as smart as Robin. Robin said he had a unique opportunity to build a brand around search. And he was right.''
 In September 2001, Baidu began its own site -- Baidu.com -- which looked almost exactly like Google's no-frills home page. And even before Google did it, Baidu allowed advertisers to bid for ad space and then pay Baidu every time a customer clicked on an ad. Small and medium-size companies loved it, the site became deluged with traffic and Baidu turned a profit in 2004. By then, Mr. Li was pushing for an initial public offering in the United States, insisting it would be a huge branding event for a company that had come to be called ''China's Google.''
 BAIDU went public on Aug. 5, 2005, at $27 a share. When trading ended that day, shares of Baidu closed at $122, up 354 percent, the biggest opening on Nasdaq since the dot-com peak in 2000. Suddenly, Baidu was a $4 billion company and Mr. Li held stock worth more than $900 million. But not everyone cheered. Many analysts said that by almost every measure Baidu's stock was ridiculously over-valued. It eventually tumbled to as low as $44 before rebounding. On Friday, its shares closed up $3.03 in regular trading, to $87.75, giving the company a market capitalization of about $2.94 billion.
 At the time of the I.P.O., some critics attacked Baidu's zealousness for ad revenues. They noted, for example, that a Baidu search for the word ''cancer'' turned up ads for hospitals that paid for top spots in results rather than returning information on cancer itself. In comparison, Google and Yahoo more clearly separate ads from relevant search results by placing them on the right side of the page.
 The company's revenue jumped 190 percent in the first half of this year, to $40.9 million; profit soared 550 percent, to $11.7 million. Baidu's Web site is drawing millions of young people eager to download music files, create blogs or search for pictures of China's ''10 Most Beautiful Women.'' While Baidu is growing fast, its revenue is still anemic compared with Google's, which is expected to top $7 billion this year.
 Analysts say Baidu is playing to a different audience than Western Internet companies because the Chinese are far more interested in entertainment than news, books or car rental rates. ''The fact is 70 percent of China's Internet users are under the age of 30,'' says Richard Ji, an analyst with Morgan Stanley. ''Most of them are single, only children. They're looking for entertainment.'' 
 That may explain why China's dominant Internet companies are all entertainment focused, like Tencent (which hosts online communities and instant messaging) and Netease and Shanda (which are online gaming sites).
 Yet no Internet company in China is growing as fast as Baidu, which had more than 50 percent of the pay-per-click market in the first half of year, up from a 37 percent share in the same period a year ago, according to Analysys, a research firm in Beijing. Google and Yahoo both lost ground, with each company holding 16 percent pay-per-click shares for the first six months of 2006.
 Still, Baidu faces significant challenges. The company's stock is in the stratosphere, putting pressure on management to deliver knockout growth every quarter. Google's shares closed up $5.90 Friday in regular trading, to $409.88, meaning investors pay a hefty $60 for every $1 of profit in the stock, far more than other Internet companies. But Baidu investors pay a whopping $190 for every $1 of profit.
 Baidu also faces legal challenges, including lawsuits claiming it violates copyright laws on music files. Baidu has been sued over the issue, but continues to provide links to sites that offer music files. The company says it does not believe it should be held responsible for simply offering linking to other sites. In a country rampant with claims of click fraud, a Beijing hospital recently claimed that Baidu orchestrated a scheme in which a Baidu affiliate kept clicking on the hospital's ads to fatten the fees it had to pay Baidu. A Baidu spokeswoman says the company has not reviewed the case, but actively polices click fraud. 
 LOOMING on the horizon are Google and Yahoo. Google says it plans to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to compete in China, and Yahoo has merged its operations here with Chinese Internet behemoth Alibaba.com.
 ''Google is fierce,'' Morgan Stanley's Mr. Ji says. ''And Alibaba has the best sales force. Baidu could get hurt on the technical side.''
 But the Chinese market is littered with the wreckage of American Internet companies that have failed to dominate here. In 2003, eBay bought the largest Chinese auction company -- and then lost market share. In 2004, Amazon bought the largest Chinese online merchandiser -- and then lost market share. 
 Now, the real fight begins. Google, which invested $5 million in Baidu just before its public offering last year, sold that stake for a hefty $60 million in June. And now, Google is building up a huge research team in Beijing, not far from Baidu's headquarters. But analysts say it won't be easy for Google.
 ''The American Internet giants are dominant in the U.S. and dominant in Europe,'' Mr. Brueschke at Citigroup says. ''And then they come to China and fail. And so what I want to know is: What is Google going to do differently?''
 For his part, Robin Li seems undaunted.
 ''Our traffic keeps increasing,'' he says confidently. ''We're now the No. 1 Web site in China.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Robin Li's passion for search led him to create Baidu, based in Beijing. (Photo by Miranda Mimi Kuo for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Robin Li, center, signing the lectern during the close of Nasdaq trading on Aug. 5, 2005, Baidu's first day as a listed stock on the market. (Photo by Rob Tannenbaum/Nasdaq, via Associated Press)(pg. 7)Chart: ''Baidu Takes Off''Baidu.com is now the most popular Internet search engine in China.Graphs track Baidu stock price, total revenue and net income since 2005.SHARE OF SEARCH ENGINE MARKET IN CHINAAS PRIMARY SEARCH ENGINE2004Baidu: 45%Other: 16Google: 30Yahoo: 92005Baidu: 57%Other: 6Google: 33Yahoo: 5ADVERTISING REVENUE2Q 2005Baidu: 37%Other: 19Google: 23Yahoo: 212Q 2006Baidu: 50%Other: 18Google: 16Yahoo: 16(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets, iResearch, Analysys International)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); SEARCH ENGINES (89%); CENSORSHIP (89%); LABOR FORCE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); MARKET SHARE (75%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%) Computers and the Internet; Company and Organization Profiles

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); YAHOO! INC (95%); BAIDU INC (92%); ALIBABA.COM LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Baidu.com Inc; Google; Yahoo Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); K3SD (SGX) (92%); BIDU (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (92%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (55%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: Robin Li; David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



366 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Nina Fletcher, Christopher McIntyre

 BODY:
Nina Vanderbeck Fletcher, a daughter of Suzanne Vanderbeck Fletcher and Frederick Charles Fletcher II of Devon, Pa., was married yesterday to Christopher Thomas McIntyre, a son of Eileen Rose McIntyre and Thomas William McIntyre of Mantoloking, N.J. The Rev. Alan Neale, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony at the Church of the Holy Trinity in Philadelphia, with the Rev. Elias R. Lorenzo, a Roman Catholic priest, taking part. 
 The couple met at Yale, from which they graduated, she magna cum laude.
Mrs. McIntyre, 26, is to become an associate next month at the New York law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell, where she will specialize in trusts and estates. She received her law degree from a joint program of Columbia and the London School of Economics, through which she is completing a Master of Law degree.
 Her father is a partner in Swartz Campbell, a Philadelphia law firm, and a trustee of the Jenkins Arboretum in Devon. His mother a litigation paralegal at Swartz Campbell.
 Mr. McIntyre, 27, is a consultant at the Boston Consulting Group in New York. He received an M.B.A. from Columbia. 
 His mother is a fund-raiser and organizer with the New Jersey Chapter of Operation Smile, an organization that raises money to help children with facial deformities. His father is the chief executive of Dr. Leonard's Healthcare Corporation in Edison, N.J., which sells exercise equipment, diet supplements, apparel and personal care products.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); RELIGION (77%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (75%); PARALEGALS (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); LITIGATION (70%); ESTATE PLANNING (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); HEALTH CARE (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SULLIVAN & CROMWELL LLP (84%); BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (55%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



367 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: An Uncertain Threat in Venezuela

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN

 BODY:
LATIN AMERICA, as the late Venezuelan author Carlos Rangel once wrote, has always had a ''love-hate relationship'' with the United States. The love is expressed in its purest form: imitation. The hate, more akin to resentment, boils down to a frustrated desire to get the Yanquis' attention.
 Fidel Castro pulled it off in the 1960's, torturing the Kennedy brothers with his cigar and his Marxism, and now, in Venezuela, Hugo Chavez is giving us a rerun. At least, this is the refrain of Nikolas Kozloff, a British-educated American who has written ''Hugo Chavez: Oil, Politics, and the Emerging Challenge to the United States.'' 
Mr. Kozloff apparently believes that Americans have much to fear from Venezuela. His admiring study of Mr. Chavez, an up-by-the-bootstraps lieutenant colonel who tried and failed to take power in a coup and subsequently succeeded at the ballot box, is peppered with phrases like ''in an alarming warning sign for George Bush'' and ''in an ominous development for American policymakers.'' 
 Why does Mr. Kozloff think, as stated on the book jacket, that Venezuela represents a ''potentially dangerous enemy to the United States''? Caracas is our fourth-biggest oil exporter, so maybe some day, the implication is, it could cut us off. 
 And Mr. Chavez, with his friend you-know-who in Cuba, has taken to taunting America and lobbying other Latin American countries against the brand of free-trade liberalism that Washington has advocated. Mr. Chavez has even been trying to form an energy alliance with Argentina and Brazil, for the ostensible purpose of using oil as a ''weapon'' against the gringos, and he has refused to permit United States overflights in the war against cocaine. 
 Is this really worth getting all steamed up about? I lived in Venezuela during the 70's, also a period of high oil prices and, not coincidentally, a time when the government was strutting its stuff as a regional (and vaguely anticapitalist) power. Getting America to worry, or at least to care, was a high priority, as I realized when a friendly Venezuelan reporter eagerly asked me which of two left-wing political parties Americans ''feared the most.'' 
 One of these parties was known by the acronym MIR and the other as MAS. The truth was that no Americans I knew had heard of either. My own relatives could barely distinguish Venezuela from Colombia or Peru. I didn't say that, of course. The local journalists were unfailingly kind to me, and I had no wish to hurt their feelings. I allowed, ''I guess we fear each of them about the same.'' Anyway, in a few years, the price of oil collapsed, and the posturing from Caracas went with it. 
 Mr. Kozloff will perhaps appreciate the personal anecdote because his book is replete with same. He lets us in on his travels, Jack Kerouac-style, so we are with him when he is hiking in the Andes, observing rural poverty, or acquainting himself with indigenous tribes. Then the author is back in England, where he joins an ''anticapitalist May Day protest,'' at which one of his confreres defaces a statue of Winston Churchill. Then he is watching Mr. Chavez on TV, then protesting against globalism, then, in 2000, doing research for his dissertation in Caracas. He watches Al Gore and George Bush on the tube, cannot see much difference between them and casts his lot with Ralph Nader. 
 As for Mr. Chavez, the author portrays him, convincingly, as a soldier indignant about the moral flabbiness and corrupt ways of the career politicians he replaced. We learn that Mr. Chavez's antipathy toward American culture stems, in some measure, from his partly Indian blood lines. So it is that Mr. Chavez, a phrase maker to be sure, has rechristened Columbus Day ''Indigenous Resistance Day.'' Resistance to what? He is no fan of liberal economics, free trade, cross-border investment, the prescriptions of the International Monetary Fund, nor, indeed, of capitalism itself. 
 This is all well and good with Mr. Kozloff. His analysis is essentially Marxist, i.e., he sees trade as a one-way street that helps the rich and hurts the poor. His book is filled with the sort of new-lefty rhetoric I had thought went out in the 70's. He applauds the Venezuelan president's idea for an alternative trade association -- meaning one not aligned with the United States -- that, in Mr. Chavez's tedious phraseology, would be a ''socially oriented trade bloc rather than one strictly based on the logic of deregulated profit maximization.'' 
 But neither Mr. Kozloff nor President Chavez can escape the fact that the 70's are over. Socialism hasn't worked; it's kaput. Free-market medicine (which Mr. Kozloff refers to by the more sinister-sounding ''neo-liberalism'') hasn't always worked, but it's worked better than anything else. 
 And in fact, Mr. Kozloff's fantasy of an America threatened by left-wing Latins is a vestige of a world that was dominated by a Moscow-Washington rivalry -- a world that no longer exists. The only way Venezuela could truly stop supplying the United States with oil (which trades in a global market) would be to stop selling it to everyone, which isn't in the cards.
 THE right question is not what America has to fear from Mr. Chavez, but what Venezuelans have to fear from Mr. Chavez. The answer would seem to be plenty. He has militarized the government, emasculated the country's courts, intimidated the media, eroded confidence in the economy and hollowed out Venezuela's once-democratic institutions. 
 Mr. Chavez's rhetoric has provided a pleasing distraction to the country's poor, but it has not eradicated poverty. The real riddle of Venezuela today, as it was a generation ago, is why, despite its bountiful oil reserves, its fertile plains and its democratic traditions, it has been persistently unable to make an economic leap similar to that of Chile or of the various success stories in Asia. And writers who serve as cheerleaders for the failed idea of blaming America are anything but Venezuela's friends.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Off the Shelf column last Sunday, a review of ''Hugo Chavez,'' Nikolas Kozloff's book about the Venezuelan president, misstated its subtitle. It is ''Oil, Politics and the Challenge to the U.S.,'' not ''Oil, Politics and the Emerging Challenge to the United States.''

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); LOBBYING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); POLITICS (74%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (59%); COCAINE (50%) United States International Relations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Books and Literature

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (90%); FIDEL CASTRO (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Roger Lowenstein; Nikolas Kozloff

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); CUBA (79%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



368 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA FRENZY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: A Video Business Model Ready to Move Beyond Beta

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

 BODY:
VIDEO mania is in full swing. Amazon is finally doing movie downloads. Apple is touting a new wireless gizmo to beam movies from laptops to TV screens. NBC is introducing a video syndication service that might pit it against Google and Yahoo, and it's joining the other big networks in putting its shows online for free with advertising. MTV is working with Google to populate its video content all over the Web. 
 It is wholly unclear which, if any, of these or any of the dozens of other recent efforts that have been announced will break away from the pack, which is why many of them are couched as ''tests'' and ''experiments.'' (Whoever thought up this idea of Web sites forever being in ''beta'' deserves a prize as the spinmeister of their generation.) 
Still, a few things are clear from the recent news flow. First of all: yes, the world has gone batty over video. Thirty-second clips, three-minute spoofs, half-hour sitcoms, TV dramas that haven't been shown in decades, rap videos, Hollywood blockbusters and feeds from TV news outlets big and small are flooding online. The term video itself is already starting to sound old -- the equivalent of songs before the advent of MP3's and downloads.
 The good news -- and my second point -- is that there's gold in them there hills. Video delivered over the Internet is clearly shaping up to be an actual business that advertisers are interested in. The broadcasting (netcasting?) of television programs and clips on the Web moves the debate away from Internet-versus-TV because if TV executives put their best material online and get paid for it, the proposition becomes Internet-cum-TV. 
 The research firm eMarketer estimates that video-related advertising will top $2.3 billion within four years. And let's not forget that Google is on track to exceed $7 billion in revenue this year -- and that is predominantly from old-fashioned, Yellow Pages-style text ads. Heck, they don't even have pictures, let alone moving images. 
 Much attention has been focused on the economics of selling digital versions of Hollywood movies (like in Amazon's new Unbox service) as an alternative to DVD sales and rentals and to stem piracy. But what has yet to be exploited -- what Google, Yahoo and many other aggregators are vying for -- are pieces of the $60 billion or so that will be spent on television advertising in the United States this year. 
 NBC's new syndication business, dubbed NBBC, for National Broadband Company, promises to match up content creators with Web sites that might be interested in showing the video. All three parties will get to take a cut of the embedded advertising revenue. There is much to quibble with about the way NBBC came out of the gate; its executives dissed most blogs as unworthy of their content and sneered at the homemade content that is proliferating on YouTube.
 On the other hand, any video service using NBBC is nonexclusive, so there is really no reason not to use it (which explains why little corners of NBC competitors like Fox and CBS are participating in the NBBC rollout, through their IGN.com and CSTV businesses, respectively). 
 Some aspects of the NBBC concept can lead to head-scratching. If I have a great piece of video on my Web site, for instance, is it more valuable to syndicate it through NBBC or to just have it spread virally across the Web? A simple link will take people to the video and any ad accompanying it for free. But that's why it's an experiment. 
 The clever thing about NBBC, though, is that it's an entirely new business -- to the extent it will distribute other companies' programs -- that is designed to bring in new money. Even if free advertiser-supported video on the Web takes off, it's far from clear whether those ad dollars will be greater than the dollars NBC may lose from viewers who will no longer watch its show on regular TV, or download or DVD and so on. 
 Which brings us to Apple's potential convergence-buster, dubbed iTV (the name is -- you guessed it -- beta). Betting against Steven P. Jobs has not been a sound proposition in recent years, but there are plenty of reasons to be skeptical about whether iTV, which doesn't actually exist yet, will have the technological wherewithal or enough compelling content to matter. But it does draw people closer to a world where inexpensive liquid crystal displays will moot the long-running debate about convergence because people will just plug in their cable or Internet or Wi-Fi and do what they please. 
 ''The real win here is in high-value, high-quality, high-definition content on your TV set,'' said Josh Bernoff, a vice president at Forrester Research. ''To do that is going to require more than what Amazon and frankly more than what Apple is doing. We're still waiting for that device.''
 Or maybe it's here and we just can't afford it. TiVo last week brought to market its Series 3 digital recording box, which appears to have the ability to do everything from record in high-definition to take video files through a broadband Internet connection either directly or wirelessly. At $799, however, it's the most expensive TiVo toy yet.
 And if you want to really -- really -- get your hands on as much video as one could possibly enjoy, may I recommend the new DirecTV Titanium service? Introduced recently as the ultimate luxury for anyone who calls their home a ''crib'' with a straight face, it's basically everything the satellite provider has to give for a flat fee of $7,500 a year. 
 That means every regular, pay and high-definition channel, every sports package, pay-per-view movies (at no cost), and a whole bunch of tuners and digital video recorders to do with as you please. There is also 24-hour a day ''concierge'' service for technical help and anything else. 
 Best of all, none of it is in beta.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven P. Jobs, Apple's chief executive, announced the company's long-awaited online movie service last week and showed off a new device that will allow users to watch Web videos on TV. (Photo by Paul Sakuma/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (90%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); FILM (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (79%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (79%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (79%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); BROADBAND (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (76%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (66%); RAP MUSIC (66%); CD & DVD DRIVES (60%) Recordings and Downloads (Video); Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet; Digital Video Recorders; Television; Tests and Testing

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (86%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Nbc Inc; Directv Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (73%) Richard Siklos

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



369 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Lower Oil Prices Push Key Stock Indexes Higher

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
Oil prices fell and stock traders celebrated, propelling the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to its highest weekly close since May. 
 The price of a barrel of crude oil fell in New York to $63.33, down from $66.25 the previous week. On top of that, core consumer prices rose in August by only 0.2 percent. Thomas M. Hoenig, the president of the Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank, called that inflation report ''good news,'' bolstering hopes on Wall Street that short-term interest rates won't be rising further.
Shares of Home Depot, the home-improvement retailer, rose 8.6 percent, the best weekly performance among the Dow industrials. Home Depot shares soared on reports that Edward S. Lampert, the hedge fund manager and chairman of Sears Holdings, planned to invest in the company. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 168.66 points, or 1.5 percent, to close at 1,1560.77. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 20.95 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 1,319.87. The Nasdaq composite index rose 69.80 points, or 3.2 percent, to close at 2,235.59. The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond rose to 4.79 percent from 4.77 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.DellNNM: DELLThe nation's biggest computer maker suspended a stock buyback and delayed filing its fiscal second-quarter report because of questions raised by regulators in an investigation into its accounting.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $21.35WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.39%EST. '06 P/E: 19.77Bristol-Myers SquibbNYSE: BMYThe drug maker ousted its chief executive, Peter R. Dolan, for mishandling a patent dispute involving the blockbuster drug Plavix. Mr. Dolan was replaced by an interim chief, James M. Cornelius, a company director.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.92WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.51%EST. '06 P/E: 24.82Goldman SachsNYSE: GSThe No. 3 United States securities firm posted lower third-quarter profit but topped Wall Street estimates. Earnings totaled $1.59 billion as stronger investment banking fees helped to offset weaker trading revenue.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $162.71WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.62%EST. '06 P/E: 9.32Apple ComputerNNM: AAPLThe computer technology company announced a series of new products, including an iPod Nano with a longer battery life, a device to beam video from computers to television sets and an online movie service.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $74.10WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.18%EST. '06 P/E: 34.40MerckNYSE: MRKVioxx, the painkiller that Merck stopped selling in 2004, may have posed heart risks that Celebrex and other painkillers do not, according to two papers published by The Journal of the American Medical Association.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $41.10WEEK'S CHANGE: +0.10%EST. '06 P/E: 16.59Best BuyNYSE: BBYShares of the consumer electronics retailer surged after it reported a 22 percent jump in second-quarter profit, topping Wall Street estimates. The earnings gain came amid strong sales of high-definition TV's.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $53.83WEEK'S CHANGE: +16.24%EST. '06 P/E: 19.18Hewlett-PackardNYSE: HPQThe California attorney general said company officials involved in a secret inquiry into leaks to the media could face criminal charges. H.P. said its chairwoman, Patricia C. Dunn, would step down in January.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $36.18WEEK'S CHANGE: +0.03%EST. '06 P/E: 16.63Sovereign BancorpNYSE: SOVThe chief executive, Jay S. Sidhu, said he expected the bank to be sold, either to Banco Santander Central Hispano of Spain or to another buyer. Santander already owns nearly 20 percent of Sovereign.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $21.50WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.91%EST. '06 P/E: 13.80(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); HOME CENTERS (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); RETAILERS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Credit; Government Bonds; Interest Rates

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (72%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (56%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (56%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%)

PERSON: EDDIE LAMPERT (79%); JAMES M CORNELIUS (56%) Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



370 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: From a Literary Lion In Caracas, Advice On Must-Reads

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT HUGO CHAVEZ, it is well known, talks a lot. Whether at home or on the road, in Damascus or Minsk, his speeches can last hours.
 Often, as he talks on, Mr. Chavez drops the names of books he is reading or has grown to love, giving insight into the various intellectual and literary influences on his thinking and what he calls his Bolivarian Revolution, an amalgam of socialist-inspired and anti-American policies.
Favorite authors include Victor Hugo, with ''Les Miserables'' at the top of his must-read list, with its description of passion amid revolutionary barricades. At the swearing-in of ministers for nutrition and the people's economy, Mr. Chavez recited a passage from the introduction about the need to stamp out ignorance and poverty. 
 ''Don Quixote'' by Cervantes also features prominently in his speeches, with Mr. Chavez identifying with the eccentric knight errant fighting injustice. To celebrate the 400th anniversary of the book's publication, the government last year paid for a million copies to be distributed free. Venezuela also paid for 70,000 copies in English for Caribbean neighbors and 5,000 in French for Haiti.
 Mr. Chavez's supporters, who remain the majority in this country, love such displays, pointing to strides made in reducing illiteracy in recent years. His critics suggest that it is yet another way for the government to boost public spending. 
 If there is a whiff of 1970's-style third-world intellectual pretension in the populism of his campaign and his championing of certain books, Mr. Chavez does not seem to mind. Indeed, it reflects what seems a wider strategy on his part: he seems determined to articulate and spread a national ideology, in the way of a Castro or Peron. 
 The government is making more books available to the population through programs like the Kuai Mare Foundation, which operates a chain of more than 50 bookstores stocked largely with nationalist or left-leaning books sold at bargain prices.
 Beyond the classics of European literature, Mr. Chavez recommends works by Latin American political theorists and historians and even the occasional North American. Mr. Chavez says he read John Kenneth Galbraith as a boy growing up humbly in Barinas, where his parents taught school. 
 Galbraith's ''Economics of Innocent Fraud,'' a witty critique of the American economy, stands out for Mr. Chavez. Galbraith, who died this year at the age of 97, ''is not a socialist but still he is a critic of capitalism,'' Mr. Chavez recently said on his Sunday television program, ''Hello, President.'' He has described himself as ''Galbraithiano.''
 Some of Mr. Chavez's reading preferences may be predictable, given his dislike of just about anything to do with President Bush. One of his anti-Bush staples is ''Dude, Where's My Country?,'' a book by the filmmaker Michael Moore.
 Other references are a bit more obscure, like ''The Turning Point,'' by Fritjof Capra, an Austrian-born physicist. Mr. Chavez plucked a theme in the book, on moving away from centuries of exploitation, to discuss his opposition to American efforts to form a free trade zone across the Americas. Mr. Chavez cites books recommended to him by Mr. Castro, another voracious reader, including ''The Hydrogen Economy,'' by Jeremy Rifkin, a look at moving the world beyond its dependence on oil. ''The book is based on something which is no longer a hypothesis -- it is a thesis,'' he said on a visit to Tehran in July. ''Oil will run out one day.''
 Here in Venezuela, which has the largest oil reserves outside the Middle East, people have become accustomed to Mr. Chavez's literary recommendations. What really seems to interest many Venezuelans are books about Mr. Chavez himself.
 Bookstores in Caracas carry more than a dozen titles about him, from unauthorized biographies to exposes of Bush administration efforts to oppose his government. Cristina Marcano, the co-author of a best-selling biography, ''Hugo Chavez Without His Uniform,'' said that in his army days Mr. Chavez cited the influence of ''The Green Book'' by Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, first published in the mid-1970's. ''Chavez read Qaddafi with great admiration,'' Ms. Marcano said in an interview. One of Mr. Qaddafi's ideas was to ban commercial retail activity, an event inducing economic chaos that the Venezuelan leader has wisely ignored. 
 How does Mr. Chavez, burdened by other responsibilities, manage to read so much? One possibility is offered by Herma Marksman, the subject of ''The Other Chavez,'' one of 16 books on Mr. Chavez by Alberto Garrido, a noted political analyst here. 
 Ms. Marksman, a history professor who was Mr. Chavez's mistress from 1984 to 1993, said he would often have her read aloud to him from books while he drove a car. ''He would hang on every word, especially if it was fiction by Garcia Marquez,'' she said in an interview. 
 However eclectic Mr. Chavez's taste in books might appear, there is one constant on his bookshelf. Mr. Chavez often refers to maxims by military or guerrilla leaders, admiring their rise to power through the barrel of a gun.
 They include Simon Bolivar, the father of Venezuelan independence, Napoleon, Che Guevara and Mao Zedong. In an appearance this month at the national military academy, Mr. Chavez read from Mao's writings.
 ''No one does this anymore in China,'' the newspaper El Nacional said in an editorial, ''though he hasn't figured this out in his five trips to the country of Deng Xiaoping.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bookworms -- Fidel Castro and Hugo Chavez at a book fair in Havana in February. (Photo by Claudia Daut/Reuters)Chart/Photos: ''Chavez Reading List''Victor HugoLes MiserablesMiguel de CervantesDon QuixoteMichael MooreDude, Where's My Country?Fritjof CapraThe Turning PointJohn Kenneth GalbraithThe Economics of Innocent FraudJeremy RifkinThe Hydrogen EconomyCol. Muammar el-QaddafiThe Green Book

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (92%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (77%); WRITERS (77%); BOOKSTORES (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); HISTORY (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%) Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); FIDEL CASTRO (56%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Simon Romero; Victor (1802-1885) Hugo; Miguel De (1547-1616) Cervantes; John Kenneth Galbraith

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (88%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BELARUS (90%); SYRIA (88%); HAITI (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%) Venezuela; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



371 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Asks Finance Chiefs to Limit Iran's Access to Banks

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
The United States pressed the top finance officials of the world's leading industrial nations on Saturday to crack down on what Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. said was the exploitation of their banking systems by at least 30 Iranian front companies involved in illicit activities.
 Mr. Paulson said he had told the finance and economic ministers that the front companies were identified by American intelligence agencies as funneling money to terrororist groups using banks in Europe and elsewhere, many of them ''blue chip banks.'' 
Mr. Paulson said that many leading trading companies in Iran with legitimate business operations were also involved in the illicit activities, and that it behooved any legitimate bank to realize that it was risky to continue doing even legitimate business with the companies.
 He called on banks around the world to be ''vigilant'' in opposing such risks and to avoid ''inadvertently facilitating the kinds of activities that they wouldn't want to facilitate.'' 
 ''Iran is a country that has broad, deep and commercial relationships with much of the world that have gone on for some time,'' Mr. Paulson told reporters here. ''This was nothing more than an educational briefing to prepare financial institutions for dealing with some of the risks that are out there.''
 He said banks around the world also needed to stop doing business with North Korea, but added that North Korea was already almost entirely isolated from the world's financial system. By contrast, Iran is still a major player globally.
 The Treasury chief's comments came after he met with his counterparts from Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Canada, Japan and the European Union, who had come for the annual gathering of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
 The comments appeared to reflect the emerging Bush administration strategy on Iran as efforts to impose sanctions by the United Nations Security Council have faltered.
 The administration charges that Iran has a secret nuclear weapons program, a charge that Iran denies. Iran is also accused of transferring funds to Hezbollah and other Islamic militant organizations through regular commercial banks. 
 Last week, in what administration officials call a major escalation in the effort to squeeze Iran economically, the Treasury Department announced that Bank Saderat, a major bank in Iran, would no longer have even indirect access to the United States financial system.
 Banking experts say that the decree means that Iran will have difficulty selling anything for dollars through Bank Saderat, because any commercial exchange that uses dollars normally obtains them from an American bank. Oil in particularly is always traded in dollars. Many banking experts say the administration may make other banks off-limits soon.
 After the announcement on Bank Saderat, two senior Treasury officials visited Europe to try to persuade regulators and banks to stop doing business with Bank Saderat and any other banks that are alleged to be involved in illicit activities. Some European banks have already curtailed their activities with Iran, but many leading banks have refused.
 Stuart Levey, under secretary of the Treasury for terrorism and financial intelligence, visited Britain, France, Switzerland, Italy and Germany, and the deputy Treasury secretary, Robert Kimmitt, went to Germany. France, Italy and Germany have extensive commercial relations with Iran and its trading companies.
 The Treasury Department has declined to say whom they met with.
 Iran was only one of many subjects in Mr. Paulson's meetings with the finance ministers. Also on the agenda was a discussion of the world economy, which Mr. Paulson said had grown in recent years at rates that he and others had not seen in a generation. Despite that, he acknowledged risks arising from the failure of recent global trade talks, high energy prices and the problem of what are called ''economic imbalances.''
 That phrase is a euphemism for a broad set of problems, including the fact that the United States imports much more than it exports and has thus become the world's leading debtor, owing hundreds of billions of dollars to China, Japan and other trading partners. The United States says this problem can be remedied by the trading partners importing more from the United States and also by China allowing its currency to rise in value in relation to the dollar. 
 In a statement Saturday, the finance ministers of the leading industrial countries said, ''Greater exchange rate flexibility is desirable in emerging economies with large current-account surpluses, especially China.'' 
 As the finance ministers hold their meetings, representatives of more than 500 nongovernmental groups -- many of them dissenting from the policies of the bank, the fund and rich countries -- are holding meetings on the sidelines. 
 But Singapore's initial refusal to allow many of the representatives into the country gave them too little time to get here, even after Singapore relented under political pressure. As a result, several of the most outspoken critics of globalization are not at the meetings.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Henry M. Paulson Jr., the United States Treasury chief, in Singapore. (Photo by Wong Maye-E/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); MONEY LAUNDERING (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); TERRORISM (65%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%); HEZBOLLAH (65%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (61%); RELIGION (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) Terrorism; Finances; Assets, Frozen; United States International Relations; Money Laundering; Banks and Banking

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (93%) Steven R Weisman; Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%) Iran; North Korea

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



372 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: Two Tracks on Iran: Keep Talking, and Weigh Penalties

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and ELAINE SCIOLINO; Helene Cooper reported from Washington, and Elaine Sciolino from Paris.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 16 

 BODY:
After intense talks about Iran's nuclear program, the United States and other major world powers face two unappealing choices as the United Nations General Assembly opens this week: introduce a resolution in the Security Council for sanctions against Tehran that may not be tough enough to make a difference, or delay any punitive measures, rendering their diplomacy on Iran meaningless.
 So the Bush administration, along with Russia, China, France, Britain and Germany, have quietly shifted their strategy. 
In June, the six global powers offered Iran a take-it-or-leave-it package of incentives in an effort to persuade the country to abandon its nuclear ambitions. No negotiations would start unless Iran first froze its uranium enrichment activities.
 Now the six countries have offered a major concession. They are embarking on a two-track approach that allows the European Union foreign policy chief, Javier Solana, to conduct open-ended negotiations with Iran on the conditions for a suspension while the Security Council weighs punitive measures.
 Mr. Solana and Iran's chief negotiator, Ali Larijani, met twice last weekend and plan to hold talks on Sunday in New York, a senior Bush administration official said. 
 ''I think there's a chance that Iran sees it has to move,'' a European diplomat said Friday. ''We want to get those people to the table. The key thing here is to leave the door open.''
 In diplomatic terms, the embrace of what is being called the practical, two-track approach looks like a subtle change. But in reality it is a fundamental shift and an admission of how few options President Bush and his European allies have. 
 The Iran negotiations have a certain ''Groundhog Day'' quality. In the fall of 2003, the United States was raising pressure on its European allies to refer Iran to the Security Council for sanctions. But with Russia and China threatening to veto, Britain, France and Germany worked out a deal with Iran: no referral of Iran's nuclear program to the Security Council if Iran suspended uranium enrichment, the first step in making fuel for nuclear power or a bomb. 
 A lot has happened since then, but one thing is the same: Iran is still enriching uranium.
 The Bush administration is again ready to push forward on a sanctions package at the United Nations, but it is doubtful whether the United States and Europe will get Russia and China to sign on to anything but relatively mild sanctions, at least at first. Many analysts contend that Iran can withstand most of the measures under consideration, which include a travel ban against Iranian officials working in the nuclear program and restrictions on the sale of nuclear components to Tehran. 
 If Europe and the United States insist on tougher sanctions, Russia and China might balk, and the coalition -- fragile, but a conduit for pressure nonetheless -- could fall apart. That is why, despite the expiration of the Aug. 31 deadline for Iran to suspend enrichment or face sanctions, the United States and Europe remain willing to keep talking.
 Or rather, the United States remains willing to speak through Europe. 
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice pushed President Bush to offer to end Washington's policy of nearly three decades against direct talks with Iran if it suspended uranium enrichment. Iran has been seeking direct talks on any subject, seeking recognition of its growing regional influence and validation from its longstanding opponent. 
 But even though the Iranian president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, is also scheduled to be in New York for the General Assembly, Mr. Bush has dismissed the possibility of the two meeting. 
 At a news conference on Friday, he said: ''I have made it clear to the Iranian regime that we will sit down with the Iranians once they verifiably suspend their enrichment program. I meant what I said.''
 Nor will Ms. Rice or R. Nicholas Burns, the undersecretary of state for political affairs, meet with Mr. Larijani, American officials said.
 But, they said, administration officials will certainly be monitoring the Larijani-Solana talks.
 Foreign ministers from the six countries are planning to meet to discuss Iran on Tuesday or Wednesday. 
 European and American diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity according to normal diplomatic protocol, are still trying to determine whether Iran is serious about an offer they say Mr. Larijani made to suspend uranium enrichment for two months. 
 The diplomats say that Mr. Larijani has made the same overture several times, only to take it back, leaving the impression that he does not have the full authority to negotiate and that Iran's leadership is divided on nuclear strategy. The Iranians' 20-page response to the European Union on the proffered incentives -- rambling and imprecise -- strongly suggests that there are differing camps within Iran. 
 Indeed, in remarks to reporters on Friday, Mr. Solana acknowledged that there are divisions in Tehran, which he said were the reason he did not meet with Mr. Larijani this week. ''A little bit more time was needed in order to reach a consensus in his own country among his own leadership'' to ''convey to me a possible positive answer,'' Mr. Solana said.
 The European foreign policy chief's inclination to continue talking, meanwhile, has frustrated the Bush administration.
 ''Larijani and Solana have been engaged in this minuet,'' a senior Bush administration official said. ''The U.S. view is that those talks are worthwhile, but not sufficient. We will be moving early in the week to move forward on a sanctions resolution.''
 If Iran does take up the offer, it is one that the United States and Europe should not refuse, said Robert J. Einhorn, a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and former assistant secretary of state for nonproliferation under President Bill Clinton. 
 ''If the Europeans and Iranians can cobble together even a limited-duration suspension, we could dodge another bullet, at least for a while,'' Mr. Einhorn said. But, he added, ''it's not at all clear we're going to get to that point. Even their initial offer had a lot of provisos.''
 Some analysts say that neither the international pressure on Iran, nor Iran's enrichment program, is likely to end soon. 
 ''Next year,'' said George Perkovich, a nonproliferation expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington, ''we're going to be at the same spot still.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ali Larijani, Iran's negotiator, left, and Javier Solana, Europe's foreign policy chief, seen recently, are expected to meet today in New York. (Photo by Austrian Federal Chancellery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); VETO (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); TERRORISM (60%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Terrorism; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%) United Nations; European Union

PERSON: JAVIER SOLANA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); ALI LARIJANI (73%) Helene Cooper; Elaine Sciolino; Javier Solana

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); FRANCE (94%); IRAN (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AUSTRIA (56%) Iran; Great Britain; France; Germany; Russia; China; Iran; Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



373 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1799 words

HEADLINE: U.S. AND STATE PLAN TO OCCUPY FREEDOM TOWER

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The federal and New York State governments have tentatively agreed to become anchor tenants in the Freedom Tower, the tallest, most symbolic and most scrutinized skyscraper project at ground zero, under a plan expected to be announced today by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the governors of New York and New Jersey. 
 The agreements, which would cover about 1 million of the 2.6 million square feet in the building, are a significant step forward in the development of the tower, which is seen by Gov. George E. Pataki and others as a symbol of the city's resilience, but regarded by some critics as folly.
The building has been bedeviled by squabbling and delays, as well as questions about design and security and whether there would be enough demand for office space downtown to keep it financially sound. 
 The Freedom Tower, which would rise to the emblematic height of 1,776 feet, including the antenna, is one of four office towers planned for the 16-acre site. 
 With the governor and the mayor eager to show progress five years after the terrorist attack on the trade center, the lease agreements would be the latest in a flurry of announcements, which included a tentative agreement in April to speed the reconstruction of the site and the creation in May of a $500 million plan for a memorial to the victims of the attack.
 But significant questions remain about the lease agreements, including whether they would actually become signed contracts. The federal leases need Congressional approval, and the state leases would require approval by the governor, comptroller and attorney general. 
 The leading candidate to succeed Mr. Pataki, Eliot Spitzer, the Democratic attorney general, has questioned the economic viability of the tower, calling it a ''white elephant.'' His campaign declined to comment on the agreements. 
 Officials sought to lure public agencies to the Freedom Tower when they failed to interest any private companies. Critics say one major concern is that the building will be a target for terrorists, but state officials have said that the tower, after a recent redesign at the behest of the police department, is safe.
 The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the site, and the Pataki administration have signed an outline of lease terms with the State Office of General Services on a 15-year lease for 415,000 square feet of space in the Freedom Tower. General Services is likely to move the State Labor Department, as well as the Insurance and Finance Departments, into the tower. 
 State officials said they expected to sign a formal lease in the coming months and have the option of taking as much as 1 million square feet in the future. 
 The federal General Services Administration has signed a memorandum of agreement to move the Customs and Border Protection agency, as well as other federal agencies, into more than 600,000 square feet. 
 The agencies have tentatively agreed to pay an initial annual rent of $59 per square foot, or about $59 million a year, at the building, which is scheduled to open in 2012. 
 ''I was very confident from the beginning that it could work,'' Mr. Pataki said in an interview. ''Now with this commitment of 1 million square feet of leases, it is clearly not just economically viable, but now it will be built and it will be occupied. We will have a new tower that sends a powerful message of restoration and resurgence.''
 Both Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey and Mayor Bloomberg issued statements hailing the agreements as a significant step toward restoring the World Trade Center site as a commercial hub in Lower Manhattan. 
 The tentative agreements reflect progress in Governor Pataki's nearly four-year effort to build the Freedom Tower. But final approval of the project by the Port Authority may be months away, which could put it in the hands of the next New York governor, who takes office in January.
 When the Port Authority agreed in April to take over responsibility for building the $2.3 billion tower from the developer Larry A. Silverstein, it set several conditions. The authority, which leased the property to Mr. Silverstein, was seeking a viable financial plan, including signed leases for 1 million square feet in the Freedom Tower by the time its board meets on Thursday. 
 The authority expects to get $973 million in insurance proceeds from the destruction of the twin towers, as well as $250 million from the Pataki administration, but it wanted a cash flow from leases to pay its mortgage.
 ''We're pleased with the progress that's been made regarding the commitments by state and federal agencies at the Freedom Tower,'' said Anthony R. Coscia, chairman of the authority. ''We're hopeful that we will be able to develop an acceptable plan of finance that will allow its construction to proceed uninterrupted and in a manner that's financially responsible to the Port Authority, the city and the region.''
 Mr. Coscia said it was unlikely that the Port Authority would grant final approval of the Freedom Tower project on Thursday, but he said it would probably go forward with the development of three office towers on the eastern side of the site, along Church Street. The Freedom Tower would sit at the northwest corner of the trade center site on West Street, south of Vesey Street. It has had a somewhat tortured history. The architect Daniel Libeskind's initial master plan for rebuilding the trade center site recommended building the memorial to the victims of Sept. 11 first, the Church Street towers second, and the tallest tower in the third phase. Mr. Silverstein, who had an obligation to rebuild the trade center complex, also argued that it made sense to start with the towers closest to the PATH station on Church Street.
 But at a downtown breakfast meeting more than three years ago, Mr. Pataki named the tallest of the proposed buildings at ground zero the Freedom Tower. He said it would be built first and by 2008. That time goal has been abandoned, but the desire to build the skyscraper remains.
 The design for the building was selected by Governor Pataki after he overruled a committee that had chosen a different architectural scheme. But then it had to be redrawn to accommodate the Police Department's security concerns, because the building would sit on West Street. The design now calls for a 186-foot-tall fortified concrete base sheathed in prismatic glass. Work on the foundation and footings has begun.
 Urban planners, civic groups and some real estate executives have questioned the wisdom of building the Freedom Tower, which, they say, is too expensive, farther away from the transportation hub than the other towers, and is unlikely to attract corporate tenants, most of which regard the skyscraper as a potential target for terrorists. Indeed, the Port Authority declined to move into the building, saying it would be traumatic for its employees, who lost 84 coworkers in the Sept. 11 attacks.
 Under the standard of 250 square feet per worker, the space under consideration could accommodate 4,000 government employees. Officials of the unions representing federal and state workers could not be reached for comment yesterday. 
 ''It's going to be one of the most expensive buildings ever built in Manhattan,'' said the developer Douglas Durst, who owns a number of Midtown office buildings and is building a skyscraper on 42nd Street. ''To saddle already overburdened taxpayers of New York with the rent necessary to pay for it makes no sense at all.''
 Critics say that current plans to build more than eight million square feet of office space at the trade center site recall the plans for the original complex, which depressed the downtown real estate market for years when the Port Authority built 10 million square feet of publicly-subsidized office space at one time. 
 With few tenant prospects, the Port Authority and the state were forced to fill much of the space with public agencies. It was not until the mid-1980's that the state began relocating to other buildings.
 Some real estate executives said the government agencies will be paying a premium over the lower rents in older buildings downtown. But John Cahill, who oversees ground zero development for Governor Pataki, said that the Freedom Tower would have more-efficient floors that would allow for technological innovation and consolidation. 
 Although it is not a formal lease, Mr. Cahill said that Governor Pataki had gotten a ''firm commitment from the White House'' that the Customs Service would return to the trade center site. He added that the agreement with the federal General Services Administration and the state agencies should ''enhance the attractiveness'' of the Freedom Tower to corporate tenants.
 There may also be a financial incentive, since about $345 million in insurance proceeds from the destruction of the old Customs building can be used to build its space in the Freedom Tower. State officials said they did not think that the money could be transferred elsewhere.
 Lurita Doan, administrator of the General Services Administration, said in a statement that ''the return of the federal government to Lower Manhattan and their presence in the Freedom Tower is more than symbolic; it is a commitment to the building of a memorial that captures the American spirit.''
 Governor Pataki said that all the signature elements of the trade center master plan are now in place, from the $2.2 billion PATH train station to the memorial, the office buildings and the Freedom Tower.
 Some officials involved in rebuilding say that the final decision may go to the next governor. ''We're six to months away from the point that we're full steam ahead,'' said a senior executive, who requested anonymity because he did not want a public spat with Governor Pataki.
 The governor said he was confident that nothing could stop construction of the Freedom Tower.
 ''The commitments we're making now will apply into the future,'' he said. ''I'm very confident that the brilliance of the plan and the momentum with actual construction will continue regardless of who the next governor is.''
 Under the April agreement, between New York State, New York City, New Jersey and Mr. Silverstein, the Port Authority took responsibility for the Freedom Tower, which, officials said, Mr. Silverstein was reluctant to build without any anchor tenants. The developer, in turn, retained the right to build three towers along Church Street. 
 But he was put on a strict schedule requiring him to complete the buildings by 2012.
 State and Port Authority executives have been working round the clock in recent weeks with Mr. Silverstein to complete the agreement struck in April. Both sides say they have made considerable progress in narrowing their differences.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 19, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article in some copies on Sunday about tentative agreements by the federal and New York State governments to become anchor tenants in the Freedom Tower at ground zero misstated in some copies the number of employees of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey who died in the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center. It is 84, not 74.

GRAPHIC: Photo: An artist's rendering of the Freedom Tower at the World Trade Center site in Lower Manhattan. (Photo by Silverstein Properties)(pg. 40)Map of Manhattan highlighting the planned site of the Freedom Tower: The Freedom Tower will be at the northwest corner of ground zero. (pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); HIJACKING (74%); POLICE FORCES (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (50%) Terrorism; Pentagon Building; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Renting and Leasing; Terrorism; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%) Charles V Bagli; George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York City; Washington (DC) 

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



374 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: In Russia, Business-Class Killings

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
VIOLENT deaths continuously punctuate the civic discourse in Russia. The list of victims and motives is grim and long: contract hits on rivals, bombs to settle business disputes, racist attacks on laborers from the Caucasus or Central Asia and students from Africa or South America, and the almost regular killings of police officers in Russian republics where ethnic and religious tensions are inflamed. These are all part of the unsettled life in a nation still recovering from Lenin's failed experiment. 
 But the murder last week of Andrei Kozlov, one of Russia's top bank regulators, served as a reminder that even the upper strata of society here are not immune from the vicious rules of the Russian street. Mr. Kozlov, who had been spearheading banking reform, was ambushed Wednesday night as he left a soccer game. Two assassins shot him in the torso and the head, then threw their pistols to the ground as they ran away. No arrests have been made.
 Investigators and Mr. Kozlov's colleagues say he was almost certainly killed because of his work. He had been closing disreputable banks and pressuring money launderers -- risky endeavors by any estimate. As Russia's middle class has grown and its larger cities have undergone surges of development, the image of a nation in the grip of businessmen flanked by thick-necked men with assault rifles has softened. But the violence continues, at a slower pace since President Vladimir V. Putin came to power in 2000, but alarming nonetheless.
 The crusading Russian-American journalist, Paul Klebnikov, was murdered by contract killers in 2004; Mr. Klebnikov, an editor at Forbes, specialized in describing the links of Russian money and power. Anatoly Chubais, the architect of privatization who is now head of Russia's electricity monopoly, narrowly dodged a bomb-and-rifle ambush in 2005; he was saved by his armored car as his bodyguards opened fire to allow his escape.
 Although the victims are rarely of such high stature, new examples abound of business disputes or efforts at business protection leading to gunfire and bombings. The nation reacts with resigned familiarity. Few foreign business executives have bodyguards, but the possibility of violence is part of the business fabric, along with endemic corruption and an arbitrary state bureaucracy. 
 While the squeamish may be steering clear, investors seem undeterred. The Russian economy is booming. There is money to be made. On the day Mr. Kozlov was pronounced dead, there was public hand-wringing, but the Russian stock market rose.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Death Toll -- Sergei Yushenkov, a political ally of the billionaire Boris Berezovsky, was killed in 2003. (Photo by Dmitriy Lebedev/Kommersant -- Agence France-Presse)
(Photo by by Associated Press)Chart: ''Hit List''APRIL 2002 -- Valery Ivanov (pictured with his murdered successor at right), founder of The Togliatti Review, a tabloid covering corruption and crime in a city that made 75 percent of Russia's cars, shot dead.MAY 2002 -- Vitaly Gamov, a Russian coast guard general on a campaign to end poaching, dies after three Molotov cocktails are thrown into his apartment.AUGUST 2002 -- Vladimir Golovlyov, co-chairman of the Liberal Russia Party, shot while walking his dog in a Moscow park. Killing may have been linked to his previous dealings as a privatization official in Siberia.OCTOBER 2002 -- Valentin Tsvetkov, governor of the gold-rich Magadan region in Russia's far east, shot dead in Moscow.APRIL 2003 -- Sergei Yushenkov, co-leader of the Liberal Russia Party, gunned down in Moscow as he walked home. Members of the party convicted of ordering the killing in dispute over party money. Boris Berezovsky, the exiled tycoon who helped organize the party, accuses government authorities of organizing the killing. They deny it.JUNE 2003 -- Igor Klimov, director general of Russia's largest antiaircraft missile producer, Almaz-Antei, shot dead outside his apartment building.JULY 2003 -- Yuri Shchekochikin, journalist investigating Russian security agencies, dies from what is widely believed to be deliberate poisoning.OCTOBER 2003 -- Aleksei Sidorov, above right, editor of The Togliatti Review, stabbed and killed outside his apartment building. He is with his predecessor, Valery Ivanov, who was killed in 2002.JULY 2004 -- Paul Klebnikov, American of Russian descent and editor of the Russia edition of Forbes, shot dead in Moscow. Klebnikov had written about corruption. Russian prosecutors said the killing was carried out by two ethnic Chechens on behalf of a Chechen rebel figure who was the subject of a book by Klebnikov. But a jury acquitted them amid allegations of tampering.MARCH 2005 -- Anatoly Chubais, chief of Russia's electricity monopoly and architect of Russia's privatization in 1990's, survived ambush, escaping roadside bomb and gunfire outside Moscow.APRIL 2005 -- Anatoly Trofimov, businessman and former chief of the Moscow branch of the Federal Security Service, the successor to the K.G.B., under President Boris Yeltsin, shot dead from passing car in Moscow.OCTOBER 2005 -- Aleksandr Slesarev, former head of two banks that had their licenses revoked for suspected money laundering and other irregularities, gunned down in his car.SEPTEMBER 2006 -- Andrei Kozlov, first deputy chairman of Russia's Central Bank, dies after being shot by unidentified gunmen outside a sports arena in Moscow.(Sources by Reuters
Associated Press
The Moscow News
Toronto Star
The New York Times
 The Christian Science Monitor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASSASSINATION (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); MURDER (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); FIREARMS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CORRUPTION (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); JOURNALISM (69%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); WRITERS (64%); SOCCER (54%) Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations ; Freedom of the Press

PERSON: BORIS BEREZOVSKY (88%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) C J Chivers; Andrei Kozlov

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); ASIA (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



375 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; T: Men's Fashion Magazine; Pg. 204

LENGTH: 4452 words

HEADLINE: What Makes Giorgio Run?

BYLINE: By Alice Rawsthorn

 BODY:
When Bono edited a special issue of the British newspaper The Independent this summer, he sent a copy to Giorgio Armani with an inscription scrawled around the front page. ''Senor Armani,'' it read. ''You are an inspiration to me to not let go of detail and control of ideas and aesthetic. Only to God must we let go. A blessing ... Bono.''
Addressing the most famous living Italian as a Spanish ''senor'' and not ''signore'' doesn't augur well for Bono's future as a control freak. But, for all his charming Irish blarney, Bono, the lead singer of U2, had one thing right: no one could ever accuse Giorgio Armani of letting go. 
 Take the scene backstage at the Emporio Armani men's show in Milan last June. The models lined up while Armani put the finishing touches to their makeup. They lined up again while he knotted neckties, adjusted the angle of hats, ruffled handkerchiefs in top pockets and fussed over buttons. Then he showed each one exactly how to pose. Once they'd hit the runway, Armani, a lithe 72 in his summer uniform of a tight navy blue T-shirt and baggy shorts, raced to the entrance, where he scrutinized the show on a plasma screen. Whenever he spotted something amiss, Armani pointed it out to a colleague, who sprinted off to correct it.
 He isn't just like this at show time. ''I've never met anyone whose attention to detail is so obsessive,'' notes Ron Frasch, the vice chairman of Saks Fifth Avenue. ''He personally approves every necktie, every swatch of fabric. If you think of all the products his company puts out each year, that's incredible.''
 Famous photographers who arrive to take his portrait must do it Armani's way, right down to the lighting. Art directors are told exactly how to produce his ads. Musicians arrive for fittings to discover that Armani himself will be doing the pinning. Before the opening of the Teatro Armani building in Milan, its architect, Tadao Ando, remembers Armani checking the angle and sightline of each of the 558 seats. Pauline Denyer, the wife of the fashion designer Paul Smith, reports a sighting of him sweeping the sidewalk outside one of his Milan boutiques. The furniture designer Mario Bellini, who has lived next door to Armani on Via Borgonuovo in Milan for more than 20 years, observes: ''Our neighbors say that every morning he wakes up, runs down the street to look at the windows of his stores on Via Manzoni. He makes a mental note of everything that's wrong, and tells his staff.''
 That sort of dedication has paid off. After 30 years of extraordinary success, Giorgio Armani will go down in history as the man who defined the working wardrobe of the late-20th century and taught Hollywood how to dress. As the president, chief executive and sole shareholder of a company that generated 5 billion euros (about $6.4 billion) in retail sales last year, he is the world's wealthiest fashion designer, with a fortune estimated by Forbes at $4.5 billion. Ask a fashionista to name the most important designer working today, and she'll probably say Nicolas Ghesquiere, of Balenciaga (at least she would this season). But if you asked anyone else -- that's the 99.9 percent of the population who buy clothes, rather than design, style or write about them -- they'd say Giorgio Armani. ''Like all the truly great designers in fashion history, Giorgio Armani is about style, not fashion,'' observes Franca Sozzani, the editor in chief of Italian Vogue. ''They find their style, and they stick to it, and that's what he has done.''
 For all his wealth and fame, Armani still subjects himself every six months to the masochistic ritual of reassessment by the fashion press. He spends his days in meeting after meeting after meeting. He rarely walks, as if to do so would waste valuable time, but races from place to place chased by flustered assistants. Like their boss, they are dressed as if fresh from the gym, where Signore Armani, as they call him, works out for at least an hour each day. This, too, has paid off. Armani looks astonishingly buff for his age, despite his white hair and the deep wrinkles etched beneath his tan. The wrinkles lend character to his delicate features, but what you remember most from Armani's face are his searing, ice-blue eyes.
 ''Do I ever think of retiring?'' he asks, repeating my question over lunch in Milan. ''Yes. Some mornings I think, That's it. I'll visit my houses, sail my boat, go to the country, walk my dogs and buy Picassos. But that would mean the end, because my life is to work. My life would be empty. What would I do? I couldn't travel with people my own age, because I have absolutely no inclination to spend time with old men and women. I much prefer to be around young people who challenge me. They keep me sharp and in touch with what's happening. That's why I carry on.''
 But what is the future of a company owned and run by a 72-year-old control freak? However profitable the brand and however smart and focused its founder (and Armani is preternaturally endowed with both qualities, as anyone unlucky enough to have negotiated with him will attest), the question is unavoidable. ''The future is my biggest challenge,'' admits Armani, who founded his business with his boyfriend 31 years ago by selling their Volkswagen Bug. ''And I'm addressing it now.'' But he's been saying that for years.
 To understand Giorgio Armani, and why he is so driven, you have to go to Piacenza, the dour industrial city in the Emilia-Romagna region of northern Italy where he was born in 1934. There's an Italian saying that if a stranger goes to Romagna, he or she would be given a glass of wine, but in Emilia, he would be lucky to get a glass of water; Piacenza is in Emilia. 
 Life there was especially hard during Armani's childhood. He was 5 when World War II began, and the local factories became a target of Allied bombing raids. His mother took him to live in a nearby village with his older brother, Sergio, and younger sister Rosanna, while their father stayed behind to work in the offices of Mussolini's Fascist Party. Some of Armani's friends were killed in the raids, and he and Rosanna had a close call when they spotted a bomber. ''We jumped into a hole beside the road and hid beneath my jacket,'' he says.
 After the war, he was badly injured by a land mine. A friend died, and Armani was hospitalized for 40 days. ''I looked so horrible that when a friend came to see me, he fainted with shock,'' recalls Armani, whose eyesight was permanently weakened. The family suffered financially when Armani's father found himself out of work and condemned as a collaborator: ''When I first saw the Italian neorealist films, I didn't enjoy them at all. I'd lived the life, and I didn't like to be reminded of it.''
 The dominant force in the family was Armani's mother, Mariu. ''We were a happy, loving family, but my mother was tough, very tough,'' he says. ''One night my parents went out, and so was my brother, leaving my sister and me alone in the house. I'd seen a film that had frightened me, and I couldn't stop thinking about it. When my parents came back, I was crying. My mother said, 'What's wrong, Gio?' When I told her, she slapped me. I wasn't scared after that. She said very little, but her words were well chosen. I'm just like her.''
 Armani did well at school and won a place to study medicine at university. After serving in the military for two years, he abandoned his studies and in 1957 found a job as a display assistant and buyer at La Rinascente in Milan, then one of Europe's chicest department stores. Shortly afterward, he fell in love with the architect Sergio Galeotti. Gabriella Forte, who met the couple in 1979 and worked for Armani until 1994, recalls: ''Everything about Sergio was so elegant. The way he spoke, his posture, his clothes, his laughter, everything. And he spoke with such love of Giorgio.''
 After seven years at La Rinascente, learning about window dressing and merchandising, Armani joined the men's-wear designer Nino Cerruti, where he was drilled in tailoring and production.
 In 1975 Galeotti persuaded Armani, then 40, to start his own label for both men and women. He would run the business, while Armani designed. Unusual for a designer, his work was equally appealing to both men and women, but Armani was blessed with luck as well as talent.
 By the mid-70's, the influence of the French couturiers, who had dominated global fashion since Christian Dior unveiled his New Look in 1947, was waning. Locked in the couture tradition, the French clothing industry had not adapted to the expansion of the ready-to-wear market in the the late 60's. The glittering exception was Yves Saint Laurent, but by the mid-70's his health was declining.
 Italian manufacturers decided to fill the vacuum by investing in local designers, and did so on unusually favorable terms. They financed production and marketing and paid the designers a percentage of the profits. New designers like Armani and Gianni Versace could begin their businesses free from debt, with ambitious fashion shows and advertising campaigns. Armani and Galeotti did a deal with one of the biggest manufacturers, GFT.
 Like most new designers, Armani wanted to dress people his own age, and when he was 40, his taste was more conservative than that of the typical designer ingenue. He drew inspiration from the fashions of his youth, the 1930's and 40's. ''People were so elegant and proper then,'' he recalls. ''I hated the styles of the 1960's and 1970's. Women in miniskirts looking like roast pigs with fat legs.'' As youth culture erupted in punk nihilism, Armani unveiled what would become his signature style: a soft, deconstructed suit. He took the business uniform of the day, which was stiff and heavily structured -- another legacy of the French couture tradition -- and removed the stiffness, as Neapolitan tailors had done for years in the light suits they created for the Mediterranean heat. 
 He refined their deconstructed tailoring by finessing the cut, developing beautiful fabrics and experimenting with new styles of collars, fastenings and cuffs. Armani feminized men's tailoring, using cuts and fabrics traditionally reserved for women, while adding the same ease to women's wear but with an elegant authority. He targeted the largest and most affluent part of the market -- the over-35 crowd -- where there was less competition and a genuine need for change.
 What we now think of as classic Armani -- his studied simplicity -- was reflected in the work of contemporary Italian furniture designers like Bellini and Vico Magistretti. His use of neutral colors -- beiges, grays and blacks -- and muted patterns was evocative of Milanese architecture and, more particularly, the lowlands around Piacenza, where, observes Carlo Antonelli, the editor in chief of the Italian edition of Rolling Stone, ''there is a strange light and a strange mist.''
 Armani insisted on creating his own advertising, helped by his sister Rosanna and inspired by images from his favorite Visconti and Bertolucci movies. Armed with GFT's investment, they booked the back page of every issue of L'Uomo Vogue magazine. ''As soon as it arrived, I'd turn to the Armani ad,'' Paul Smith remembers. ''His techniques were radical for the time. He treated fabric in ways that no one had done before. My wife, Pauline, was teaching fashion design, and her students begged to see what he'd done next.''
 The L'Uomo Vogue ads so impressed Fred Pressman, the owner of Barneys New York, that, in 1976, he phoned the Italian Trade Commission in New York trying to track down Armani and spoke with Forte, who was working there. ''I had no clue who Giorgio Armani was, but I found his name in the Milan telephone directory,'' she says. ''It was 5 p.m. in New York, and I dialed totally forgetting that it was 11 p.m. in Milan. Sergio said: 'I don't know when we'll be in New York, we have a lot going on.' I didn't realize that they'd just started and had very little going on.'' Barneys placed a large order, and Forte later joined Armani, first to develop the United States retail business and then, after 1985, to be his right hand worldwide.
 Another stroke of luck was a call from the filmmaker Paul Schrader, an Armani customer at Maxfield in Hollywood. He asked whether Armani would do John Travolta's wardrobe for his next movie, ''American Gigolo.'' Armani agreed, only to have to alter the clothes when Travolta dropped out and was replaced by a then-unknown named Richard Gere. Louche and sexy, Gere was perfectly cast for the narcissism of the moment -- after disco but before AIDS, when gym culture was taking off and even straight men were losing their hang-ups about being seen to look good. In one scene, the bare-chested Gere bops around his bedroom composing outfits of lush Armani suits with color-coordinated shirts and ties. It was a priceless advertisement.
 The brand hit the mainstream when the economy was buoyant and a new breed of executive was emerging: young, urban professionals, who adopted Armani as their uniform. In 1982, Time magazine ran a cover article on ''Giorgio's Gorgeous Style.'' Success in the United States made Armani a hero in Italy, where, after the trauma of 1970's terrorism, he was hailed as a catalyst of the country's economic resurgence.
 By the mid-80's, he and Galeotti could exercise more control over the way the collection was promoted and sold. Like other Italian labels, Armani demanded favorable coverage from magazines in return for advertising, a practice that designers in other countries soon adopted. He also told department stores how to design their sales areas and imposed quotas on the orders, insisting that a specific proportion was spent on new pieces shown on the runway, with the remainder on classic designs. ''You couldn't go in and say, 'I want so many jackets, and this and that,''' recalls Ron Frasch, who was then at Neiman Marcus. ''They decided how you bought and presented the collection. And you couldn't say no. Mr. Armani was it.''
 Armani and Galeotti enjoyed their newfound wealth. They bought a holiday home on the island of Pantelleria and rented a palazzo to house their apartment and the business. Armani bought a house for his mother, his father having died in 1960. ''I gave her a life that she could never have imagined with a housekeeper, a chauffeur and a dog. One day she said to me, 'Giorgio, thank you, but it's too late.'''
 In 1985, Galeotti died. Not only did Armani have to cope with the loss of his partner of nearly 30 years, but he also had to learn how to run a global business from scratch: ''Sometimes it was very, very difficult to have to handle things on my own, but Sergio wouldn't have wanted someone else to take his place.'' Armani says that his biggest problem was dealing with lawyers: ''It was as if they were speaking a secret language. But I learned. Eventually I had the confidence to tell the lawyer who'd worked for me for years that he was too expensive.''
 Today it is hard to imagine that he ever faltered. As the global luxury industry has expanded, so has Armani, which now owns more than 350 stores worldwide and employs nearly 5,000 people. The company has moved into new countries, notably China and Russia, and new markets, from Armani Jeans at one end of the price scale to the Armani Prive couture collection at the other. It has also expanded into new product sectors, like Armani Casa and cosmetics. Next up is a range of skin-care products and a luxury hotel chain. Armani is even tapping into the burgeoning market for conscientious consumption through his involvement with American Express, Motorola and the Gap on the launch of the Red range of products, a percentage of whose profits will be donated to the Global Fund for AIDS.
 Armani's discipline and steeliness have served him well in business. ''He has tremendous clarity of vision,'' notes Alexander Vreeland, the president of the GAV apparel company, who worked for Armani in the 1990's. ''I've sat with him in meetings dealing with a broad spectrum of complex business issues, and he demonstrated an incredible grasp of detail and innovative solutions.''
 The designer has also acquired a taste for cutting deals. ''I really enjoy it,'' he says with relish. ''I don't look like a businessman, or dress like one, and that's an advantage, because it throws my opponents.'' When GFT hit a rough spot, Armani bought up the factories that made his products. Three years ago he severed one of his oldest and most profitable licensees with Luxottica, the Italian eyewear maker run by Leonardo Del Vecchio. ''It had been a great business for us both, but I'd said from the start that I wanted to have the last word on the collection,'' Armani says. ''One day Mr. Del Vecchio came to me saying that he wanted the last word. That was it.''
 Armani has eight homes -- from a pied-a-terre on Central Park West to a 1950's mansion near Piacenza -- but spends almost all of his time in the Via Borgonuovo apartment beside his studio and office. Occasional weekends are spent at his houses in Forte dei Marmi, Portofino and 
 St.-Tropez, and he visits Pantelleria every August and the Caribbean at Christmas. He travels with an entourage of employees and relatives, all of whom work for the company: Rosanna, as an art director; her son Andrea, on the commercial side; and Sergio Armani's daughters, Silvana as a designer and Roberta in public relations.
 He has little interest in socializing outside that circle. ''I don't feel comfortable with the jet set,'' he admits. ''It just isn't me.'' At a lunch for his couture clients after the Armani Prive show in Paris last July, Armani spoke politely to the guests at his table in French and Italian (he has never learned English) before darting off to discuss the arrangements for an afternoon meeting with his cosmetics licensee L'Oreal. Armani's employees whisper that he has a fiery temper when things go awry, but in conversation he is crisply polite, though his courtesy sometimes seems like a ploy to dispense with people swiftly. Even in his youth, there was no ''lost'' period of partying for Armani. The only time he remembers being drunk was at his niece Roberta's wedding. ''He was so funny,'' she recalls, ''jumping up to sing 'O Sole Mio' with Bryan Adams.'' Armani is often spoken of in fashion circles as a forlorn, isolated figure, but he seems more like an exceptionally determined character who has organized his life exactly as he likes it. 
 By the otherworldly standards of a multibillionaire, that life is relatively frugal. Deal-making aside, his principal passion is still cinema. Armani's face lights up when he talks about it, calling out to colleagues to remind him of the name of an obscure Roberto Rossellini or Vittorio de Sica picture. ''One of the things that connects us is a love of Italian neorealist cinema,'' says the director Martin Scorsese, who has known Armani since the early 1980's. ''He's tremendously knowledgeable about it.'' Rather than build a screening room, Armani prefers to see movies in local cinemas. ''People are always surprised to see me there, but for me part of the pleasure of seeing a film is to watch it with other people,'' he says. His chief extravagance is the $15 million boat he bought three years ago and has since refitted in his favorite grays and beiges, with matte metalwork and black ropes, and named Mariu after his mother. ''He could never quite reconcile himself to having spent so much money on the boat,'' recounts an employee. ''But then he was told that he could charter it.'' The Mariu has proved so popular -- the gallery owner Larry Gagosian holidayed on it this summer -- that Armani is designing a second boat to be chartered, too.
 Not everything has worked. The jury is still out on Armani Casa, and we have yet to see an Armani ''It'' bag, but the disappointments pale beside the achievements. As Fiat and the other industrial dynasties that dominated postwar Italy have declined, Armani has thrived. ''He represents the side of Italy that we like to show to the world, the disciplined, hardworking side,'' observes Mario Bellini. '''King Giorgio,' that's what the Italian newspapers call him.''
 The fashion press isn't as obsequious. Editors have always preferred fragile neurasthenics like Yves Saint Laurent, who suffer for their ''art,'' to doughty pragmatists. They also prefer new looks to timelessly elegant classics and complain that Armani never does anything new. That said, the reviews are much more favorable for his classic collections than for creative stretches like last fall's roundly criticized women's silk bloomers. He doesn't help matters by firing off complaints about critical coverage.
 The company is equally highhanded in dealing with retailers, who still have to buy their quota from the runway show alongside the classics, regardless of whether they want to. ''Recently there have been some awkward, over-the-top pieces on the runway,'' says one retailer, who asked not to be named so as not to jeopardize the merchant's relationship with the company. ''We're buying them because we have to, but the customers aren't. Thank God that there's a large classic component in the collection.'' When it comes to retail real estate, Armani is equally inflexible. Says another retailer: ''There's a bit of polite Italian banter, but basically they come in and say, 'We want this position, and the fit-out will be like this.' There's no negotiation and no compromise. And there's nothing you can do because the selling power of the Armani brand is so immense. It's just huge.''
 Armani's selling power is still increasing -- with gross sales, according to company reports, up 10 percent to 1.43 billion euros, or about $1.8 billion, last year. And while the ascent of the personal stylist has ended his dominance on the red carpet, Armani is still the label of choice for the creative establishment. Scorsese loves ''the classic simplicity'' of his clothes, and for the producer Harvey Weinstein, it's ''always Armani for formal occasions.'' The theater director Robert Wilson says that Armani's designs ''make people look good and quiet and feel comfortable.''
 To members of the fashion press, that's about as exciting as saying that his clothes last for years, that you get expert service at the Armani counter and that his cuts and cross-weaves cleverly flatter older, plumper figures. Herein lies the dislocation between the fashionista's image of Armani and the public's. Most of the people who buy expensive clothes aren't obsessively cool 20-year-olds; they're years older and pounds heavier. They don't have the time or confidence to aspire to dress fashionably, and as Armani's classics have never let them down, they buy them again. ''Armani is a safe bet, and that's what most people want,'' says the brand consultant Susanne Tide-Frater, a former creative director of Selfridges and Harrods in London. 
 ''The thing about Giorgio Armani is that he owns sophistication. No one else in the market does.''
 All of Armani's marketing evokes that quality. He and Rosanna have worked with many famous fashion photographers over the years, from Peter Lindbergh to Mert and Marcus, but Armani ads always look the same. ''They have the grabbed quality of cinema, and the heightened realism of Visconti's neorealist films,'' Scorsese says. Rather than telling a story about that season's collection, as Prada and Marc Jacobs do, Armani's campaigns convey a single generic message: sophistication. By using the same elegant serif typeface across every product line, Armani ensures that the sight of one logo reminds the customers of all of the others, too. The marketing is so clear and consistent that even those with no knowledge of fashion remember the name and what it represents, just as they do with a BMW or a Mercedes logo. As a result, the brand has more in common with those luxury marquees than the hot fashion labels of the moment.
 So far, success has enabled Armani to rebuff the luxury conglomerates and investment bankers who have trooped through Via Borgonuovo hoping to buy his business. One of Armani's favorite stories is of a visit by four Italian industrialists who wanted to buy his company with an elderly banker: ''He was the most powerful man in Italian banking, and while the others spoke, he sat there, not saying a word. Then he looked over at the other men and said: 'My dear sirs, Mr. Armani doesn't need us. Let's go.'''
 Success has also allowed Armani to ignore the question of succession. He says he has decided against a single successor, in favor of building a team. But at 72, without a firm plan in place, his options to secure his company's future are narrowing. Could he float it on the stock market? Possibly, but not at its full value. Would another company buy or invest in it? The answer is the same. So far, licensees have continued to invest in new launches, but that may change if the succession isn't settled. Armani says that his family will inherit his wealth and that the company will be run independently, possibly through a foundation, but, no, he hasn't set one up yet. And in the meantime there are hotels to plan, stores to open, new products to launch and a second boat to design. ''My problem is time,'' Giorgio Armani says with a sigh, ''always time.''

 Clockwise from left: the architect Tadao Ando with Armani; the Ando-designed Teatro Armani building in Milan; a show invitation (below left).; The interior of Armani's $15 million boat, above; he named the ship, right, Mariu, after his mother. He considers the boat his chief extravagance.; Left: Armani at a fitting for his fall 2006 runway show. He usually puts the finishing details on the models himself. An associate describes his attention to detail as ''obsessive.''; Opening in 2008, the Burj Dubai, far left, is to include an Armani Hotel. Left and above: Charlize Theron and George Clooney have donned Armani on the red carpet.; Giorgio Armani Fall 90; Giorgio Armani spring 92; Giorgio Armani spring 96; Giorgio Armani Fall 06; emporio Armani spring 07 prive (CLOCKWISE FROM TOP, FAR RIGHT: FROM THE ARMANI ARCHIVE; DON ASHBY (4); FAIRCHILD ARCHIVE; MICHAEL MAUROU/FAIRCHILD ARCHIVE; FROM THE ARMANI ARCHIVE (3). LABEL: LARS KLOVE. ALL PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE ARMANI ARCHIVE EXCEPT LABEL: TONY CENICOLA. CLOCKWISE FROM TOP: FROM THE ARMANI ARCHIVE (2); DON ASHBY (3); FROM THE ARMANI ARCHIVE; LARS KLOVE.)(PHOTOGRAPHS CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT: FROM THE ARMANI ARCHIVE (3); TONY CENICOLA; FROM THE ARMANI ARCHIVE (2); LARS KLOVE; FROM THE ARMANI ARCHIVE (4); MARIA VALENTINO/MCV PHOTO.)(Portrait by Nadav Kander) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clockwise from above: Giorgio Armani says he is ''just like'' his mother, shown here with little Gio
Armani at home in Brioni
Armani lands the cover of Time magazine in 1982.
Richard Gere, left and above, gave Armani priceless exposure in ''American Gigolo''
the classic Armani suit, right, circa 1980.
From top: an ad for Armani jeans
his home in Pantelleria, Italy
Armani's partner, Sergio Galeotti, left, persuaded him to start his own label in 1975.
Giorgio Armani Fall 81
Giorgio Armani Fall 82
Giorgio Armani Fall 84
Giorgio Armani Fall 85
Giorgio Armani spring 86
 Giorgio Armani Fall 88

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FASHION SHOWS (73%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (72%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); MUSIC (69%); VISUAL ARTISTS (67%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (62%); PHOTOGRAPHY (62%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (62%); FASHION DESIGN (60%) Apparel; Biographical Information

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (94%); BONO (91%) Alice Rawsthorn; Giorgio Armani; giorgio (biographical sketch) armani

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (77%); UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



376 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Fallout Sept. 10 - 16

 BODY:

HEWLETT-PACKARD

The News -- Patricia C. Dunn will step down as chairwoman of the Hewlett-Packard board, one of a series of moves intended to calm turmoil over a leak investigation. 


Behind the News -- The company still faces legal inquiries related to the investigation, in which surreptitious methods were used to obtain phone records of directors and reporters. But the board shake-up seemed to restore order in a company that has long set a standard for corporate behavior in Silicon Valley. Investors seemed satisfied as well: Hewlett-Packard's stock is at a five-year high.

WORLD BANK

The News -- Paul D. Wolfowitz, the head of the World Bank, has come under criticism within and outside the bank for a campaign against corruption in developing countries.

Behind the News -- Mr. Wolfowitz's efforts have led to the suspension of hundreds of millions of dollars of loans. Critics say under his approach lending may be shut off in an arbitrary way, jeopardizing the bank's goal of reducing poverty. But the criticism may also reflect lingering doubts about the selection of Mr. Wolfowitz, a neoconservative who as deputy defense secretary was a primary architect of the Iraq war.

WAR ON TERROR

The News -- Colin L. Powell, President Bush's former secretary of state, sided with some Republican senators in opposing the president's proposals for the trial and interrogation of terrorism suspects.

Behind the News -- Mr. Powell said the president's plan, which provides fewer protections for suspects, would encourage nations to question the ''moral basis of our fight against terrorism.'' It was a rare public disagreement by Mr. Powell. But he had long expressed reservations about White House claims it should not be bound by the Geneva Conventions in the war on terror.

SPORTS

The News -- Frankie Andreu, a former teammate of Lance Armstrong, admitted he had used performance-enhancing drugs.

Behind the News -- The admission by Andreu and another anonymous former teammate that they had used the drug EPO in 1999, the first year Armstrong won the Tour de France, put pressure on the cycling star, who has said he never used banned substances. But both teammates said they did not see Armstrong use drugs, and Armstrong said he had never pushed his teammates to use them and had not known they had done so.

THE ENVIRONMENT

The News -- A new study showed that global warming is responsible for the rising ocean temperatures in tropical regions that spawn destructive storms.

Behind the News -- The report found that the rising water temperatures could only be explained by the buildup of heat-trapping greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. The study did not address the issue of whether recent hurricanes have been stronger because of the warmer waters, but the researchers warned that continued warming might mean stronger storms in the coming decades.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Justin Sullivan/Getty Images)
(Photo by Matthew Cavanaugh/European Pressphoto Agency)
(Photo by Shawn Thew/European Pressphoto Agency)
 (Photo by Patrick Kovarik/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)Drawing (Drawing by Tamara Shopsin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ATHLETES (88%); TERRORISM (87%); WAR ON TERROR (87%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (85%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); WEATHER (76%); CORRUPTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); CLIMATOLOGY (63%); GLOBAL WARMING (63%); CLIMATE CHANGE (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); CYCLING (61%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (57%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



377 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: How the Presidency Regained Its Balance

BYLINE: By John Yoo. 
John Yoo, a deputy assistant attorney general from 2001 to 2003, is a professor at the University of California at Berkeley School of Law and the author of ''War by Other Means.''

DATELINE: Berkeley, Calif. 

 BODY:
FIVE years after 9/11, President Bush has taken his counterterrorism case to the American people. That's because he has had to. This summer, a plurality of the Supreme Court found, in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, that Congress must explicitly approve military commissions to try suspected terrorists. So Mr. Bush has proposed legislation seeking to place the tribunals, and other aggressive antiterrorism measures, on a sounder footing. 
 But the president has broader goals than even fighting terrorism -- he has long intended to make reinvigorating the presidency a priority. Vice President Dick Cheney has rightly deplored the ''erosion of the powers and the ability of the president of the United States to do his job'' and noted that ''we are weaker today as an institution because of the unwise compromises that have been made over the last 30 to 35 years.''
Thus the administration has gone to war to pre-empt foreign threats. It has data-mined communications in the United States to root out terrorism. It has detained terrorists without formal charges, interrogating some harshly. And it has formed military tribunals modeled on those of past wars, as when we tried and executed a group of Nazi saboteurs found in the United States. 
 To his critics, Mr. Bush is a ''King George'' bent on an ''imperial presidency.'' But the inescapable fact is that war shifts power to the branch most responsible for its waging: the executive. Harry Truman sent troops to fight in Korea without Congressional authority. George H. W. Bush did not have the consent of Congress when he invaded Panama to apprehend Manuel Noriega. Nor did Bill Clinton when he initiated NATO's air war over Kosovo. 
 The Bush administration's decisions to terminate the 1972 antiballistic missile treaty and to withdraw from the International Criminal Court and the Kyoto accords on global warming rested on constitutional precedents going all the way back to Abraham Lincoln. 
 The administration has also been energetic on the domestic front. It has re-classified national security information made public in earlier administrations and declined, citing executive privilege, to disclose information to Congress or the courts about its energy policy task force. The White House has declared that the Constitution allows the president to sidestep laws that invade his executive authority. That is why Mr. Bush has issued hundreds of signing statements -- more than any previous president -- reserving his right not to enforce unconstitutional laws. 
 A reinvigorated presidency enrages President Bush's critics, who seem to believe that the Constitution created a system of judicial or congressional supremacy. Perhaps this is to be expected of the generation of legislators that views the presidency through the lens of Vietnam and Watergate. But the founders intended that wrongheaded or obsolete legislation and judicial decisions would be checked by presidential action, just as executive overreaching is to be checked by the courts and Congress. 
 The changes of the 1970's occurred largely because we had no serious national security threats to United States soil, but plenty of paranoia in the wake of Richard Nixon's use of national security agencies to spy on political opponents. Congress enacted the War Powers Resolution, which purports to cut off presidential uses of force abroad after 60 days. It passed the Budget and Impoundment Act to eliminate the modest presidential power to rein in wasteful spending. The Foreign Intelligence and Surveillance Act required the government to get a warrant from a special court to conduct wiretapping for national security reasons. 
 These statutes have produced little but dysfunction, from flouting of the war powers law, to ever-higher pork barrel spending, to the wall between intelligence and law enforcement that contributed to our failure to stop the 9/11 attacks.
 The 1970's shifted power from the president to Congress, and the latter proved a far more accommodating boss to federal agencies looking for budget dollars -- a fragmented legislature is obviously much easier to game than a chief executive. But 535 members of Congress cannot manage day-to-day policy. A legislature's function is to draft the laws of the land, set broad goals and spend taxpayer revenues in the national interest, not to micromanage.
 The judiciary, too, has been increasingly assertive over the last three decades. It has shown far less deference to the executive in this war than in past conflicts. This energetic judiciary is partly a response to Congress's bulked-up power; the courts have had to step in to try to repair the problems created by vague laws that try to do too much, that state grandiose goals, while avoiding hard policy choices.
 Congress's vague legal mandates are handed off to the states or the agencies or the courts to sort out. Our legislators rarely turn their attention to the problems created by laws that are old and obsolete, or of dubious relevance to new issues. (This is why the Hamdan decision was less a rebuke of the presidency than a sign of frustration with Congress's failure to update our laws to deal with the terrorist menace.)
 Unfortunately, much of the public misunderstands the true role of the executive branch -- in large part because today's culture transforms presidents into celebrities. On TV, a president's every move seems central to the universe, so he has the image of power that far exceeds the reality. But as the presidential scholar Richard Neustadt, a liberal icon, argued, the presidency is inherently weak, while mythic things are expected of and attributed to it -- like maintaining national security and economic growth. 
 Today many pundits and political scientists seem to want the president's power to be the sum of his communication and political skills, his organizational ability, his cognitive style and emotional intelligence. It is almost as if any president who uses the constitutional powers allocated to his office to effect policy has failed, not succeeded.
 But the presidency, unlike Congress, is the only office elected by and accountable to the nation as a whole. The president has better access to expertise from the unified executive branch -- including its top secret data -- than the more ad hoc information Congress develops through hearings and investigations.
 That is why, while jealous of its prerogatives, Congress usually goes along with a president's policy decisions. A strong executive can accept responsibility for difficult choices that Congress wants to avoid. The Republican Congress, for instance, wanted to give President Bill Clinton a line-item veto, only to be blocked by the Supreme Court. Despite hearings and criticism of the energetic executive, Congress has yet to pass laws reining in Mr. Bush very much. 
 Congress has for years been avoiding its duty to revamp or repeal outmoded parts of bygone laws in the light of contemporary threats. We have needed energy in the executive branch to fill in that gap. Congress now must act to guide our counterterror policy, but it should not try to micromanage the executive branch, particularly in war, where flexibility of action is paramount.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Nabaum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MILITARY COURTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%) United States Politics and Government; Presidents and Presidency (US); Terrorism; United States Politics and Government

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (78%); BILL CLINTON (58%) John (Prof) Yoo; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); KOSOVO (79%); PANAMA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



378 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Emily Pryor, Cam Winton

 BODY:
Emily Summerville Pryor, the daughter of Laurie E. Pryor and Dr. Jon L. Pryor of Minnetonka, Minn., was married yesterday to Randolph Cameron Winton, a son of Julia B. Winton of Wallingford, Pa., and Randolph B. Winton of Swarthmore, Pa. The Rev. Annika Lister Stroope performed the ceremony at Westminster Presbyterian Church in Minneapolis. 
 Ms. Pryor Winton, 25, is a first-year student at the University of Minnesota Law School in Minneapolis. Until July she was a research analyst at the Advisory Board Company, a health-care consulting business in Washington. She graduated from Wellesley.
Her father is the chairman of the urologic surgery department at the University of Minnesota.
 Mr. Winton, 27, received a law degree from Georgetown in May and is to become an associate this month at Robins, Kaplan, Miller & Ciresi, a Minneapolis law firm. He is the founder of the Victoria Falls Children's Fund, a social services program for children in Zimbabwe. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master's degree in philosophy, policy and social value from the London School of Economics. 
 His mother is the senior director of human resources at the University of Pennsylvania Health System. His father is an investment manager in Swarthmore.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); UROLOGY (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ADVISORY BOARD CO (71%); ROBINS KAPLAN MILLER & CIRESI LLP (69%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA HEALTH SYSTEM (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (83%)

TICKER: ABCO (NASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (69%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (69%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); ZIMBABWE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2006



379 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Teaching Math, Singapore Style

 BODY:
The countries that outperform the United States in math and science education have some things in common. They set national priorities for what public school children should learn and when. They also spend a lot of energy ensuring that every school has a high-quality curriculum that is harnessed to clearly articulated national goals. This country, by contrast, has a wildly uneven system of standards and tests that varies from place to place. We are also notoriously susceptible to educational fads. 
 One of the most infamous fads took root in the late 1980's, when many schools moved away from traditional mathematics instruction, which required drills and problem solving. The new system, sometimes derided as ''fuzzy math,'' allowed children to wander through problems in a random way without ever learning basic multiplication or division. As a result, mastery of high-level math and science was unlikely. The new math curriculum was a mile wide and an inch deep, as the saying goes, touching on dozens of topics each year.
Many people trace this unfortunate development to a 1989 report by an influential group, the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. School districts read its recommendations as a call to reject rote learning. Last week the council reversed itself, laying out new recommendations that will focus on a few basic skills at each grade level.
 Under the new (old) plan, students will once again move through the basics -- addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and so on -- building the skills that are meant to prepare them for algebra by seventh grade. This new approach is being seen as an attempt to emulate countries like Singapore, which ranks at the top internationally in math.
 All these references to Singapore are encouraging, given this country's longstanding resistance to the idea of importing superior teaching strategies from abroad. But a few things need to happen before this approach can succeed. 
 First of all, the United States will need to abandon its destructive practice of having so many math and science courses taught by people who have not majored in the subjects -- or even studied them seriously. 
 We also need to fix the current patchwork system of standards and measurement for academic achievement, and make sure that students everywhere have access to both high-quality teachers and high-quality math and science curriculums that aspire to clearly articulated goals.
 Until we bite the bullet on those basic, critical reforms, we will continue to lose ground to the countries with which we must compete in the global information economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (94%); MATHEMATICS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); NEW ECONOMY (60%) Education and Schools; Editorials; Mathematics ; Science and Technology; Teachers and School Employees

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COUNCIL OF TEACHERS OF MATHEMATICS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



380 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Business Travel; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Paying the Freight for Polluting the Air: Europe Takes the Lead 

BYLINE: By BRADEN PHILLIPS

 BODY:
WHEN HSBC, Europe's biggest bank, flies its executives around the world, it pays for the carbon dioxide emissions of every flight in the form of offsets, or investments in nonpolluting energy projects. The busy London-Hong Kong route, for example, produces 2.76 metric tons of carbon dioxide per passenger, which the company offsets for roughly $4.45 a ton, adding around $25 to the ticket price. (The amount varies with the price per ton of emissions.) Of the bank's total carbon emissions this year, 10 percent will come from business travel, resulting in a fee of $310,000 in offsets. HSBC will pay $3 million more in offsets to achieve carbon neutrality, the first major bank to do so.
 Offsetting has its critics, who say that emissions must be reduced rather than offset, and that some companies have adopted the practice to make a show of their green credentials. Nevertheless, offsetting is becoming increasingly popular.
Over all, business travel can account for less than 5 percent to more than 40 percent of a company's carbon dioxide emissions. A manufacturer with a local operation will travel less, while a global operation in the services sector will travel more. Going green has its price, and so far more European than American companies have been willing to pay it. 
 ''In terms of businesses actually taking the initiative without regulatory requirement or beyond compliance of regulation, the European Union is in the lead,'' said Jonathan Shopley, chief executive of the London-based CarbonNeutral Company, specializing in carbon management strategies for businesses. ''The U.S. is starting to catch up, but the companies that are building the costs of carbon into their bottom line now will be more competitive as the cost of carbon rises because of regulation.'' 
 In Europe, carbon emissions are regulated by the Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading Scheme, a mandatory cap-and-trade system that applies to major emitters. The plan is meant to meet Europe's obligations under the Kyoto Protocol, which the United States did not sign. Compared with the emissions of a power station, those produced by corporate business travel are relatively small, and efforts to offset emissions are voluntary. In the future, however, the European plan will include more sectors of the economy.
 Mr. Shopley thinks that voluntary offsets related to business travel will grow. They reached 5 to 10 million tons of carbon dioxide last year, and he thinks they may reach 50 million tons this year and 100 million the next. But they are a drop in the bucket of world emissions, which will exceed 25 billion tons this year alone. Air travel accounts for 4 to 7 percent of that total, he estimates.
 ''But given that there is a fair amount of travel within the service sector, which represents a significant proportion of the economy, I think CO2 reductions and offsets in business travel can have a material impact,'' Mr. Shopley added.
 CarbonNeutral measures a company's ''carbon footprint,'' buys the right amount of offsets in renewable energy projects and verifies the reliability of those projects. It charges a fee for its services, and revenues have grown to $4.7 million since the company was founded in 1997.
 But businesses stress that buying offsets without reducing the amount of travel will bring little net relief to the problem of climate change. At the same time, travel is often essential, particularly for service companies, many of whom anticipate more travel as they expand globally. 
 ''Business travel is one of the hardest aspects of environmental management,'' said Francis Sullivan, HSBC's environmental adviser. ''We do what we can, like not having more than one person at a meeting, and doing online training to limit traveling, but it's a tough nut to crack,'' he said.
 At the reinsurance company Swiss Re, business travel accounts for about 50,000 tons of carbon emissions a year, or 45 percent of its total.
 ''We've gone from 2.2 tons to 2.8 tons per employee,'' said Andreas Schlaepfer, head of internal environmental management. ''And it's going up, especially in short haul.'' 
 Besides requiring employees to consider telephone and videoconferencing before flying, Swiss Re recently decided to extend the length of short-haul flights that require economy-class tickets by 25 percent, making flying less appealing. 
 Despite a slow start in the early 1990's, videoconferencing holds the greatest potential for reducing business travel. British Sky Broadcasting has invested in videoconferencing suites. At Ikea in Sweden, 1 of 10 meetings are being replaced by a videoconference. And Credit Suisse has increased it by 14 percent. 
 ''The two things people have been waiting for, bandwidth and eye contact, are starting to become available,'' said Paul Dickinson, the coordinator of the Carbon Disclosure Project, a London-based group of institutional investors that gathers data on emissions from the world's 500 largest companies. ''Videoconferencing can lead the way to reduced carbon business communications.''
 With more European companies focusing on cutting emissions from business travel, the travel industry itself has begun to collaborate. In the United States, that trend has been slower to develop. Avis Europe, for example, offers clients the option to make a rental car carbon neutral through its Web site. Avis in the United States, which has different ownership, has no such plans to do so.
 Europe's airlines are the missing piece in the puzzle, and will probably remain so until later this fall, when the European Union Commission will decide on when and how they will be brought into the emissions trading plan. Meanwhile, some companies are beginning to ask airlines to share the costs of carbon neutrality.
 British Airways is the only scheduled airline making an offset option available to travelers on its Web site, but not specifically for corporations. Others can be expected to follow suit. ''Although we don't have deals with corporate clients on carbon offsets, it won't be long before we do, and will likely have significant numbers in a short period of time,'' said Paul Marston, a British Airways spokesman. 
 American airlines have yet to offset carbon emissions, with one exception. In 2002, Nike and Delta Air Lines began an agreement in which both contribute to an offset fund that goes toward local sustainable energy projects. Nike has similar agreements with Hertz and Northwest Airlines. The company offsets 45 percent of its 47,754 tons of carbon emissions from business travel. 
 Apart from isolated cases, American companies have yet to embrace the idea of offsetting carbon emissions from business travel. But that is changing. The Association of Corporate Travel Executives, based in Virginia, has partnered with CarbonNeutral and the Climate Trust, in Oregon, to spread the word.
 For many association members, ''reducing the carbon footprint is a new concept, and there is some resistance to the idea, largely based on the idea that carbon reduction in travel is primarily a marketing trend,'' said Susan Gurley, the group's executive director. But the association's leadership, she added, ''sees it differently.''
 ''We think this is the start of an industrywide philosophical shift, not a passing trend,'' Ms. Gurley said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Selcuk Demirel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); CARBON OFFSETS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



381 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Business Travel; EXPANSION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Living at the Crossroads, Working There, Too

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

DATELINE: YPSILANTI, Mich. 

 BODY:
THE runways, hangars and brick administrative offices are the only things left of Henry Ford's fabled Willow Run Airport, where 8,685 B-24 long-range bombers were built during World War II and 42,000 people were employed, including Rosie the Riveter. 
 The 64-year-old airfield, 30 miles west of Detroit, seems like the aviation equivalent of Jurassic Park, with its remnants of old cargo planes and what was once the largest bomber factory in the world.
But in the post-9/11 universe, where security is as important to traveling executives as speed and access to global markets are, Willow Run Airport has gained new prominence and credibility, as tens of thousands of businesspeople now fly from here on shuttles operated by two of the country's largest companies, Johnson Controls and Pfizer. 
 ''Some of what's happening here is due to the terrorist attacks five years ago,'' said Sean P. Brosnan, Willow Run's director. ''And some of it has to do with where the global economy is heading. This airport already is a major player in shipping cargo around the world. It's becoming a factor in passenger travel, too.'' 
 It's not just Willow Run's growing passenger traffic that is turning heads. So are the large open spaces surrounding the 2,600-acre airport. Wayne County leaders see Willow Run as the western boundary of Airport City, a new regional development strategy to attract high-tech manufacturers, research campuses, housing and jobs in economically troubled southeast Michigan. 
 ''Speed,'' says Mulu Birru, Wayne County's director of economic development and a prime supporter of the project, ''is the economic asset that will make Airport City competitive.''
 Not since the early 1960's, when it still served as metropolitan Detroit's primary airport, has there been quite so much activity at Willow Run. More than 160,000 passengers will fly into and out of the airport this year on charter flights and corporate shuttles, airport executives say. Most are midlevel managers traveling between domestic manufacturing plants and research facilities. 
 Johnson Controls, the Milwaukee manufacturer of auto interiors, dispatches a business jet four times a day from its heavily guarded flight center at the airfield. Pfizer, the world's largest pharmaceutical manufacturer, operates up to six shuttles a day on a chartered Embraer jet that seats 42 passengers. Neither company agreed to an interview for this article, citing security concerns. 
 Willow Run has also applied to be a day port for DayJet, a four-year-old Florida company that is set to begin a national on-demand charter network next year, using a new generation of four- to six-passenger business jets built by the Eclipse Aviation Corporation in Albuquerque. 
 Mr. Brosnan said that the sharp increase in corporate passenger traffic at Willow Run -- up from 2,300 passengers in 2001 -- was a response to the escalating costs, time and stress that many executives say they now experience on scheduled airlines.
 Seven miles east, Detroit Metro Airport is also welcoming more passengers. Last year, Detroit Metro handled 522,000 takeoffs and landings, and a record 36.4 million passengers; a $1.2 billion main terminal has helped make the airport one of the 20-busiest in the world. Detroit Metro accounts for $7.6 billion in economic activity and 71,000 jobs, two-thirds of them in Wayne County, according to an economic impact study published this year by the University of Michigan at Dearborn.
 Willow Run and Detroit Metro, economists say, are rare bright spots in a regional economy hurt by diminishing personal incomes, declining home values and rising joblessness, much of it connected to the shrinking American auto industry. For that reason, civic leaders here, with help from planners at the University of Michigan, are proposing to invigorate the economy by taking advantage of the growing business climate for fast global travel and trade, and the 25,000 acres of undeveloped and underdeveloped land that lies between the two airports.
 Last January, 50 students and a squadron of technical experts from the University of Michigan's Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning holed up at the Marriott here to consider how Airport City could look and function. Three days later, they emerged with maps and computer graphics illustrating the city as a place to live and work, with light, open space and recreation. People and goods, the planners said, will find their way in, around and out of Airport City on clog-free roads and commuter rail, light rail and buses. 
 Airport City, in other words, is meant to look and feel nothing like the congested, highway-dependent, suburbs around both airports today. ''When you want to create something, you don't go with the flow,'' Mr. Birru said. ''You sometimes have to be a little radical in your thinking.''
 There is nothing outlandish about the concept of establishing communities and markets around international airports. John D. Kasarda, director of the Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise at the University of North Carolina, who has been involved in the Wayne County project, has written on airport cities emerging in Memphis, Amsterdam, Bangkok and other metropolitan regions.
 Airport City is a logical step for Detroit, where development followed the transportation innovations -- sail, steam, rail, auto and jet -- of every era stretching back to the city's founding in 1701. 
 A crucial task, Mr. Birru and Mr. Brosnan say, is convincing southeast Michigan to reject its master plans and zoning ordinances. Airport City, which could encompass 39 square miles, 450,000 residents and 350,000 jobs, will require a regional master land use plan, common architectural standards and zoning that mandates the look and location of buildings. 
 Until a few months ago, there weren't many people in Detroit who believed that Airport City would ever be built. But Mr. Birru has methodically advocated for it. 
 Many of the cities and townships encompassed by the plan have approved resolutions of support. Congress authorized $100 million for engineering and some construction of a 50-mile rapid transit line between Detroit and Ann Arbor that could serve both airports. In August, a Michigan development company announced it would build at least 50,000 square feet of offices and warehouses south of Detroit Metro Airport, intended as part of Airport City.
 At Willow Run, an air-cargo shipper recently built a center to train pilots. One runway is being lengthened to more than 9,000 feet to accommodate the biggest jets. And airport executives are considering ways to accommodate the 160,000 more passengers that are expected to fly on DayJet's charters.
 ''If you look at the concept of an Airport City, everything that we're doing here supports that vision,'' Mr. Brosnan said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PRIVATE FLIGHTS -- Willow Run Airport, outside of Detroit, is home to corporate charter jets. Some hope that it and Detroit Metro Airport can anchor an Airport City region. (Photographs by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLE INTERIORS MFG (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (71%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); COUNTIES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EMBRAER SA (61%); PFIZER INC (56%)

TICKER: ERJ (NYSE) (61%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (61%); PFZ (LSE) (56%); PFEB (BRU) (56%); PFE (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (61%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (61%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



382 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Business Travel; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: ALMATY

BYLINE: By ILAN GREENBERG

 BODY:
KAZAKHSTAN'S economy is afloat on oil -- the country is expected to become the fifth-largest energy exporter by early next decade -- and the government is spending lavishly. While prospects for deal making may be tempered by the country's reputation for rampant corruption, a politicized judiciary and little respect for contracts, business travelers are flocking to Almaty, the largest city. 


AIRPORT -- Almaty opened a new airport last year, replacing one that felt like a bus station. Beware that in the former Soviet Union, electronic reservations often mean little; lose your paper ticket and you may have to pay full fare again.

LOCAL FLAVOR -- Before Stalin collectivized the Kazakhs in the 1930's, this nation was a nomadic domain where traditional yurt-and-saddle ways held sway. While Almaty is urbane, old-fashioned hospitality is still a core value. Locals like to overwhelm foreigners with vodka and meat, especially from horses. While visitors are often told it is impolite to decline the gorging, feel free to do so. But if you are given the full honor treatment -- a sheep's head served with marshmallowy eyeballs intact -- saying no is not an option.

LANGUAGE -- Kazakhstan has two official languages, Kazakh, which is spoken fluently by about 30 percent of the population, and Russian, imposed by the large ethnic Russian population. In Russified Almaty, everyone speaks Russian, and it is the language on the street. Saying ''thank you'' to ethnic Kazakhs in their own language is appreciated.
 Thank you in Kazakh (Rachmet; Rah-MET); Russian (Spaseeba; Spah-SEE-bah).

FOOD -- Two cuisines predominate. Russian food is characterized by cabbage soups, pickled vegetables, herring and sausages and grilled meats. In Kazakh cuisine, meat is the main ingredient. Besbarmak (''five fingers'' in Kazakh) is the most popular dish, and gets its name because it's eaten by hand. It is horse meat stewed with pastry in broth to create a watery pasta. Fermented camel's milk is often served with a meal.

BUSINESS DRESS -- Central Asia is a land of funny hats, and the traditional Kazakh costume mandates a funnel for women that looks like a witch's hat. Business attire in Almaty is no different from New York.

SCENERY -- Most buildings are low (Almaty is on an earthquake fault) and a bit ragged, but the Tien Shan mountains and trees make the city feel like a giant park.

WORTH KNOWING -- Toasting is serious business before, during and after a meal. It is not for telling a joke but for expressing gratitude and well wishes.

GETTING THERE -- The national airline, Air Astana, does not fly from the United States. Lufthansa offers a daily direct flight to Almaty from Frankfurt. With a connection from Kennedy Airport; travel time between New York and Almaty can be under 16 hours. ILAN GREENBERG

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Joseph Sywenkyj for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); MAMMALS (88%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); MEATS (78%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (76%); HORSES (73%); HORSE MEAT (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (50%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KAZAKHSTAN (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



383 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Business Travel; AMENITIES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: SOME REST FOR THE WEARY

BYLINE: By AMY GUNDERSON

 BODY:
TRAVELING on business is harder than ever. Planes are loaded, and hair gel is carry-on contraband. But one part of the trip doesn't have to be spent in purgatory. For the weary but well-off business traveler, the best hotels can be a sanctuary -- oases of good service and high thread-count linens, at a price, of course. Here is how some hotels are providing those services, with the aim of making travel less stressful -- even relaxing.

ASK YOUR BUTLER
ST. REGIS HOTEL, NEW YORK -- Lights, television, A-C. With its room renovation finished earlier this summer, each of the 229 rooms at this St. Regis now has one central keypad. ''I can sit at the end of the bed and control everything,'' said Scott Geraghty, the general manager. The keypad controls the lights and the air-conditioning, and even has a one-touch system that can dial directly into reservations numbers of major airlines.
 All rooms have wireless Internet access, speakers for iPods, a fax/printer/copier and two liquid-crystal-display flat-panel televisions, including one in the bathroom. 
 Of course, if you do have technology problems, in your room or anywhere else in the hotel, you can ask your butler for help. Each guest is assigned such a person who can, among other things, unpack your bag, have a suit pressed, get you a restaurant reservation and track down the missing cord for your laptop. (The butler service does not charge a fee.) 
 Earlier this year, the hotel equipped all of its butlers with BlackBerries, so you can send them e-mails for requests up to two days before your arrival. Rooms start at $895 a night.

ROCKING ROUND THE CLOCK
INTERCONTINENTAL BUCKHEAD, ATLANTA -- When this 422-room hotel opened two years ago, it was decided that the word ''closed'' would be a rarely heard phrase. With a large number of international guests (hotel staff members are fluent in about 35 languages) in addition to its American business travelers, many people are clamoring for a sandwich at odd hours or heading to the business center at 3 a.m. Not a problem.
 Most hotels say that their business centers are open around the clock and accessible with a room key, but the InterContinental staffs its business center at all hours. It has five computer work stations and wireless Internet in all the public areas, from the swimming pool to the garage. 
 And after-hours dining doesn't mean waiting for room service. Having a 24-hour restaurant would usually be economically exorbitant, but the kitchen for room service is the same as the restaurant kitchen. ''We built it together, and that allows us to keep the kitchen open all night,'' said Ronen Nissenbaum, the general manager of the InterContinental Buckhead. Rooms start at $439.

SKIP THE SLOG-JAM
HILTON LONDON CANARY WHARF -- The trek from Heathrow Airport can be a bear by car, and the Heathrow Express, a rail link to central London, still means a transfer to a taxi and a slog through traffic. Since it opened in July, the Hilton Canary Wharf has been offering guests another choice besides trains and taxis: helicopter. Guests can travel by helicopter to the adjacent Isle of Dogs and catch a short ride to the hotel. ''Depending on the time of day, it can save 35 to 45 minutes,'' said Oliver Stockland, the hotel's general manager. The Hilton can also arrange helicopter service from Gatwick Airport.
 Once at the hotel, travelers who are staying on the executive club floors can check in at the executive lounge and bypass the lobby. Three floors have designated executive rooms, and guests there also have access to a lounge that offers breakfast, a light lunch and afternoon tea. The lounge, which overlooks the Thames River, has both wireless and wired Internet access, while the business center has work stations and is staffed until 11 p.m. There is also wireless Internet in conference rooms and the lobby. Rooms start at $298.

E-Z CHECK IN
FOUR SEASONS HOTEL, HONG KONG -- After a 16-hour flight from New York, the last thing you need is a customs snafu. The Four Seasons Hotel Hong Kong tries to ensure that guests get to the hotel and into their rooms as fast as possible.
 Those who arrange to take a limousine to the hotel are met at the gate by a hotel representative, whisked through customs and immigration (''Our people have very good connections -- let's leave it at that,'' said the hotel's general manager, William Mackay) and helped with their baggage.
 Checking in is done in the car ride, so travelers can head immediately to their rooms. And there is no reason to bring converters. A full range of converters appropriate for their computers and cellphones will be in the rooms. 
 All 399 have wireless Internet; for a fee, guests have access to the 45th-floor Executive Club Lounge that overlooks Victoria Harbor. The lounge offers breakfast, drinks at all hours and check-in and check-out services. The fee includes an hour of time in the meeting room. Rooms start at $488.

THE BAGGAGE STAYS PUT
THE RITZ-CARLTON, SAN FRANCISCO -- With the new airplane travel restrictions instituted in August, the Ritz-Carlton chain brought back its luggage-less travel service that it had introduced shortly after 9/11 and later quietly dropped at many of its properties.
 Guests who stay at least four times a month can leave their bags at the hotel. Clothes are cleaned, toiletries are replenished and when guests return, they are already unpacked, allowing them to bypass the front desk. 
 ''The valet has your key, and your luggage is already there,'' said Angela Jackson, a spokeswoman for the Ritz-Carlton, San Francisco. Guests are charged for laundry and the new toiletries. 
 In April, the hotel completed a major renovation. Besides upgrading guest rooms, it created a business lounge on the club floor, with a 32-inch flat-panel television and two computer terminals, giving guests an alternative to working in the business center or their rooms. 
 The hotel also changed how it doles out caffeine. It put coffeemakers in the room for the first time, recognizing that some guests don't want to wait for room service, and extended its free morning coffee in the lobby an extra two and a half hours. Rooms start at $435.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Chris Gash)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (75%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (75%); AIRLINES (73%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (72%); PHOTOCOPIERS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



384 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Business Travel; PERSONAL TOUCH: ESSAY; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Why Fly When You Can Web Conference?

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
REMEMBER the good old days, when all you had to do to get on an airplane was empty the metal out of your pockets, take off your shoes and maybe submit to a pat-down?
 Since Aug. 10, travelers have also faced checkpoint screeners who search for cosmetics and toothpaste, and then, often, a second rank of screeners at the boarding gates. Sometimes these are not even the Transportation Security Administration officers in their try-to-look-professional crisp white shirts, but members of the National Guard in camouflage outfits and heavy boots, who look better equipped for hurricane rescues.
As travel has gotten harder, however, Web conferencing has gotten easier. All it takes is a broadband connection -- now present in nearly every office and even about 40 percent of American homes -- along with an $800 laptop and, perhaps, a $30 Webcam. A subscription for unlimited conferencing is another $40 a month. And you don't have to take your toothpaste out of the bathroom. 
 So why does anybody go anywhere any more? 
 Because customers and clients expect it; because competitors still travel; because the march of technology has not managed to produce an equal to pressing the flesh. In fact, Web conferencing is a completely different way of being there.
 ''We've seen a couple of times throughout the last 10 years the idea that with videoconferencing, Web conferencing, nobody's going to need to travel any more, but it really hasn't panned out that way,'' said Caleb Tiller, a spokesman for the National Business Travel Association, a trade group. ''Right now we're seeing corporate budgets for travel as high as in 2000, planes more full than ever in history and hotels more full.''
 Or, as Vivian Smith, director of business development at Tower Travel Management, put it, there are still ''heads in beds and butts in seats.'' 
 A quick index of success for the travel business (but not specifically business travelers) is that at many airports, you need a reservation not only for a seat on the plane, but also for a place to park the car.
 Web conferencing is driven partly by the difficulties of travel; at WebEx, a firm in Santa Clara, Calif., that provides ''Web meeting applications,'' Colin B. Smith, a spokesman, said that the company saw ripples when there was news like the arrests in London of Muslim extremists accused of trying to bomb planes. ''But it's a ripple in a tidal wave,'' he said. 
 WebEx's product, like that of its competitors, can allow participants to see each other's talking heads over Webcams. It can also allow colleagues in different cities to manipulate the same spreadsheet, annotate the same PDF, edit the same document or rearrange the same PowerPoint document. It is somewhat like one worker hanging over the shoulder of another while the other sits at a computer. But in this case, the number of participants is almost unlimited. 
 Better than a real meeting, a Web meeting can include features like instant messaging, in which one person can send a message to all the others or to one of the others. It can be recorded, archived and replayed.
 WebEx offers various possibilities to show how its product can be used. Sales calls or other consultations with potential customers are one option, but others involve consultations within a company, especially a global company. 
 Like Company A's sending a representative to visit Company B, and A's representative's needing to communicate back to A's headquarters, for assistance, via laptop and cellphone. Another use could involve a design team, a manager and executives at a manufacturing plant -- each in a different location -- going over specifications and other information that live in a computer.
 The airlines are worried about the hassles involved in travel, but not really about the Web as competition. James May, the president of the Air Travel Association, the trade group of the big airlines, said that basic needs had not changed since his grandfather used cars and trains to sell thread, buttons and sewing equipment.
 ''The personal touch, the face-to-face interactions, that will always come into play,'' he said. ''Based on absolutely no empirical data whatsoever, there's nothing that can ever replace a face-to-face meeting.'' He added, ''If you and I are talking and I can look at your face and read you, that's a very important piece of the human interaction.''
 His association's members tend to talk to one another at least three times a day by conference call, he said, but the group prefers personal meetings. His members often fly free on each other's airlines, but they still encounter the same travel difficulties, he said.
 In fact, there is a countertheory that air travel, Web communications and phone calls drive one another. 
 ''As technology has advanced, it increases the need for face-to-face travel,'' said Kevin Mitchell, chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, a group that advocates lower fares and better conditions for passengers. ''In 1990, you and I might have managed 100 relationships, and that was a lot,'' he said. ''Now with e-mail and instant messaging, you and I may manage 1,000.'' 
 Still, not every meeting has to be face to face, even though the demands of a global economy require more meetings, the experts say. People who collaborate often, and people within the same company, may consult over the Web in between face-to-face gatherings, sometimes holding Web conferences far more often that they would ever have traveled to each others' locations. 
 ''We all know each other, we've all met each other, we don't have to do it face to face,'' said Mr. Tiller, describing corporate strategy. ''Save that money for much more important, lucrative trips; have that sales guy make two more trips.''
 This reliance on face-to-face meetings continues even though the Internet is the thing you can't leave home without. Why else do all those hotels advertise free high-speed connections?
 So despite shocks like the London arrests, demand for business air travel is still strong. Globally, according to the International Air Transport Association, an airline trade group, passenger traffic for the first half of this year -- until the British government said it had uncovered a plot to bomb planes -- was up 6.7 percent from the year before. About 40 percent of global aviation is in the United States. 
 Not that getting there is still half the fun; that fraction is overstated. 
 ''Most business travelers would say, it's not a fun thing anymore,'' said Mr. Mitchell of the Business Travel Coalition. For him, the fun period was before Sept. 11, 2001, when terrorists turned four airplanes into kamikaze bombs, resulting in the creation of the Transportation Security Administration. But reaction to 9/11 was not the end, Mr. Mitchell said. ''It's worse and it's probably getting worse, in view of most business travelers,'' he said. 
 It's worse for personal travel, too. Ms. Smith, of Tower Travel Management, a company that manages travel for corporations, flies without hesitation for business. But when she must go from her base in Chicago to visit relatives near Kansas City, she said that lately she chose the seven-hour drive over the 90-minute flight. On holiday weekends, when she likes to go, the airports in Chicago are ''crazy,'' she said, partly because of security requirements. And the economics have changed. ''It's harder to get a really cheap fare,'' she added.
 And Web conferencing with Mom is unlikely to do the trick.
 Coping strategies exist. Michael Brein, a travel-book writer who bills himself as the world's firsttravel psychologist, recommends living in a personal cocoon. 
 ''Create your own comfortable, cozy inward personal space,'' he wrote in an essay on his Web site. ''Attain the mental state that you in your own cocoon are traveling through the airport space and simply dealing with all that goes on around you, all that needs to be done. Withdraw into the self.''
 But there are those pesky recorded announcements warning that unattended luggage will be destroyed, hardly an inducement to avoid looking around. ''Put on your noise-canceling headphones,'' Dr. Brein advised.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jason Schneider)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECONFERENCING (91%); AIRPORT BODY SCANS & PAT DOWNS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERNET VIDEO (89%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (77%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); COSMETICS (72%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (69%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (63%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); BROADBAND (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TOWER TRAVEL MANAGEMENT CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



385 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Arrest in Pipe Attack on Officer Marks Undoing of Brilliant Mind

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
If there truly is a fine line between genius and madness, Gavin Dutchin crossed it often and with little warning. For the very mind that drove Mr. Dutchin's successes, making him his immigrant family's brightest hope and winning him degrees from elite schools, seemed to betray him unexpectedly, time and again.
 Mr. Dutchin, 38, is being treated in the mental health unit at the Rikers Island jail after being accused of smashing an off-duty New York City detective in the head with a lead pipe in the East Village on Sept. 9. The attack left the detective, Sgt. Kenny Roe, 40, with cerebral hemorrhaging and a gash that needed 14 stitches before he left the hospital. It was unprovoked, the police said.
At first glance, Mr. Dutchin's actions, as described by the police, seem baffling. A graduate of the prestigious Brooklyn Technical High School, Mr. Dutchin had two bachelor's degrees, in math and physics, from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a once-promising Wall Street career. In January, he earned a master's in economics from New York University. 
 But demons had long plagued Mr. Dutchin, who moved with his parents at 14 from Guyana to Jamaica, Queens.
 As a boy, Mr. Dutchin seemed decades older. His sister Loraine Dutchin said he was like a solemn, pensive man trapped in the body of a child. He had no friends, preferring the companionship of calculus and physics books. His parents shushed their five other children so that Mr. Dutchin, their youngest and brightest, could study. The boy stuffed a towel under his bedroom door, Loraine Dutchin said, to seal out any noise. Long after his parents and siblings went to bed, the teenage Mr. Dutchin stayed up, poring over textbooks as the clock ticked past midnight.
 ''He would tap his head and say, 'What you have up here, no one can take away,' '' said Ms. Dutchin, 49, who lives in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. ''He was brilliant; everything he touched turned to gold. But his whole life was studying. He was so bottled up.''
 Mr. Dutchin's academic prowess earned him entry into top-notch schools, and he landed a scholarship to M.I.T., Loraine Dutchin said. His parents, Carlyle, a nighttime security guard, and Carmen, a housecleaner, sent him whatever extra money they cobbled together so he could pay his phone bills and buy crisp new clothes.
 A framed picture of Mr. Dutchin's graduation from M.I.T., displayed in Ms. Dutchin's living room, shows Mr. Dutchin beaming with pride, gripping the dean's hand in a firm shake.
 In November 1992, he was hired as an assistant broker at Cowen & Company, an investment banking firm in Manhattan. But two years later, for reasons he kept secret from his family, Mr. Dutchin lost his job.
 And then his life began to unspool.
 In 1996, Carlyle Dutchin, 73, died of prostate cancer. Mr. Dutchin's mother stayed in Guyana after accompanying her husband's body there for the funeral. Mr. Dutchin had been living with his parents. Suddenly alone, he became mired in lassitude and despair.
 Ms. Dutchin took her brother in, but his relationship with her family was strained at best. Though he was a quiet man, she said, he often was overcome by a sudden bursts of anger. He became enraged when her two young children watched television instead of studying, she said. 
 One night, in the summer of 1998, a spat over the children escalated into a violent fight, Ms. Dutchin said, and he shoved her to the ground, repeatedly kicking Ms. Dutchin. Her daughter, Arielle, who was 6 at the time, called 911, sobbing hysterically. '''My uncle's going to kill my mother,' '' Ms. Dutchin recalls her daughter saying.
 The police arrived but Ms. Dutchin would not press charges. Still, she refused to let Mr. Dutchin stay in her home. For two years, Mr. Dutchin drifted through Manhattan, homeless, sleeping in doorways and shelters and spending his days immersed in books at Barnes & Noble. Ms. Dutchin said he sometimes stood in the park across the street from her home, staring mournfully, but then would disappear.
 Mr. Dutchin began running afoul of the law. He was charged with turnstile jumping in February 1999, and with resisting arrest that summer, though details of that episode are not clear. He was taken to Bellevue Hospital Center, where he was treated for tuberculosis and spent three months in a psychiatric ward. He began taking antipsychotic medicine. When Ms. Dutchin went to visit him, she said that her brother's face crumpled, and that he whispered, ''I'm sorry, I'm sorry,'' as the two embraced.
 After Mr. Dutchin's release, he was enrolled in a psychiatric treatment program run by FEGS, the former Federal Employment and Guidance Service. Community Access, a housing and advocacy agency for the mentally ill, placed him in an apartment at 12th Street and Avenue A.
 Stable once more, Mr. Dutchin let his intelligence shine through, and he tutored high school and college students, all the while dreaming of returning to graduate school. In 2001, The New York Times profiled him as part of its Neediest Cases series.
 Mr. Dutchin's prospects seem to brighten. He was a quiet presence in his apartment building, neighbors said, always well-dressed and polite. Almost every Sunday, he rode the No. 2 subway to Ms. Dutchin's home in Brooklyn, where she served him his favorite home-cooked meal, baked snapper with okra and callaloo. Yet Ms. Dutchin said she still saw anger simmering beneath the surface. ''I could tell something was wrong,'' she said. ''His eyes were wild.''
 Mr. Dutchin stopped visiting Ms. Dutchin about a year ago, and he began visiting another sister, Olive Dutchin, from whom Loraine Dutchin says she is estranged. Yet he seemed to stay out of trouble, and enrolled at N.Y.U. 
 It is not clear how Mr. Dutchin, who could not be reached for this article, paid the tuition. (His lawyer, David Affler, refused to let him be interviewed.) But in January 2006, he earned his long-dreamed-of master's degree.
 And then, it seemed, Mr. Dutchin began to drift again. This summer, the police searched for him after he vanished from his East Village apartment, though he reappeared after several days. Two weeks ago, he saw his mother, who was visiting from Guyana. Carmen Dutchin said she was horrified by how thin her son appeared. ''He studied too hard,'' she said.
 Less than a week later, just before 11 a.m. on Sept. 9, a gloriously sunny day, Sergeant Roe, 41, the off-duty detective, set off down East 14th Street with his cousin toward a diner. They had just passed Third Avenue when Sergeant Roe felt a bright, shattering crack, as loud as thunder, across the back of his head.
 Sergeant Roe and his cousin grappled with the assailant for the pipe. They wrested it from him, and police officers arrived and arrested Mr. Dutchin. And Sergeant Roe, alert but dizzy and bleeding, leaned against a wall and sank slowly to the ground.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about Gavin Dutchin, a mentally ill man charged with attacking a New York police detective with a lead pipe, misstated the former name of the agency that ran a psychiatric treatment program in which Mr. Dutchin had been enrolled. The agency is FEGS, formerly known as the Federation -- not Federal -- Employment and Guidance Service.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gavin Dutchin (pg. B1)
 Loraine Dutchin said she took her brother Gavin into her Brooklyn home until he attacked her in 1998. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); TEXTBOOKS (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (76%); CALCULUS (72%); LEAD (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%) Assaults; Attacks on Police; Mental Health and Disorders 

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (60%)

PERSON: Cara Buckley; Gavin Dutchin; Kenny (Detective) Roe

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



386 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: After a Half-Century of Decline, Signs of Better Times for Buffalo

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

DATELINE: BUFFALO 

 BODY:
For years Buffalo's psyche has borne the scars of a once-mighty city reduced to a shadow of its former self. 
 First the Erie Canal, which helped propel Buffalo to greatness in the 19th century, was made obsolete by railroads and highways. Then the heavy industry that had sprung up with the canal traffic collapsed: dozens of factories in the region, mainly steel and grain operations, closed in the mid-1970's alone. The economic decline was so severe that half the people left -- the population sliding from 580,000 in the mid-20th century to about 290,000 today.
Perhaps the biggest disappointment in recent years has been the waterfront. Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Baltimore and other faded industrial cities have pumped millions into redeveloping land along the piers that had made them thriving hubs during a bygone era. Buffalo has lagged, and its expansive Lake Erie shoreline feels abandoned.
 But now, there is a sense that just maybe Buffalo's losing streak is coming to an end. There is tangible movement on long-awaited plans to reclaim the waterfront, along with dozens of private and public real-estate projects downtown under construction or in the works. 
 Restoration work on the historic inner harbor, the point where the Erie Canal met the Great Lakes, is well under way. In the downtown area a few blocks away, two developers -- one from Long Island, another from England -- have each bought historic buildings that were empty or underused, with plans for major mixed-use projects. And a new office building, with almost a half million square feet, is going up, the largest to rise downtown in at least 20 years.
 That office building is just one of more than a dozen that helped make the Buffalo region one of the top areas for office construction in the final quarter of last year.
 ''I'm not going to say that this whole thing is going to take off in 18 months and that we're going to look like Toronto,'' said Charles F. Rosenow, president of the Erie Canal Harbor Development Corporation, a new state agency charged with developing the city's inner harbor. ''But the pieces are beginning to fall in place, and we're working diligently.''
 Not everyone is so optimistic. Even Mr. Rosenow jokes that you could fill a library with the dozens of waterfront plans that have gone nowhere for lack of money. Skeptics particularly recall the promise of another grand waterfront project -- an office and retail complex to be anchored by Adelphia Communications. That deal collapsed when Adelphia officials were indicted on conspiracy and fraud charges in 2002. 
 ''For a community that thinks they've been waiting for a half-century for something to happen, it's not fast enough,'' said Thomas A. Kucharski, the president and chief executive of Buffalo Niagara Enterprise, a nonprofit economic development organization.
 Still, many people think this time might be the real thing. Buffalo has a new mayor, Byron W. Brown, who has aggressively pitched the city's potential from California to Massachusetts. There is financial support from the state and federal governments, spurring highway projects and cleanups of polluted former industrial sites. 
 And there is more diverse private investment from developers attracted to the city's inexpensive real estate and the panoply of architectural riches and elegant parks built in the city's heyday.
 At the foot of Main Street, for instance, cobblestone streets and the original commercial slip at the terminus of the Erie Canal are being restored. A new building for an existing naval history museum is under construction, and a new promenade meanders along the shoreline where three Navy ships are anchored. Also planned is a market modeled after Faneuil Hall in Boston, and a museum devoted to the Erie Canal and the Great Lakes.
 An important development was the creation of the Erie Canal Harbor Development Corporation, a subsidiary of the state's economic development agency. The new corporation has the power to issue bonds and should keep momentum going to develop the harbor. 
 The corporation made a splash this spring with the hiring of Ehrenkrantz Eckstut & Kuhn Architects of Manhattan, which worked on both the Baltimore Inner Harbor project and Battery Park City, projects that Buffalo is eager to emulate.
 Perhaps the biggest boost came in June, with the approval of a settlement brokered by United States Representative Brian Higgins between the New York State Power Authority and the Erie Canal Harbor Development Corporation. As part of its relicensing application, the Power Authority, which has a hydroelectric plant near Niagara Falls, agreed to pay $279 million over 50 years to address concerns about the environmental impact of its operations. 
 The settlement money, which has already started flowing, is dedicated to the waterfront improvements. Officials plan to get a large chunk of the money up front by selling bonds.
 In recent years, across Buffalo's miles of waterfront, the city and the state have created parks and installed bike and walking trails. Construction is set to begin in early October on a 100-foot-wide greenbelt around the entire outer harbor site.
 One of the more distinctive plans for the waterfront involves a new Frank Lloyd Wright building. In 2000, a local group bought the rights to a 1905 design for a boathouse that was never built. 
 In a city with six other Wright buildings, the boathouse, which will serve the West Side Rowing Club, could become a tourist attraction, city officials say. The group has raised almost $5 million; construction began this month. 
 ''It's finally moving along,'' said Gretchan F. Grobe, a Buffalo native and the senior visitor services representative for the Albright-Knox Art Gallery, a city museum featuring works by Impressionist and contemporary masters. ''People are very excited. Developing the waterfront will bring people back to the city.''
 Not all is going well along the waterfront, however. The state has yet to complete a deal that would bring Bass Pro Shops, an outdoor sporting goods chain known for its flashy interiors, complete with waterfalls and shooting ranges, to the long-vacant War Memorial Auditorium. Officials are counting on Bass Pro -- whose 300,000-square-foot flagship store in Springfield, Mo., draws four million visitors a year -- to anchor the inner harbor. 
 Despite an announcement two years ago that Bass Pro had signed a memorandum of understanding, the company has yet to sign a contract. Still, both sides say the negotiations are continuing. 
 Plans for the outer harbor, a forlorn rectangle of landfill jutting into Lake Erie (and once a bustling transit point for bulk cargo), are also not firm. A prime 120-acre portion of the outer harbor land is owned by the Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority, a state agency that operates the city's buses, subways and airports. The agency is negotiating with a private developer on a mixed-use project, but talks have bogged down over environmental issues. 
 To signal his commitment to the waterfront, Mayor Brown toured the inner harbor on his first day in office in January. ''It's important to the public's confidence that we can demonstrate that we can get something done on the water,'' he said in a recent interview. 
 David A. Stebbins, the waterfront projects coordinator for the Buffalo Urban Development Corporation, said that opening up the waterfront was critical for stemming the population decline. 
 ''It's about tourism, but it's also about quality of life,'' he said. ''There are a dozen colleges and universities in the area, with 100,000 college students. But they don't stay. If you were to keep all that brainpower, then you'd have an economy.'' 
 As Buffalo awaits more investment in its waterfront, a number of developers are remaking downtown. In the past two years, vacant and underused buildings have been renovated for residential use, adding about 1,000 apartments. 
 On the commercial side, Duke Realty Corporation of Indianapolis is putting up a $100 million headquarters for BlueCross BlueShield of Western New York. The 469,000-square-foot structure is on a former brownfield site.
 Also downtown, a Long Island developer just bought the old A.M. & A. department store, which has sat vacant for years. Plans call for a mix of retail space, offices and apartments.
 Perhaps the biggest surprise is the sudden interest of a young British developer, Bashar Issa, 28, who has worked in Manchester, England, as well as in Dubai and China. 
 He recently bought the Statler Building, a once-elegant 1,100-room hotel that is now a half-empty office tower. Mr. Issa says he plans to pour $80 million into the building to create condominiums, apartments, stores, office space and hotel rooms. 
 ''We were trying to penetrate the United States market, and we spoke to a lot of brokers around the country,'' he said in a phone interview. ''I'm so shocked and surprised that Buffalo has been left behind to a certain extent. It's the second-largest city in New York State. I really feel I have a second home now.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Work at the Erie Canal commercial slip in Buffalo is part of a project to redevelop the waterfront, a long-sought but elusive goal for the city. (Photo by Mike Groll for The New York Times)(pg. B7)Map of Buffalo, New York, highlighting the following:Site of the BlueCross BlueShield buildingProposed site of Bass Pro ShopsErie Canal Harbor project(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (88%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (75%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (74%); HARBORS & PORTS (74%); LAKES (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); CONSPIRACY (65%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (61%); LITIGATION (61%); INDICTMENTS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (60%) Area Planning and Renewal; Historic Buildings and Sites; Suits and Litigation; Finances

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Erie Canal Harbor Development Corp; New York State Power Authority

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%)

PERSON: Lisa W Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (95%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (79%); GREAT LAKES (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); LAKE ERIE (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ENGLAND (54%) Buffalo (NY); Buffalo (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



387 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: A Show That Trumpeted History but Led to Confusion

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT; Laura M. Holson contributed reporting from Los Angeles.

 BODY:
It's little wonder that ABC's mini-series ''The Path to 9/11'' drew stinging criticism earlier this month for its invented scenes, fabricated dialogue and unsubstantiated accounts of how the Clinton and Bush administrations conducted themselves in the years encompassing the World Trade Center attacks of 1993 and 2001.
 A more puzzling question is why ABC spent $30 million on what, since it lacked commercials, amounted to a five-hour public service announcement.
While the two-night docudrama was shown without a sponsor, ABC did not always intend it to be so. As recently as July, ABC was discussing the possibility of running the program with limited commercials from one or two major sponsors. 
 The network also saw a potential market in schools. It hired Scholastic Inc., the educational publisher, to create a study guide for high school teachers to go along with the mini-series, a move that implied the network saw a future in DVD sales of the mini-series to schools.
 In the end, however, Scholastic scrapped its original study guide and no sponsors stepped up to help ABC defray the cost of the program. While the network did sell foreign rights to the show in a few markets, including Britain, Australia and New Zealand, it was left to shoulder nearly all of the cost by itself. 
 Once it became clear that it would have to go without sponsors, ABC began to promote the mini-series as a public service. That decision left the network open to a weighty question: Is it truly a public service if it alienates a significant part of the audience? 
 The mini-series drew respectable ratings, coming in second to a football game on NBC on its first night and winning the night on Sept. 11, its second night. But despite drawing an estimated 12 million to 13 million viewers each night, ABC was unable to capitalize on its large audience. 
 Typically, big productions like ''The Path to 9/11'' serve as vehicles for networks to promote their new fall lineup. But by excluding not only commercials but also promotional spots during the broadcast, ABC essentially gave away five hours of network time. 
 ABC has repeatedly declined to make its top executives available for interviews in the last two weeks. Asked specifically last week about the business decisions that went into the mini-series, ABC offered a statement on Friday. 
 ''Throughout the history of the broadcast business, programming decisions have been made based not only on their commercial nature, but also on their relevance and potential public interest,'' the statement said. ''In greenlighting 'The Path to 9/11,' our commercial expectations very much took into account the nature of the movie. We proceeded with the project because of our belief in the importance of the subject.''
 In couching its mini-series as a public service, however, ABC took on a burden that a drama, by its nature, is ill equipped to shoulder, according to one critic. 
 ''Saying it is a public service is the same as claiming ideological ownership,'' said Robert J. Thompson, director of the Center for the Study of Popular Television at Syracuse University. ''If it is being packaged as a way to expose people to the contents of the 9/11 Commission report, and you're encouraging it to be used in schools, then you do have to present it as factual. It doesn't do a good job of that.''
 After former Clinton administration officials began to complain that the invented scenes and made-up dialogue presented an inaccurate picture and showed them as being less than vigilant in their pursuit of Osama bin Laden, the network added a disclaimer, saying that ''for dramatic and narrative purposes, the movie contains fictionalized scenes, composite and representative characters and dialogue, as well as time compression.''
 The decision to run the mini-series without commercials and an effort to edit out some of the disputed scenes appear to have been prompted by complaints to Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, which owns ABC.
 Since taking over as chief executive almost a year ago, Mr. Iger has cast himself as a hands-off manager who will let his executive team members run their business. And ''Path to 9/11'' was well on its way by the time he took over, having been initiated by Stephen McPherson, the president of ABC Entertainment, and gained the approval of Anne Sweeney, the president of the Disney-ABC Television Group. 
 But shortly before Labor Day weekend, Mr. Iger received an angry letter about the accuracy of the program from representatives of Bill Clinton. Mr. Iger stepped into the controversy, reviewing the mini-series and ordering changes in advertisements that had marketed the show as ''based on'' the 9/11 Commission's factual report, according to people close to the executive. 
 The new ads, which began running after Labor Day, portrayed the mini-series as a docudrama based on several sources. ABC also began reviewing the editing of the film, a process that led it to delete some controversial scenes.
 Previously the network portrayed the film as in its finished version, so much so that Thomas H. Kean, a former governor of New Jersey and the chairman of the 9/11 commission, told television critics in July that he was ''very happy'' with it. The network mailed copies to television critics in mid-August. It screened the first half of the film for audiences in Washington and elsewhere, and distributed thousands of copies to journalists, editorial writers, radio and television commentators and others. 
 But once the criticism started and ABC executives decided that some changes would have to be made, the network changed course. After Labor Day and Mr. Iger's intervention, it said that ''no one has seen the final version of the film, because the editing process is not yet complete,'' and therefore any complaints about the film's content were ''premature and irresponsible.''
 Also after Labor Day, Scholastic decided that it did not want to present a factual study guide to accompany a partly fictionalized drama. It withdrew the study guide, already prepared, ''because it didn't focus enough on the difference between documentary and docudrama,'' said Kyle Good, a spokeswoman for Scholastic. She said that the company canceled its contract with ABC and that no money changed hands. 
 With millions spent on production, including two months of filming in Morocco and the building of more than 300 sets, ABC had little choice but to go forward with the broadcast. 
 In doing so, it likened ''Path to 9/11'' to other dramas that ran with little or no commercial support -- ''An Early Frost,'' an NBC broadcast in 1985 about AIDS, and ''The Day After,'' an ABC drama in 1983 about the aftermath of a nuclear attack on the United States.
 But the economic scale of those efforts was far smaller. An NBC executive estimated at the time that ''An Early Frost'' lost $500,000 in commercial revenue as advertisers stayed away -- barely a fraction of the cost of ''Path to 9/11.'' 
 One person close to the project at ABC who spoke only on the condition of anonymity said the network believed that its 9/11 presentation fulfilled its purpose, and that compromises were necessary to squeeze more than eight years of history into five hours of television.
 Mr. Thompson asserted that however that form of entertainment was categorized, it did little teaching about history. '' 'Richard III' is one of the greatest plays ever written,'' he said, ''but it is not very good history.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Actors portraying White House officials in ''The Path to 9/11.'' (Photo by Peter Stranks/ABC)(pg. C1)
''The Path to 9/11'' involved two months of filming in Morocco and the construction of more than 300 sets. (Photo by Peter Stranks/ABC)
Stephen McPherson, the president of ABC Entertainment. (Photo by Craig Sjodin/ABC)
David Cunningham, the director of ''The Path to 9/11.'' (Photo by Craig Sjodin/ABC)
 Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of Walt Disney, ABC's owner. (Photo by Fred Prouser/Reuters)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPONSORSHIP (90%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (88%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (77%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (68%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (67%); INTERVIEWS (65%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (61%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (55%); PUBLISHING (53%) Terrorism; Television; Advertising and Marketing; Education and Schools; United States Politics and Government; Airlines and Airplanes; Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC)

COMPANY: SCHOLASTIC INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Abc Inc; Scholastic Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (58%) Edward Wyatt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (87%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MOROCCO (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%) New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



388 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Emerging States Seek Clout At World Bank and I.M.F.

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Even before the conclusion of the annual gathering of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, a striking swing in the global order has been obvious.
 China and other fast-growing developing countries are demanding a bigger say in the aging institutions that superintend the world economy.
 The demands of China and other countries are stirring concerns in the West that agencies like the monetary fund, set up in the 1940's to stabilize the global economy, are in danger of fragmenting -- a sobering thought for those worried that the breakdown of global trade talks last summer imperils the future of global economic cooperation. 
 The richest countries of the world are scrambling to make sure that this fragmentation does not happen. Accordingly, an American-backed plan that would give a bit larger role at the fund to China, South Korea, Mexico and Turkey appears headed for passage on Monday.
 The plan is what the United States calls a down payment that will pave the way for more power to be given to other developing countries at the monetary fund, which is responsible for monitoring the global economy and rescuing countries from default. But that process is likely to produce much wrangling over the next year or two.
 Judging from the comments of such countries as India, Brazil, Argentina and Egypt, which have said they oppose the down-payment idea, there is a clear residue of distrust from the poor or developing countries that feel left out of the process being discussed here at these annual meetings. That criticism underscores the general anxiety about the future of the global economy and the systems set up to secure it.
 Despite a healthy world growth rate of 5 percent in the last year, economists here are warning that the rise of protectionist sentiment, soaring oil prices, the huge American overhang of debt and other factors are casting a shadow over the future. 
 ''Clearly there are still risks in the global economy,'' said Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank. ''A lot of homework still has to be done.''
 One piece of that homework, everyone agrees, is the overhaul of institutions like the International Monetary Fund. But that has proved difficult, in part because countries with existing power at the fund, including some in Europe, are nervous about being marginalized after decades of power. 
 Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain and chairman of a committee that helps set policy for the fund, said Sunday that he expected that Europeans and others who might lose power to the Asians ''will approach this in a statesmanlike way'' and voluntarily give up some of their clout. 
 Another bit of homework, people here say, is for the World Bank, which lends more than $20 billion a year to poor countries, to figure out a new relationship with countries like China, Thailand and Mexico, which have economies strong enough that they can borrow in commercial markets more cheaply than from the bank. 
 A decade ago, the fast-growing countries of Asia and Latin America that were termed emerging markets were on the defensive after the collapse of their economies and the embarrassment of elaborate rescues carried out by the United States and the International Monetary Fund. But now some of these same countries, along with the oil-producing countries, are sitting on piles of reserves while the United States is the world's biggest debtor nation. 
 There is a new phrase at the World Bank that captures this situation. Many of these countries are now known as emerging donors, rather than just emerging markets. 
 China and India get loans from the World Bank because together they have more poor people than sub-Saharan Africa. 
 But China is also using its reserves to hand out billions of dollars in loans to Angola, Sudan, Nigeria, Zimbabwe and increasingly to nations in Southeast Asia in a way that the West criticizes because many of these countries, having recently negotiated debt-forgiveness packages, are now in danger of sinking back into debt. 
 One reason for the push to give China more power at the fund, American and European officials say, is to get it to be more responsible in its lending practices and also to encourage it to allow the Chinese currency to fluctuate more freely. 
 The United States asserts that China is keeping its currency at an artificially low level in relation to the dollar to sustain its high rate of exports. Critics say that policy is partly responsible for America's trade deficit. 
 But the countries with the increasing reserves have mixed feelings about the monetary fund. They say they want more power there, but also that they do not look back fondly on the period when they had to swallow harsh austerity plans in return for being saved in the 1990's. 
 ''Many large countries in the world are building up their own reserves to make sure they do not have to come back to the fund,'' said Ariel Buira, a Mexican economist who serves as a spokesman for a group of 24 African, Asian and Latin American nations. ''They are demanding more of a say in what the fund does in the future.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); TRENDS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); PRICE INCREASES (63%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Economic Conditions and Trends; Credit

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) International Monetary Fund; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (58%); GORDON BROWN (50%) Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EGYPT (92%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) China; South Korea; Mexico; Turkey; India; Brazil; Argentina; Egypt

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



389 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 383 words

 BODY:

EYES ON THE FED -- The main news of the week will be the Federal Open Market Committee meeting, at which the central bankers are widely expected to keep interest rates steady (Wednesday). Last week's news that the Consumer Price Index had risen 0.2 percent in August, down from 0.4 percent in July, looked to some economists like validation that inflation was slowing, a trend that would not tempt the Fed to raise rates. But the Producer Price Index for August also comes out this week, helping to inform any decision (Tuesday). Other reports this week will include the second-quarter current-account deficit (Monday), August housing starts (Tuesday) and leading economic indicators (Thursday). 


STORM CLOUD WARNING -- Directors of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank will meet in Singapore to discuss, among other things, economic imbalances brought about by the United States' trade deficit with China (through Wednesday). The managing director of the I.M.F., Rodrigo de Rato, said in a speech this month that there were ''more clouds on the horizon than there were a year ago.'' In its semiannual World Economic Outlook last week, the I.M.F. said that the cooling housing market in the United States would probably slow domestic economic growth and suggested that further interest rate increases might be a good idea.

STRONG WORDS FOR CHINA -- Days after delivering a tough warning to China about its economic policies, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the United States Treasury secretary, visits Beijing this week, his first trip there since taking office this summer. Last week Mr. Paulson spoke out against China's policy of keeping its currency, the yuan, at an artificially low value in relation to the dollar, a policy that has led to record trade surpluses for China. He said that China's currency exchange rate was increasingly being viewed by its critics ''as a symbol of unfair competition.''

REPORTING, QUARTERLY -- This week will bring a trickle of big-company earnings reports. They include CKE Restaurants, the Oracle Corporation and Progress Software (Tuesday); Bed Bath & Beyond, CarMax, Circuit City and Morgan Stanley (Wednesday); 3Com, A. G. Edwards, the Carnival Corporation, ConAgra, FedEx, General Mills, Nike, Palm, Rite Aid and Scholastic (Thursday); and KB Home (Friday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); PRODUCER PRICES (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (76%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (81%); CARNIVAL CORP (62%); CARMAX INC (52%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (52%); CKE RESTAURANTS INC (52%); GENERAL MILLS INC (51%); KB HOME CORP (51%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (81%); CCL (NYSE) (62%); KMX (NYSE) (52%); MS (NYSE) (52%); BBBY (NASDAQ) (52%); GIS (NYSE) (51%); KBH (NYSE) (51%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (81%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (62%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (62%); NAICS441120 USED CAR DEALERS (52%); SIC5521 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (USED ONLY) (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (52%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (52%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (51%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (51%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (51%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (51%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (51%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (55%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (55%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



390 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: China Competes With West in Aid to Its Neighbors

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: STUNG TRENG, Cambodia 

 BODY:
In the dense humidity of northern Cambodia, where canoes are the common mode of transportation, a foreman from a Chinese construction company directs local laborers to haul stones to the ramp of a nearly completed bridge.
 Nearby, engineers from the China Shanghai Construction Group have sunk more than a dozen concrete pylons across a tributary of the mighty Mekong River, a technical feat that will help knit together a 1,200-mile route from the southern Chinese city of Kunming through Laos to the Cambodian port of Sihanoukville on the Gulf of Thailand.
 This is the new face of China's foreign aid to poor Asian countries: difficult construction in remote places that benefits the recipient, and China, too.
 ''It is the favor of our government to the Cambodian people,'' said Ge Zhen, 26, one of the more than 50 engineers and 250 other Chinese workers on the four-year project. 
 Flush with nearly a trillion dollars in hard currency reserves and eager for stable friends in Southeast Asia, China is making big loans for big projects to countries that used to be the sole preserve of the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the United States and Japan.
 With the Singapore meeting of the World Bank on Sept. 19 and 20, China, one of the bank's biggest customers, is quietly shaking up the aid business in Asia, competing with the bank at its own game.
 For poor countries like Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar, and somewhat better-off countries like the Philippines, China's loans are often more attractive than the complicated loans from the West. 
 The Chinese money usually comes unencumbered with conditions for environmental standards or community resettlement that can hold up major projects. The aid does not carry penalties for corruption that are being increasingly used by the World Bank president, Paul D. Wolfowitz. And China's offers rarely include the extra freight of expensive consultants, provisions that are common to World Bank projects.
 For its part, China benefits from the added infrastructure -- roads, ports and bridges -- in the underdeveloped but growing region around it, to help increase trade and to move natural resources from China's periphery to its heartland.
 Liqun Jin, vice president of the Asian Development Bank and a former vice minister of finance in Beijing, said in an interview at the bank's headquarters in Manila that China had carefully considered how to use its increasing wealth. 
 ''China is attracting external capital, and as a balance China wants to help developing countries in the region by financing infrastructure projects,'' Mr. Jin said. ''Helping your neighbors to have a good life is no sin.''
 He added, ''China makes no bones that we want a peaceful neighborhood to develop our own economy.'' 
 The effects are likely to be enormous. Tom Crouch, country director for the Philippines at the Asian Development Bank, said, ''Here comes a very large new player on the block that has the potential of changing the landscape of overseas development assistance.''
 Already, in the past several years, China has given aid to African countries, where it is buying oil and gas. They include some with repressive governments like Nigeria, Sudan and Angola.
 Even during the cold war, China spread aid around Africa, sometimes to counterbalance assistance from rival countries, which were being helped by Taiwan. In the 1960's and 70's, for example, China aided Angola while Taiwan helped neighboring South Africa. 
 In Cambodia, Prime Minister Hun Sen boasts of China's offer last spring of $600 million in ''no strings attached'' loans, made during a visit from the Chinese prime minister, Wen Jiabao. The money will help pay for two major bridges near the capital, Phnom Penh, that will link to a network of roads; a hydropower plant; and a fiber-optic network that will connect Cambodia's telecommunications with that of Vietnam and Thailand.
 In contrast, Mr. Hun Sen points out that the traditional lenders together pledged just $1 million more than China. And the money came laden with conditions, including World Bank anticorruption clauses.
 Four World Bank programs in Cambodia worth about $70 million were recently suspended by the bank after its investigators found corruption among Cambodian officials in the procurement process.
 China's generosity to Cambodia has caught Washington's attention. The United States Navy is planning a port visit to Sihanoukville early next year, a first since the Khmer Rouge seized power in 1975.
 In the Philippines, China is also making a big splash, offering an extraordinary package of $2 billion in loans each year for the next three years from its Export-Import Bank.
 That made the $200 million offered separately by the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank look puny, officials from those banks said, and easily outstripped a $1 billion loan under negotiation with Japan. 
 Officially, the World Bank says it is not concerned about competition from China's increasingly energetic aid program. ''The more important impact of China on these countries' development is trade rather than aid,'' said Homi Kharas, the bank's chief economist for East Asia and the Pacific.
 The aid, chiefly for infrastructure, was being focused by China on the integration of trade in the region, a useful result for poor countries, he said.
 But Western aid donors complain that China is secretive about its aid projects, and that it declines to attend the traditional meetings presided over by the World Bank to coordinate aid activities in poor countries. They also say they doubt that China always delivers the full value of the projects that it announces. 
 And Western aid officials said they were taken aback when the news of the $2 billion Chinese aid package came out at a lunch meeting of more than 100 aid donors in Manila last month. The size of the Chinese loans came as a shock, in part because the Philippines serves as the headquarters of the Asian Development Bank, a lender dominated by Japan and the United States. China is also a shareholder.
 The secretary general of the National Economic and Development Authority in the Philippines, Romulo Neri, compared the Chinese aid package to those from other sources, and noted the appealing absence of the expensive consultant fees common to Western projects. 
 After being a favorite of the Bush White House, the Philippine president, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo, fell out of favor when she pulled her country's troops out of Iraq in 2004. 
 The Chinese appeared to have quickly filled the economic breach for the Philippines and, according to a memorandum from Mr. Neri's office, a number of projects are expected to be completed when Mr. Wen visits Manila in December.
 They include two toll roads and a water supply system for Manila, and further financing for a rail project already under way to connect northern Manila with four provinces.
 In some countries, like Cambodia, China's construction projects seem clearly aimed at helping to assure China's access to natural resources. 
 Western diplomats and aid officials in Phnom Penh said they believed that Cambodia had recently granted China the rights to one of five offshore oil fields that could yield as much as $700 million to $1 billion a year. Chevron already has an agreement for exploratory drilling at one of the Cambodian fields.
 Washington does not know yet, and would like to know, whether China plans to offer loans for an often-discussed deep-sea port at Sihanoukville that would allow China a convenient delivery point for its Middle East oil imports. 
 In resource-rich Myanmar, the former Burma, Beijing's only real competitor on the aid front is India. China has built dams and roads connecting the interior of the country to China's southern flank, and is currently reported to be working on a deep-water port on Myanmar's west coast.
 Myanmar is in deep arrears to the World Bank, which said it had no loan program there. The United States offers no official aid, either, because of the repressive nature of the government.
 In Laos, China has built a major road up the spine of the country, and has been influential as much by the prospect of what it might do, than by what it has actually accomplished.
 After years of study on the impact on the environment, the World Bank broke ground on a environmentally controversial major dam, known as Nam Theun 2, in Laos last year, because it knew that China was ready to step in to build the dam, bank officials say.
 Beyond its no-strings approach, China is often appreciated as a lender by poor countries because it is willing to take on complicated projects in distant areas that others are not.
 The bridge that Mr. Ge, the engineer, and his colleagues have sweated over during the last four years -- the temperature creeps up as high as 106 in April -- is in one of the most underdeveloped corners of Southeast Asia, the area where the Khmer Rouge first took power.
 Running from the bridge is a new, smooth 130-mile road built by Mr. Ge's team that connects Kratie, a village to the south of Stung Treng, to the Laotian border.
 ''When we came here four years ago, we would leave at breakfast time from Kratie and we would arrive here for dinner -- eight hours,'' Mr. Ge said. ''It now takes two hours.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Kratie, Cambodia, part of a 130-mile road that was built by China.
 Laborers building a bridge across a tributary of the Mekong River in Cambodia, with the assistance of Chinese engineers and other workers. (Photographs by Josef Polleross for The New York Times)(pg. A16)Map of Cambodia highlighting Stung Treng: China has used loans and other aid to cement ties to Cambodia. (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RIVERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); ETHICS (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%) Foreign Aid ; United States International Relations; Ethics

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) Asian Development Bank; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (69%)

PERSON: Jane Perlez; Paul D Wolfowitz

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); YUNNAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); CAMBODIA (99%); ASIA (96%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (94%); PHILIPPINES (93%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MYANMAR (92%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); SINGAPORE (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; China; Japan; Cambodia; Laos; Myanmar; Philippines; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



391 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; AMERICAN ALBUM; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Body Collector in Detroit Answers When Death Calls

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
With all the spectacular ways to die in this dying city, the fate of a man named Allan was almost pathetic. There he lay, in a weedy lot on the notorious East Side, next to a liquor bottle, his pockets turned out.
 But as it goes with such things, one man's misery is another man's money. The body retrievalist for the county morgue had arrived on the scene. He was happy. He sang strange little ditties. Cracked odd little jokes. Said things like: ''We got plenty of room in this here van, yes sir.''
Do not judge him. A happy attitude is necessary in his profession. It keeps the mind from shattering, salts one's sanity. Call the job dirty. Call it 14 bucks the hard way -- $14 a human body, $9 an animal. He said he made $14,000 last year. He made most of it at night.
 His tax forms officially read ''body technician.'' Unofficially, Mike Thomas calls himself body snatcher, grim reaper, night stalker, bag man. Whatever you call it, it is one man's life. 
 For Mr. Thomas, the demise of Allan was a cheerful occasion because, you see, work had been dead. There had been an odd lull in homicides, suicides and even natural passings here in one of the most violent American cities. It was the height of summer and people were supposed to be outside and killing each other, dropping dead from sunstroke, etc. Mr. Thomas wondered how he was going to feed his children the next week. 
 ''I ain't making nothing on these bodies,'' he said on his porch, the screen door half gone. ''I know that's kind of weird to hear; I mean waiting around for somebody to die. Wishing for somebody to die. But that's how it is. That's how I feed my babies.''
 He is happy to have the job, there are so few in Detroit. Unemployment hovers around 14 percent, more than twice the national average, according to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. The slow death of the car industry has led to the slow death of the blue-collar Motor City and now the State of Michigan in general. About 300,000 jobs have disappeared from the state since 2000 and another 65,000 factory jobs are expected to be gone by next year. Mostly car-related jobs. 
 One of the few people working long hours most weeks, it seems, is Mr. Thomas. 
 There used to be money in Detroit. Known in the 50's as the Paris of the Midwest, it had a population of 1.8 million, 83 percent white. It now has fewer than 900,000 and is 83 percent black. It is the poorest big city in the nation, with a third of the population living below the poverty line. 
 Detroit is an annual competitor for the ignominious title of Murder Capital. Last year there were 359 homicides. Halfway through this year, there were 220. There are about 10,000 unsolved homicides dating back to 1960.
 Mr. Thomas, 34, subscribes to a simple theory: Unemployment leads to drugs. Drugs lead to misplaced passion. Misplaced passion leads to death. And that's where he comes in.
 ''There's 360 ways to die, and I done seen them all,'' he said, dressed in black, waiting on a hot evening to be summoned to the latest body. ''I seen an old lady standing dead at her stove, her purse hanging on her elbow. I done picked up the pieces of a man who stepped in front of a train. I done picked up people just around this corner, here, from my house.''
 People he knew. People from his neighborhood, like Steve, who Mr. Thomas said should have known better than to rob a stripper. Like a prophet on the hill, Mr. Thomas explained the meaning not of life, but of death to guys from the neighborhood congregated on the porch, who robbed the beer truck in the afternoon and so came bearing gifts.
 ''You see,'' he begins, ''80 percent of people die naked and 70 percent die in the toilet. That means most people die naked in the toilet. I can't explain it. It's like Elvis. But as far as the afterlife goes, I believe through what I seen that those who commit horror and sin are doomed to repeat life, which is hell.''
 He is a macabre observer of the economic times. Mr. Thomas and some of his workmates say they notice some disturbing trends. By midyear, 8,559 people had died in Wayne County, which includes Detroit, and more and more, technicians see bodies remaining in the cooler longer because family members don't come to pick them up. They attribute this to the breakdown of family values as well as the lack of financial resources of people to bury their loved ones. 
 According to state statistics, the vast majority of homicides occur in the predominately black city, and the preponderance of suicides occur in the mostly white suburbs. 
 ''My theory?'' Mr. Thomas offered. ''White people kill themselves. Black people kill each other. Chinese people don't die.''
 ''True, true,'' shouted one young pilgrim, though no sighting of a white or Chinese man could be made within a 20-block radius of the porch. 
 Michael Thomas was born in rural Alabama in 1972 and moved with his family to Detroit a year later when Coleman A. Young was the city's first black mayor. Like most people in the city -- black, white or Arab -- the Thomas family came for the factory jobs and achieved the middle-class life. Mr. Thomas grew up on the East Side, raised through his teenage years by a white stepfather, for whom he was always having to go to fists with the other black kids in the neighborhood. He is short and broad-shouldered.
 After graduating from high school, Mr. Thomas was sent to prison at the age of 17 for carjacking. He served four years, kept to himself, got out safely and worked a string of hamburger jobs until his uncle connected him with the job at the morgue five years ago. He supports three children and has a fledgling rap career on the side. The autobiographical song ''Transporters'' is a neat little trick that can be found on the Web (www.myspace.com/gangstaclyde).
 ''One thing my stepfather taught me was the value of work,'' Mr. Thomas said on his way to another scene. ''A man who don't have work don't feel much like a man. A man without work, well, he takes the only way he can and that's usually no good.''
 A call came from the southwest side of town, with its Tudor style homes with brick and aluminum siding. A man had killed himself. He was white. Early 50's. He had lost his job at the boat yard earlier that day, a detective said. He came home, drank himself into a depression and put a bullet in his head -- the second white man to kill himself this day.
 It was a sad, quiet scene on the street. The man's family standing there silently stunned. Cans of cheap beer in their hands.
 Mr. Thomas was sanguine. ''We got plenty of room.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: WAITING FOR WORK -- Mike Thomas, a corpse collector, waiting on his porch in east Detroit for a call from the county morgue's office, and with his children at the home of their mother. ''I know that's kind of weird to hear
 I mean waiting around for somebody to die,'' Mr. Thomas said. ''Wishing for somebody to die.'' (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POOR POPULATION (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); HEAT STRESS DISORDERS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); FACTORY WORKERS (65%); HOMICIDE (65%); STATISTICS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



392 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Reactors Prone to Long Closings, Study Finds

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17 

 BODY:
An analysis of nuclear reactors by a safety group has found that they are prone to costly, lengthy shutdowns for safety problems regardless of their age or the experience of their managers. The finding could have implications for companies considering building new reactors. 
 The analysis, by David Lochbaum, a nuclear engineer at the Union of Concerned Scientists, counted 51 times that a reactor had been closed for a year or more. Thirty-six of those shutdowns were to restore an adequate level of safety by fixing flaws in equipment, procedures or training; 11 were to replace major components required for operations and safety; and 4 were for damage recovery. In all, of the 130 power reactors ever licensed, 41, were closed for at least a year. Ten were closed twice. 
Mr. Lochbaum said the most common reason for a shutdown was for an ''attitude adjustment'' for workers and managers, so they would be more attuned to safety. He said he was surprised by some of his findings, which are scheduled to be released Monday. ''I expected that the first plant off an assembly line would have been challenged, or troubled, but that there was a learning curve, and the fourth or fifth or sixth plant for a company would have avoided these problems,'' he said. ''But it wasn't the case.'' 
 But a vice president of the industry's trade association, Marvin Fertell of the Nuclear Energy Institute, said that the industry had, in fact, learned from its errors, and that only experienced operators would build new plants. And at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Stuart A. Richards, deputy director of the division of inspection, said his agency had improved its inspections, to focus on ''risk-significant areas,'' and was now able to find problems more promptly. 
 Extended shutdowns would be a bigger problem for future plants because, in the past, electricity customers of regulated utilities paid for them. But some of the reactor construction projects now being considered would be built as ''merchant'' plants, with no guaranteed income, only revenue from power sales.
 The heart of the problem, Mr. Lochbaum said, is that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is not good at assessing the ability of a reactor staff to keep the plant in good physical condition and maintain training and other requirements. As a result, he said, plants operate until serious problems accumulate and force a shutdown. 
 ''This is the wrong way to do business, from a safety standpoint and an economic standpoint,'' he said in a telephone interview. 
 Mr. Fertell, of the industry trade group, agreed.
 The only reactor currently in an extended shutdown is the Tennessee Valley Authority's Browns Ferry Unit 1, in Alabama. It last ran in 1985. The shutdown of more than a year that ended most recently was at Davis-Besse, near Toledo, Ohio, where workers found that an acid used in the plant, boron, had corroded a 70-pound chunk of steel in the reactor's vessel head, leaving only a half-inch stainless steel liner.
 Early in the era of commercial nuclear power, analysts theorized that shutdowns were what was known in the industry as ''teething problems'' and that with experience, reactors would run more smoothly. But most of the shutdowns came after the reactors were 10 years old. The Davis-Besse plant was more than 23 years old when it was closed in 2002. It was closed for more than two years. Besides the hole in the reactor head, engineers later found that crucial pumps that used water for lubrication were prone to break down because of debris in the water. Discovery of decades-old design problems is common during lengthy shutdowns. 
 While Mr. Lochbaum, a longtime adversary of the nuclear industry, is often critical of the companies that operate reactors, he said regulators were the problem in this area. The rules require reactors to have Corrective Action Programs to keep track of physical and procedural problems, and each lengthy shutdown is an indication that the program itself is flawed, he said. Regulators monitor the physical condition of reactors, he said, but are not good at observing the quality of the corrective programs. For example, the commission gave high marks to the program at Davis-Besse less than a year before inspectors found that operators had let acid eat through six inches of steel, bringing the plant close to a catastrophic rupture.
 Mr. Richards said he had not seen the report but acknowledged errors by the commission in handling the Davis-Besse case. But he said N.R.C. inspections had been improved using a new process, of which the Corrective Action Program itself was a major component. And, he said, the commission had previously penalized reactors for accumulations of minor violations, adding them up to count for a major problem; now it focuses only on major problems. 
 Mr. Lochbaum said that after a reactor was shut down for one reason, other problems were often discovered. In an extended shutdown at the Crystal River plant, in Florida, workers found design defects even though the plant had been running for nearly 20 years. He said the problems included that, in an emergency, the pumps would not have worked as intended and piping would have exposed workers and the public to radiation.
 ''Did the plant's owner bring in busloads of smarter workers after the N.R.C. put the reactor on notice?'' Mr. Lochbaum asked in the report. The problem, he said, was that perception by the inspectors that plant management was competent was blinding them to problems at the reactors. 
 But Mr. Fertell, of the Nuclear Energy Institute, said an extended reactor shutdown often became ''a monster can of worms.'' ''You were basically under a magnifying glass,'' he said, with inspectors finding issues faster than management could resolve them.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Reactors on Ice''Number of nuclear reactors shut down for more than a year, plotted by the year the shutdown began.Graph tracks number of nuclear reactors shut down for more than a year since 1975.(Source by Union of Concerned Scientists)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); NUCLEAR ENGINEERING (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221113 NUCLEAR ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%) OHIO, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



393 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Business Travel; USING TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Blogs About Business Travel Begin to Feel the Power 

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER ELLIOTT

 BODY:
LIKE most other business travelers who publish blogs, Steve Broback discovered their power by accident. 
 He had reserved a room at the Muse Hotel near Times Square, with the understanding that the rate would include free Internet access. But when he plugged into the high-speed data network, Mr. Broback, a conference organizer from Woodinville, Wash., was asked to pay $9.95 to connect.
''I asked about it at the front desk, and was told that the box to connect to the Internet was included in my stay,'' he said. ''Getting it to work would cost $9.95 a day.'' 
 Frustrated, Mr. Broback posted an entry on his Web journal about the experience. Less than two weeks later, a hotel manager sent an e-mail to apologize, refunded his Internet connection fee and pledged to change how the hotel discloses its surcharges. 
 That incident, which happened nearly two years ago (the hotel is under new management), inspired Mr. Broback to start a business-travel blog called InflightHQ (inflighthq.com). Hundreds, and perhaps thousands, of other business travelers who write blogs have also learned that their Web journals are more than online platforms to blow off steam.
 ''Bloggers have the potential to change business travel,'' said Clancy Ratliff, an assistant professor of English at East Carolina University, in Greenville, N.C., who wrote her dissertation on blogging. ''Maybe they haven't reached a critical mass yet, the way bloggers have in other places. But their influence may be growing.''
 Take Northwest Airlines' decision to charge an extra $15 for certain sought-after economy class seats -- a fee that also applied to its elite-level travelers. Bloggers like Mark Ashley, who writes Upgrade: Travel Better (upgradetravel.blogspot.com), pounced on the airline, saying that ''the 'premium' seats Northwest is selling aren't particularly special,'' and that the airline was effectively telling its best customers to ''drop dead.'' 
 Northwest responded to critics like Mr. Ashley by dropping the fee for most of its frequent fliers, although it would not specifically credit bloggers for the move. Andwhile Mr. Ashley said that he did not believe his blog entries persuaded Northwest to reverse its policies, he added that business-travel blogs like his played a collective role in shaping the airline's rules. ''I think that more companies are taking bloggers seriously,'' he said. 
 Some are taking them as seriously as the work of journalists. For example, Marriott International began an ambitious program to reach bloggers this spring. Its efforts included asking bloggers to speak to its corporate communications team, inviting them on press trips and offering them news in advance of print media. 
 ''A lot of business travelers are getting their information from blogs,'' said John Wolf, a Marriott spokesman. ''We wanted to have a better understanding of blogs.''
 To do that, Marriott assigned an employee to monitor the blogosphere and generate daily reports on what bloggers were writing about the company. It also began pitching bloggers on Marriott-themed postings, recently offering bloggers an exclusive about a plan to put airline check-in stations in its lobbies. ''The news got out there within minutes,'' Mr. Wolf said.
 One blogger on the receiving end of Marriott's pitch was Gary Leff, the chief financial officer of a university research center in Washington. He publishes View From the Wing (http://view.flyertalk.com). 
 ''The fact that companies are pitching me, as a blogger, is an acknowledgment that blogs are influencing people,'' he said. But until recently, the only evidence that Mr. Leff had any weight to throw around was that some of the special mileage offers he linked to were modified or removed after he posted them on his blog. Marriott's initiative appears to reflect a change in the balance of power.
 Robert Safuto, an energy market consultant from Weehawken, N.J., writes a blog, Red Room Chronicles (redroomchronicles.com), which focuses on Marriott, says the message the hotel chain is sending to bloggers is clear: ''They're saying, 'We're paying attention to you.' ''
 But business-travel bloggers are still a long way from wielding the power of political bloggers. Edward Hasbrouck, who writes The Practical Nomad blog (hasbrouck.org/blog), says that policy changes that result from blog posts are rare. ''I recently posted a horror story about the Transportation Security Administration,'' he said. ''The agency basically blew me off.''
 One reason bloggers have relatively little influence is that there are relatively few who specialize in corporate travel, said J. D. Lasica of Ourmedia.org. Frequent travelers usually do not have the time to maintain a blog and, until now, didn't consider it worth the effort. ''But I think business travel blogging will take off in the next few years,'' he said.
 Another reason to expect growth, said Shel Holtz, a communications consultant and business-travel blogger who publishes the blog RoadWeary (roadweary.holtz.com), is that business travelers aren't blogging to their potential. ''They need to become savvy about the means by which they can spread the word,'' he said. That means adding keywords to postings so that the content can be found online, and providing links to like-minded bloggers. 
 Then again, business-travel blogs may just need a big break. Alex Halavais, a blogging expert and assistant professor at Quinnipiac University, calls it the need for a ''Lott-Rathergate'' moment -- a reference to blogs' reporting on Senator Trent Lott's praise of segregationists and the challenging of documents cited by Dan Rather on President Bush's National Guard service. 
 ''So far it hasn't happened in business travel,'' he said. ''At least not yet.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: TAKING NOTICE -- Gary Leff, a blogger on business travel, is finding that companies are seeking him out. (Photo by Tyrone Turner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (93%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); AIRLINES (86%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (69%); WRITERS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (84%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (84%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (54%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



394 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Business Travel; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Where Clean and Friendly Always Work 

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

 BODY:
PENNY-PINCHING corporate travel departments and miserly per diems have made life miserable. But a boom in lower-priced lodgings -- and spirited competition among economy chains -- has helped lift the quality of rooms at many budget hotels and motels.
 Stay in a roadside motel on business travel? 
Millions do, especially outside major metropolitan areas, away from the Ritz-Carltons and the Marriotts.
 At Super 8, the country's biggest economy chain, with about 2,000 motels, each of its roughly 124,000 rooms now has a free wireless Internet connection. And curved shower rods -- they hold the curtain away from a wet body -- are being installed, too.
 The rates are cheap. Super 8 charged an average of about $53 a night last year. A full-service Marriott room went for about $150 a night. Marriott's high-end chain, Ritz-Carlton, collected about $288 per room per night.
 The price difference does not stop there. Internet access and continental breakfast are free at Super 8 and at many of its competitors. 
 ''That's the crazy thing,'' said Paul Pettit, president of Eastern Hospitality Management, a franchisee that operates 40 Super 8's. ''You go to these fancy places and they ding you for everything.''
 A full-service Marriott, for instance, typically charges $12.95 a night for a package that includes Internet access and local and long-distance calls, said John Wolf, a spokesman. Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts charges about $10 a night for Internet use, said Nicola Blazier, a spokeswoman.
 Prices at economy chains have risen less rapidly than those at higher-end lodgings, reflecting overbuilding in recent years, which led to a glut of lower-priced rooms.
 Super 8's blanket the countryside but also ring many large cities. A few are even inside the big cities. Houston has seven. Los Angeles has four. Chicago, San Francisco and New York each has one.
 The chain is also expanding in China, a country that lacks lodging for business travelers outside major commercial centers.
 Among American corporations, truck drivers have long been directed to stay in economy-class lodging, which includes chains like Motel 6, Red Roof Inns, Days Inn, Econo Lodge, Rodeway Inns and Travelodge, said Maria Chevalier, a vice president at BCD Travel Consulting in Atlanta.
 But as cost consciousness has spread through corporate America, and as hotel rates have risen sharply the last two years, more lower- and middle-level managers traveling on business are being told to stay at the likes of Super 8, Ms. Chevalier said. 
 Regular Super 8 customers include major companies like Wal-Mart, Home Depot, Cardinal Health and Deloitte & Touche.
 ''We use Super 8,'' said Jerry Shields, a Home Depot spokesman. ''We're constantly looking for the most economical means of travel that matches our business needs.''
 The first Super 8 opened in 1974 in Aberdeen, S.D. The fall pheasant-hunting season conveniently helped fill the place up. Lacking money for market research, the founders, Dennis Brown and Ron Rivett, tried to locate early Super 8's near Holiday Inns, thinking that the chain knew what it was doing, a company history says.
 The founders wanted to attract business travelers willing to spend a little more than Motel 6 first charged, $6.66, and priced Super 8 at $8.88 for a single room.
 ''The road warrior,'' explained Mr. Pettit, the operator of 40 Super 8's. ''He's a salesman, driving his car, calling on larger businesses in town, typically not on a per diem -- he's paying his own way. Clean and friendly always works.''
 The chain sold franchises, grew to 1,000 motels in the early 90's, was bought by a larger lodging company and doubled in size to about 2,000 outlets earlier this decade.
 Super 8's parent company, Wyndham Worldwide, was spun off as a separate publicly traded corporation in July by the Cendant Corporation.
 After a long period of rapid growth, Super 8 has spent the last three years trying to raise quality and, in some cases, weeding out poor-performing franchisees, said John Valletta, the chain's president. ''Some of them had to go,'' he said, because a traveler having a bad experience at just one motel in the chain will most likely stop staying at any Super 8 location.
 Mattresses and towels are being upgraded. A loyalty program provides points that can be redeemed at restaurants like Denny's and Olive Garden, merchants that include Blockbuster and Home Depot and amusement parks like Six Flags. 
 About 65 percent of Super 8 guests show up without a reservation. Of the roughly 35 percent who make a reservation, most do so the day they plan to check in. ''Forecasting is very difficult,'' Mr. Valletta said. But with a chainwide occupancy rate of 54 percent last year, most nights there were plenty of available rooms.
 Business travelers account for about half of the chain's revenue, Mr. Valletta said. Of course, the business traveler wants a clean room, quick check-in and a friendly face at the front desk. 
 ''I look at every complaint that comes in,'' Mr. Pettit said. A new e-mail quality survey is helping him spot problem motels sooner, he said. ''You put a new manager in there, and you can watch the scores improve.''
 Beyond breakfast, Super 8's do not serve food. But restaurants are usually close. ''It might be a waffle house,'' Mr. Pettit said.
 Dhirendra Dhir, who with his wife owns and operates two Super 8's in Wisconsin, runs a free shuttle between one of the motels and the Milwaukee airport and allows guests who stay at least one night to leave cars in his parking lot for at least 14 days.
 Truck and rail terminals close by combine to rent ''easily 25 to 30 rooms every day,'' he said. Business travelers visiting a nearby Wal-Mart and traveling state employees also account for many rooms.
 Upgrades mandated by Wyndham -- Internet access, shower rods, mattresses and such -- pay for themselves, Mr. Dhir said, in higher room rates and higher occupancy. ''We make sure that they are very happy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: BARGAIN -- A boom in cheap motels has led to better rooms. A Super 8 in Houston. (Photo by Patty Wood for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (77%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); RESORTS (73%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (71%); CITIES (71%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (84%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (60%); BCD TRAVEL (51%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (60%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (60%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



395 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-18

Pope Issues Rare Apology For Remarks on Islam
Pope Benedict XVI sought to extinguish anger among Muslims by issuing what experts describe as a first in recent memory, a personal apology for having caused offense with a speech that cited a reference that said Islam had introduced ''things only evil and inhuman.'' He said the quotations came from a medieval text and did not express his personal thoughts. A1

Chinese in World Bank Territory 

Eager for stable friends in Southeast Asia, China is making large-scale loans to countries that used to be the sole preserve of the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the United States and Japan. China's loans in that region are often more attractive than the condition-based, complicated loans from the West. A1

Conservative Wins in Sweden
Sweden voted to reject its prime minister, Goran Persson, whose party, the Social Democrats, has governed Sweden alone or in coalitions for 65 of the past 74 years. He was replaced by a conservative candidate who has pledged to revise the Swedish welfare state. A16

Tribes Unite Against Al-Qaeda
Twenty-five of about 31 tribes in Anbar Province, Iraq, have agreed to join forces and fight Al-Qaeda insurgents and other foreign-backed ''terrorists,'' an influential tribal leader said. Iraqi government leaders encouraged the movement. A12

Afghan Forces See Local Anger
American and Afghan forces moved into Andar District, Afghanistan, as part of a broader operation to reassert control in Ghazni, a strategically important province near Kabul. But while they encountered little insurgent activity, they did face anger from the local population. A3

German Far Right Gains Ground
Germany's National Democratic Party, which openly espouses xenophobic and neo-Nazi views, won seats in a state election in Mecklenburg-West Pomerania. A16

NATIONAL A19-24

New Details Emerge On Hewlett's Investigation
A secret investigation of news leaks at Hewlett-Packard was more elaborate than previously reported, and almost from the start involved theft of private phone records and surveillance of board members and journalists, said people briefed on the company's review of the operation. A1

Threat Response Is Criticized
Project BioShield, a $5.6 billion push to exploit the country's top medical and scientific brains and fill an emergency medical cabinet with new drugs and vaccines for a host of threats, has largely failed to deliver, critics say. A1

Virginia Senate Race Tightens
Democratic strategists see a seat in Virginia as one of the six they need to regain a majority in the Senate. Their candidate, a highly decorated Vietnam veteran, James Webb, is in an uphill battle against a paragon of sunbelt conservatism, Senator George Allen, Republican. A1

Nuclear Plants' Safety Faulted
An analysis of nuclear reactors by a safety group has found that they are prone to costly, lengthy shutdowns for safety problems regardless of their age or the experience of their managers. The finding could have implications for companies considering building new reactors. A19

White House Seeks Deal
President Bush's national security adviser signaled that he was seeking a compromise with the Republican senators who are rebelling against the administration's proposal to permit certain severe interrogation practices against terrorism suspects. A20

Curbing Politics of Churches
The Internal Revenue Service, in response to increased political activity from charities, including churches, during the 2004 elections, announced a renewed effort to enforce laws that limit charities' involvement in partisan political campaigns. A20

E. coli Outbreak Continues
A second California company has been implicated in the E. coli outbreak linked to spinach, the Food and Drug Administration said. A23

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Candidates for Governor Endorse Pataki's Vision
Eliot Spitzer and John Faso, the two major candidates for governor of New York, gave their support to an agreement announced by Gov. George E. Pataki under which federal and state agencies would become the anchor tenants of the Freedom Tower under construction at ground zero. B1

Riverside Minister to Retire
Rev. Dr. James A. Forbes Jr., the senior minister at Riverside Church, announced that he plans to retire next year after 18 years of service, stating that he wants to concentrate on a new ministry aimed at ''maximizing the witness for spiritual revitalization and the nation's spiritual revitalization.'' B1

ARTS E1-10

Broadway Audience Rewards
The Nederlander Organization, in the latest example of Broadway's fervent, if sometimes awkward embrace of modern marketing techniques, has announced the creation of Audience Rewards, an awards program for theatergoers. Nederlander executives say the program's eventual goal will be something similar to frequent flier miles and credit card points. E1

OBITUARIES A25

Patricia Kennedy Lawford
A sister of President John F. Kennedy who had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, she was 71. A25

Ivan Luini
Founder and president of the New York-based Kartell US, Inc., who helped popularize plastic furniture, he was 46. A25

Sergio Savarese
A designer known for lyrical shapes and a founder of the furniture store Dialogica, he was 48. A25

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

New Chip Moves Data Faster
Researchers plan to announce that they have created a silicon-based chip that can produce laser beams. The advance will make it possible to use laser light rather than wires to send data between chips, removing the most significant bottleneck in computer design. C1

ABC's 9/11 Series
The ABC mini-series ''The Path to 9/11,'' which drew stinging criticism before it ran, was unable to land sponsors, and the network essentially gave away five hours of network time in promoting the show as a public service. C1

MTV Virtual Reality Show
MTV is aiming to push the boundaries of reality television with Virtual Laguna Beach, an online service in which fans of the program can immerse themselves in virtual versions of the show's familiar seaside hangouts. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: A real test for the Palestinians; teaching math, Singapore style; the ghosts of corruption present; a vote for a smarter census.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Bridge E6
Crossword E2
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E9
Weather A22

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); ELECTIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); JOURNALISM (66%); POWER PLANTS (60%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (70%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (56%)

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (70%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (70%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (89%); JIM WEBB (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); GHAZNI, AFGHANISTAN (79%) MECKLENBURG-VORPOMMERN, GERMANY (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); SWEDEN (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



396 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: 2 Vying for Governor Back Plan for Public Agencies as Anchor Tenants in Freedom Tower

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The two major candidates for governor of New York gave their support yesterday to a new agreement under which federal and state agencies would become the anchor tenants of the Freedom Tower under construction at ground zero. 
 The endorsement by the two candidates, Eliot Spitzer and John Faso, is a step forward for the project, the centerpiece of the reconstruction effort in Lower Manhattan, because it signals that whoever wins the general election in November is likely to continue Gov. George E. Pataki's plans for the skyscraper.
Under an agreement announced yesterday by Mr. Pataki and Gov. Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, along with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, federal and state agencies will occupy about 1 million of the 2.6 million square feet in the building, which is being developed by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
 Mr. Spitzer, the state attorney general, who holds a strong lead in opinion polls and in fund-raising, has questioned the timetable for the project, calling it unrealistic. The project has been hobbled by delays because of disputes over design and security, and questions as to the economic necessity of the building. Meanwhile, construction costs have risen. 
 But yesterday, Mr. Spitzer said the new agreement was a sign of progress. ''I am pleased that Governor Pataki has secured the one million square feet of government tenancy, which is a crucial step in ensuring the financial viability of the Freedom Tower,'' he said through a campaign spokeswoman, Christine Anderson.
 Mr. Faso's campaign also welcomed the news of the agreement. ''This is a good step in the right direction,'' a campaign spokeswoman, Susan Del Percio, said yesterday.
 Mr. Bloomberg, who has at times been frustrated by the limited scope of his authority at ground zero, said the announcement took the city ''another significant step closer to our goal of restoring the World Trade Center site as a hub of commerce in Lower Manhattan.''
 Not everyone was as enthusiastic about the announcement. 
 ''This is clearly not an economic decision, but a political decision,'' said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit group that has monitored land use and development in the region since 1922. ''It really is about symbolism and politics.'' 
 The completion of the World Trade Center in the early 1970's added 10 million square feet of office space to Lower Manhattan and depressed the commercial real estate market for years. The Freedom Tower, along with three other towers, to be built along Church Street, is expected to add at least eight million square feet of office space. 
 ''When the World Trade Center was built almost 40 years ago, the government was a growth industry and you could fill up the trade center with government offices, but clearly we're not in a period like that,'' Mr. Yaro said. 
 Under the agreement, Customs and Border Protection, part of the United States Department of Homeland Security, will be one of the federal agencies in the Freedom Tower. ''Homeland security may be the one growth area in government,'' Mr. Yaro said. ''Maybe they'll need more space.'' 
 Eric J. Deutsch, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, the business improvement district in Lower Manhattan, was more optimistic about the new announcement. ''It's an enormous step forward, a catalyst in getting the project built,'' he said.
 The area had about 110 million square feet of office space before the 9/11 attacks and now has about 85 million, Mr. Deutsch estimated. ''Adding eight million square feet over the next six years doesn't necessarily create a damper on the market,'' he said. ''The economy has picked up in Lower Manhattan, office rents are moving up, vacancy rates are moving down and Class A office space creates a more modern, competitive and effective central business district.''
 Both Mr. Faso and Mr. Spitzer have pledged to honor Mr. Pataki's commitment to moving the governor's New York City offices into the Freedom Tower. Both have said that state agencies already paying market rents for other space in Manhattan should consider moving into the building. 
 ''There is no reason that state government offices need to be taking up prime commercial space in Midtown -- as the executive offices and the Empire State Development Corporation do right now -- when the Freedom Tower may provide high-quality space at competitive prices,'' Mr. Spitzer said in a statement in July. 
 Whether government employees will want to work in the Freedom Tower remains an open question. The Port Authority, which lost 84 employees in the 9/11 attack, has said it would be too traumatic to have its headquarters employees work in the building. 
 Because of concerns raised by the Police Department, the Freedom Tower was redesigned to have a huge fortified concrete base. But the proposed height -- 1,776 feet including the antenna -- and prominent location are still sources of anxiety for potential tenants. 
 Stu Loeser, a spokesman for Mayor Bloomberg, said, ''This will be the world's safest office building, and this announcement moves us forward to building it.'' 
 Asked if the mayor would consider relocating city agencies to the Freedom Tower, Mr. Loeser said, ''When we have an announcement to make, we'll make it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (60%); TERRORISM (59%); EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (59%) World Trade Center (NYC); Area Planning and Renewal; Elections; Governors (US); Freedom Tower (NYC); Relocation of Personnel; Terrorism

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%); JON CORZINE (78%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%) Sewell Chan; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; John J Faso; George E (Gov) Pataki; Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



397 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: 'Bold Moves' At Ford Not Bold Enough For Wall St.

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Sept. 17 

 BODY:
Its commercials assure car shoppers that the Ford Motor Company embodies ''bold moves.''
 Yet analysts saw little evidence of that emanating from Ford's headquarters here last week as the company unveiled its latest revamping vision, in which it called for 44,000 job cuts, acknowledged that it would not make a profit in North America until 2009 at the earliest and conceded that it could not keep up with its surging Japanese rival Toyota.
For all of the stunning admissions Ford made, Wall Street wanted more answers. Ford's stock price, which rose steadily the last few weeks in anticipation of a broader announcement, fell nearly 12 percent Friday as analysts downgraded the company and criticized its turnaround plan. 
 ''It's missing a lot,'' wrote John Murphy, a Merrill Lynch automotive analyst in New York, who dropped his rating of Ford to sell from neutral.
 Ford executives, who seemed surprised by the immediate and widespread disapproval, defended their announcement in an interview last week. ''We're laying a foundation for profitable growth down the road,'' said Mark Fields, president of Ford's Americas group.
 Still, they realize that this is Ford's third turnaround attempt in five years. The latest is a faster-paced revision of a reorganizing effort called the Way Forward that was laid out in January, and the consequences of failing have grown exponentially.
 ''This plan, in tone, sounds a lot like the January plan, and the January plan didn't work,'' said John Casesa, managing partner of Casesa Strategic Advisers in New York.
 ''They've got to make this work,'' Mr. Casesa added, ''because they won't have another chance.''
 Mr. Fields and Alan R. Mulally, the company's new chief executive, are charged with making it work. Mr. Fields, who was appointed to his position shortly before the original Way Forward announcement, avoided becoming a scapegoat for the company's failure to anticipate how severely high gasoline prices would cut into sales of sport utility vehicles and pickups.
 But Mr. Fields must prove that he has the mettle to execute the new plan successfully, and he risks being forced out if he cannot. Conversely, if the turnaround takes hold, credit will undoubtedly be given to Mr. Mulally, who came to Ford from Boeing, the jet maker.
 Despite hiring Mr. Mulally as chief executive instead of promoting Mr. Fields, the chairman of Ford, William Clay Ford Jr., has faith in Mr. Fields and believes that he will benefit from working with Mr. Mulally, a skilled executive with experience in turnarounds, according to a person with direct knowledge of Mr. Ford's thinking.
 Executives at Ford know that ''time is not our friend; if we don't make the tough decisions, they get imposed on us,'' said a person involved in strategy sessions with the company's senior management. ''We have fewer and fewer options as time presses on,'' said this person, who asked not to be identified because the discussions were confidential, ''but at least we're taking action.''
 The makeup of the team that will assist Mr. Fields and Mr. Mulally is in question, particularly after Anne Stevens, Mr. Fields's chief operating officer, announced her retirement last week. Mr. Mulally, so far, has not said whom he might recruit from Boeing, but there is talk that Ford's chief financial officer, Don R. Leclair, will not be in his job for long.
 Mr. Leclair appeared to lack energy as he participated in Friday's announcement, which was broadcast to reporters and analysts only on the Internet and by phone, but his defense of the turnaround plan in subsequent days has been spirited.
 Rampant speculation about the automaker's intentions have apparently skewed outsiders' perspectives, he said in an interview.
 ''I think sometimes expectations get ahead of schedule,'' said Mr. Leclair, who noted that Ford's shares were worth more now than two months ago, when Mr. Ford acknowledged that the original plan had to be accelerated.
 Among the actions analysts have anticipated, but that Ford did not say it would take, are the sale of noncore assets, faster product introductions and deeper capacity reductions. Ford had previously said it was exploring a sale of its British sports car brand, Aston Martin, but on Friday insisted that it was not looking to unload its money-losing Jaguar brand, its weakened Mercury brand or a stake in its credit operations. Those are steps that many industry observers deem necessary.
 ''When the ship starts to sink, you have to start throwing things overboard,'' said James Brock, a professor of economics at the Farmer School of Business at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio.
 Meanwhile, adding insult to Ford's concession that it will no longer be the second-largest seller of vehicles in the United States after General Motors was a report over the weekend that Toyota intended to increase production outside Japan to five million vehicles by 2008. Ford was outsold by Toyota in the United States for the first time ever in July and now says its market share will settle at around 15 percent, a level Toyota is expected to surpass soon.
 ''You had the pioneer in the mass automotive industry, Henry Ford, behind this company,'' Mr. Brock said wistfully. ''Hopefully, there may be some of that DNA still in the organization so that these guys can somehow pull together and figure out how to do this.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Alan R. Mulally, top, Ford's chief, and Mark Fields, a regional president, are charged with executing the company's revamping plan. (Photo by John L. Russell/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); AIRCRAFT MFG (60%); GASOLINE MARKETS (60%) Automobiles; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Production; International Trade and World Market; Organized Labor; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); AMERICAS GROUP (55%); BOEING CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (89%) Alan R Mulally; Mark Fields; Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



398 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Skip the Test, Betray the Cause

BYLINE: By Colin S. Diver. 
Colin S. Diver is the president of Reed College.

DATELINE: Portland, Ore. 

 BODY:
I SOMETIMES think I should write a handbook for college admission officials titled ''How to Play the U.S. News & World Report Ranking Game, and Win!'' I would devote the first chapter to a tactic called ''SAT optional.'' 
 The idea is simple: tell applicants that they can choose whether or not to submit their SAT or ACT scores. Predictably, those applicants with low scores or those who know that they score poorly on standardized aptitude tests will not submit. Those with high scores will submit. When the college computes the mean SAT or ACT score of its enrolled students, voila! its average will have risen. And so too, it can fondly hope, will its status in the annual U.S. News & World Report's college rankings. 
My college requires applicants to submit their test scores, and it refuses to cooperate with the rankings. But among our peers, more and more institutions are adopting the SAT-optional strategy. This is not surprising. Once a few colleges adopt the tactic, their competitors feel pressure to follow suit, lest they suffer a drop in rank. And so a new front opens in the admissions arms race. 
 Those institutions that have adopted the SAT-optional strategy rationalize their decision by claiming that standardized tests are faulty measures of academic ability. The problem is that every indicator of academic ability used by college admission officers is imperfect. 
 Consider high school grade point averages. We all know brilliant students with low averages because they are bored by unchallenging classes. And conversely, these days a high grade point average is as likely to reveal rampant grade inflation as individual brilliance.
 Likewise, college essays and even graded high school papers may say more about the writing abilities of parents or professional coaches than of students. Interviews are notoriously unreliable, with different interviewers giving widely divergent scores.
 Standardized tests, for all their recognized imperfections, are carefully designed and tested to measure such basic intellectual skills as reading comprehension, vocabulary, critical thinking, computational ability and quantitative reasoning. Are admissions officers at SAT-optional universities saying that the test scores do not provide probative evidence of the possession of these skills? Are they saying that these skills are not relevant to success in the educational program of their colleges? Neither claim is remotely plausible.
 Moreover, if standardized test scores really are so imperfect, we should scrap them altogether. It's illogical to count a test score if it is high but ignore it if it is low. 
 Those who advocate making test scores optional sometimes argue that individual applicants know best whether their test scores are good measures of their academic abilities. But how can a high school senior know this? We all believe that we are better than our test scores and, for that matter, our grade point averages, our writing samples and our interview performances. But wishing doesn't make it so.
 Those who drop SAT or ACT requirements say that doing so helps open admissions to more members of certain racial, ethnic and socioeconomic groups that tend, on average, to score lower on these tests. Dropping the requirement encourages such students to apply and makes it easier for the college to admit them. 
 But if the scores on these tests are in fact evidence of academically relevant skills, shouldn't the college know how much of a deficit the student will need to overcome if he or she is admitted?
 The college isn't doing any favor to applicants by pretending that these skills are not important, or that the beneficiaries of these policies will not have to compete with students possessing those skills in abundance. An institution that, commendably, seeks to enroll more minority and lower-income students can do so by giving less weight to SAT or ACT scores, either across the board or in selective cases. But concealing the applicants' test scores is just willful blindness.
 Making SAT scores optional is the latest instance of a disheartening trend in college admissions. In the rush to climb the pecking order, educational institutions are adopting practices, and rationalizations for those practices, unworthy of the intellectual rigor they seek to instill in their students.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (92%); ACADEMIC TESTING (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); GRADES & GRADING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); INTERVIEWS (85%); EVIDENCE (78%); GRADE INFLATION (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (77%) Colleges and Universities; Admissions Standards; Ratings and Rating Systems; Sat (College Admission Test); Tests and Testing; Colleges and Universities

COMPANY: U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: ACT (83%) Reed College

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%)

PERSON: Colin S Diver

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2006



399 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Broadest Measure of Foreign Trade Deficit Widened 2.4% in Second Quarter 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18 

 BODY:
The Commerce Department reported Monday that the deficit in the current account, the broadest measure of foreign trade, rose to $218.4 billion in the second quarter, an increase of 2.4 percent over the deficit in the first three months of the year. 
 The current account is the broadest measure of foreign trade because it covers not only trade in goods and services but also investment flows between countries. The deficit represents the amount the United States must borrow from foreigners to cover the shortfall between exports and imports.
The deficits through the first six months of this year put the country on track for a fifth consecutive annual deficit, surpassing the $791.5 billion of last year. The record for a single quarter was a $223.1 billion imbalance in the October-to-December period last year.
 So far, foreigners have been happy to hold dollars in payment for American purchases of cars, televisions and foreign oil. But the concern is what would happen should foreigners at some point decide they want to hold less in dollar-denominated assets.
 A rush for the exits by foreigners could send United States stock prices and the value of the dollar plunging and send interest rates higher.
 For the second quarter, the current-account deficit as a percentage of the overall economy stood at 6.6 percent, the same level as the first quarter.
 For the second quarter, the deficit in goods rose to $210.6 billion, an increase of $2.6 billion from the first quarter, reflecting in part the surge in oil prices. The surplus on services narrowed slightly to $16.8 billion.
 The United States recorded a record deficit on investment flows of $4.2 billion. That meant that foreigners earned more on their investments in the United States than Americans earned on their overseas investments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); US DOLLAR (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006



400 of 611 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Fears and Rising Oil Prices Bring Rally to a Halt 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks failed to extend last week's rally yesterday as oil rose the most this month and inflation concerns spurred investors to sell shares of retailers, the market's best performers in September.
 Home Depot, the home improvement chain, led the Dow Jones industrial average lower after Credit Suisse cut its rating, citing potential earnings shortfalls because of a housing slowdown.
Ford Motor fell for a third day after J. P. Morgan Chase analysts said the company's 2006 losses might be larger than forecast. 
 ''You're going to have two things working against these stocks,'' said Bart Barnett, head of equity trading at Morgan Keegan in Memphis. ''First, that they've had a great run. Second, that obviously higher oil prices are inherently negative for the consumer.''
 Stocks swung between gains and losses throughout the day amid concern that a report on wholesale prices today would show that inflation remains a threat. The Federal Reserve makes its next decision on interest rates tomorrow after leaving them unchanged last month for the first time in two years.
 The Dow fell 5.77 points, or 0.1 percent, to 11,555. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.31 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,321.18. Both benchmarks ended last week at their highest since May 10. The Nasdaq index added 0.16 points, to 2,235.75.
 Signs of slowing inflation have pushed the S.& P. 500 within 0.3 percent of a five-year high and have reduced the chances the Fed will resume raising rates. The S.& P. 500 last week had its best week in a month after consumer prices increased in August by half the pace of the previous month and oil prices tumbled.
 A measure of retailers fell 0.5 percent among two dozen industry groups in the S& P. 500. So far this month, retailers have gained 8.1 percent as a decline in oil prices has allayed concern that consumer spending will falter.
 Crude oil for October delivery rose yesterday on concern that a dispute between Iran and the United States about Iran's nuclear program would intensify and jeopardize oil supplies. The contract closed up 0.7 percent at $63.80 a barrel, the biggest gain since Aug. 24.
 Home Depot was the worst performer on the Dow, losing 64 cents, to $36.58. A Credit Suisse analyst, Gary Balter, cut the shares to neutral from outperform.
 Ford tumbled 20 cents, to $7.82. Losses this year ''are likely to be far wider than current expectations,'' a J. P. Morgan analyst, Himanshu Patel, wrote to clients.
 Sharper Image, a seller of products like robotic vacuum cleaners, dropped 34 cents, to $9.35. The company said it would restate results for the three years that ended in January 2006 after reviewing its stock option practices. Sharper Image also said its loss for the second quarter, compared with a year ago, widened before an income tax benefit.
 Applied Materials rose 58 cents, to $17.78, after saying it would buy back $5 billion in stock over three years.
 Higher crude prices gave energy shares a lift. A measure of oil-related companies advanced 2.6 percent for the best performance among the 10 industry groups in the S.& P. 500.
 Exxon Mobil added $1.65, to $66.30 for the Dow's best performance. Chevron rose $1.06, to $62.85. Even with yesterday's gain, energy shares are down 4 percent this month as oil prices have slumped 9.2 percent.
 The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 4/32, to 100 17/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.80, from 4.79 on Friday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.782	97.512	High Rate	4.815	4.920	Investment Rate	4.942	5.116	Low Rate	4.770	4.895	Median Rate	4.790	4.905	Total applied for	$44,298,513	$43,763,553	Accepted	$25,613,153	$22,936,144	Noncompetitive	$1,884,941	$1,901,483	

Both issues are dated Sept. 21, 2006. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 21, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on Mar. 22, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' tracks Treasury Bills, High rate at weekly auction since June. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); HOME CENTERS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); WHOLESALERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (72%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (71%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Government Bonds; Interest Rates; Credit; Finances

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (86%); FORD MOTOR CO (73%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (72%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); TSIC INC (50%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (86%); FORDP (PAR) (73%); F (NYSE) (73%); JPM (NYSE) (72%); JPM (LSE) (72%); 8634 (TSE) (72%); CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (86%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (73%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (73%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (73%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (72%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (50%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2006

 
