

401 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Pollution Poses Growing Threat To Everglades

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SCHMALZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: FLAMINGO, Fla., Sept. 15

 BODY:
The Everglades, 10,000 square miles of delicate marshland that is home to some of the country's rarest birds and other animals, are caught in a worsening environmental crisis, with thousands of acres already unable to sustain wildlife.
The National Audubon Society estimates that the number of long-legged wading birds, like wood storks and egrets, that nest in the waters of the Everglades has declined 90 percent since the 1920's.
This summer, for the first time, fish in most parts of the Everglades have been declared unsafe for eating, because of mercury contamination. Alligator hunting, in season this month in Florida, has been banned in the Everglades because of high mercury levels in gator meat as well.
 
Unwanted Plant Life
But of even more concern to officials is the runoff from dairy, sugar-cane and other farms. Environmentalists say the runoff, rich in nutrients, has fed an explosion in the growth of plant varieties that clog open waterways, robbing them of oxygen and crowding out animal life. The plants, especially cattails, are spreading at the rate of four acres a day. 
Meanwhile, 110,000 acres of the Everglades was swept this summer by fires that went unchecked because of drought.
''Of all the national parks, it is the one closest to extinction,'' said George T. Frampton, the president of the Wilderness Society. ''We ditched, diked and drained Florida thinking that was progress before we realized we totally changed the whole balance.'' What Should Be Done? Officials have responded with a flurry of proposals. The United States Attorney in Miami, Dexter Lehtinen, has sued the state to compel it to enforce its own water-discharge standards. The Army Corps of Engineers has begun studies on how to control the flow of water so that the dry season stays dry and the wet season wet - an important cycle affecting birds' nesting habits that was disrupted by man-made levees.
Congress is considering a bill that would bring 100,000 more acres under the protection of the Everglades National Park, which encompasses about a fifth of all the Everglades. State water managers have proposed seizing 40,000 acres of private- and state-owned wetlands that would be used as a natural purification system to filter out nutrients before they reach sensitive areas.
But the proposals are bogged down in bitter fighting between environmentalists, who charge that state water managers favor the agriculture industry, and the industry itself, which argues that it is being made a scapegoat for the state's failure to manage growth and that, in any case, the pollution is not so bad as everyone says it is.
State water managers say that the Everglades system may simply not have enough water to meet the demands placed on it and that South Florida is going to have to face up to painful choices: supplying water to the 4.5 million residents of the area, meeting the needs of agriculture or supporting the environment.
This week, for the first time in a decade, the state began pumping water that it knows is laden with nutrients into Lake Okeechobee, the main source of the Everglades' water. Officials said they had to do this so they could draw on the lake, which has been running low, to supply the drought-stricken Miami area, 50 miles to the south.
''We're living on the edge with this system in terms of meeting the water needs for 4.5 million people,'' said John R. Wodraska, executive director of the South Florida Water Management District. ''If man is going to live in South Florida and have enough water to drink, we're going to have to do some things to compromise the environment.''
But Pat Tolle, a spokeswoman for the Everglades National Park, said: ''What makes this park special are the values that are protected here. Other parks were set aside to protect some geographical feature - a forest or river canyon. This was set aside purely to protect a delicate ecological system whose heart, its lifeline, is the water.''
 
A Fateful Decision
The story of the Everglades, environmentalists and water-management officials say, is the story of a well-intentioned but ultimately misguided project that began in 1948.
That was the year the Federal Government, trying to make the central part of southern Florida economically viable, sent in the Army Corps of Engineers to build 1,400 miles of levees and canals south of Lake Okeechobee to drain 700,000 acres of wetland so that it could be used for agriculture. Most of the land was then planted with sugar cane.
The canal network also acts as a link - and, at times, a barrier - between the Everglades' main source of water, Lake Okeechobee, and the Everglades themselves. Once the canals and the levees were complete, the flow of water depended on decisions by engineers, not acts of nature.
In the early 1970's, after a record drought, state officials decided to use the system to even out the extremes of the dry and wet seasons, not realizing at the time that the cycle of extremes was essential to the survival of some animal and plant life. Officials also did not realize at the time that the long-term addition of just a few inches of water to the Everglades' normal level changes the environment drastically, from wetland to pond, thereby endangering some animals and plants.
And then came the start of what may be the worst problem of all. In the late 1970's, Lake Okeechobee began to change dramatically, damaged by blooms of toxic algae and other plant life that sapped its oxygen. Officials concluded that the main problem was phosphorous and that it came partly from the runoff of cow manure at dairy farms surrounding the lake. But they said it also came from the runoff of the 700,000 acres of wetland that had been converted to agricultural use and that was releasing phosphorous naturally as its soil decayed. The state had been pumping that runoff into the lake.
Water-management officials then stopped pumping the nutrient-rich runoff into Okeechobee and pumped it instead into the Everglades, thinking the area was so large that it could absorb the nutrients. It is that decision, environmentalists say, that has led to today's problems, especially the explosion in growth of the cattails that are choking the waterways.
 
Fight Over State Plan
Mr. Wodraska, the Water Management District official, said he would accept as a goal reducing the amount of phosphorous in the water to 30 parts per billion from its current level of as much as 100 to 150. He would do that by establishing a 40,000-acre ribbon between the agricultural areas and the main Everglades that would act as a retention area where, over eight-day periods, water would be held while the phosphorous was absorbed by plants.
But the plan has drawn an outcry from environmentalists and sugar-cane growers alike. Environmentalists argue that the district would in effect be writing off 40,000 acres. As the site became more and more polluted, they say, birds might be subjected to mutation.
The environmentalists maintain that the answer is to cut back dramatically in the amount of agricultural production. ''The farmers always get firsties,'' said Joseph E. Podgor Jr., the Dade County chairman of Friends of the Everglades.
The owners of the sugar plantations say it has not been proved indisputably that the phosphorous has caused the growth of cattails. In any case, they say, the proposed new phosphorous standard is unnecessarily strict. And they say the 40,000 acres would quickly be exhausted as a purification site, leading only to further criticism of the sugar-cane industry.
''It isn't agriculture that's growing and creating the demand for water,'' said Andy Rackley, the general manager of the Florida Sugar Cane League. ''It's the urban areas that are growing. The state needs to control growth.'' Meanwhile, as the phosphorous debate drags on, researchers are testing animals to see how widespread the mercury contamination is. While it has been found in fish and alligators, findings are not complete on the Florida panther. Biologists say they do not know the source of the mercury. It could occur naturally in the soil, or it could come from chemicals, like fungicides, used on farms.
''Obviously, we will never restore the Everglades to what is was,'' said Ms. Tolle, of the Everglades National Park. ''But maybe with management we can improve some of the conditions. I don't think it would be stretching it to say we're on the cutting edge between survival and death.''

GRAPHIC: Young fishermen fishing in the Everglades of Florida (NYT/Keith Meyers) (pg. 1); tourists on an airboat visiting the Florida Everglades (NYT/Keith Meyers); an alligators; great blue herons; white-tailed deer (NYT/Keith Meyers) ) (pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GEORGE T SCHMIDT (54%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (58%); NATIONAL AUDUBON SOCIETY (58%); THE WILDERNESS SOCIETY (54%); THE WILDERNESS SOCIETY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLORIDA; EVERGLADES NATIONAL PARK

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; WATER POLLUTION; MERCURY (METAL); ALLIGATORS; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; AGRICULTURE WATER POLLUTION (91%); NATIONAL PARKS (91%); BIRDS (90%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (88%); WATER QUALITY (87%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (78%); WETLANDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); DROUGHT (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); WILDERNESS (72%); SPORT HUNTING (72%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (72%); ENGINEERING (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); LEGISLATION (64%); LITIGATION (64%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (63%); ARMIES (52%); 

PERSON: SCHMALZ, JEFFREY



402 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Deng Reappears, Saying China Will Seek Change

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 16

 BODY:
Deng Xiaoping, China's senior leader, reappeared today after three months of seclusion to declare that China would continue its reform policies, but he suggested that the country would from here on pay more attention to ideology.
Brief television clips showed Mr. Deng, 85 years old, tanned and animated as he met with an old acquaintance, T. D. Lee, a physics professor at Columbia University. The meeting and television appearance appeared to be intended to scotch rumors that Mr. Deng is ill. Chinese officials and East European diplomats had said that Mr. Deng was suffering from prostate problems, and that doctors were checking for cancer. 
Mr. Deng's hands and feet shook briefly during the broadcast, but he walked unassisted and seemed in relatively good health during the clips shown on television.
''I went swimming in the sea,'' he said. ''I don't like indoor swimming pools, but enjoy swimming in the outdoors.''
Mr. Deng told his guest that China had learned ''a major lesson'' from the events of the spring and early summer.
''Over the years, some of our comrades just immersed themselves in their specific work, did not pay enough attention to ideological and political developments, were not vigilant enough against the serious corruption, and the measures taken to correct it proved to be less than effective,'' he said. ''After the turmoil, all of us have become sober-minded.''
The comments were a criticism of the ousted Communist Party leader, Zhao Ziyang, who is accused of neglecting ideological education and allowing rampant corruption. The point appeared to be that the next generation of leaders should pay more attention to encouraging Marxist culture. Mr. Deng said that the country's new leadership would adhere to Communism, but would also maintain the open-door and economic policies of the last decade.
''Twists and turns and shortcomings are unavoidable,'' he said. ''But we believe those who adhere to these policies will eventually win successes.''
 
Last Seen on June 9
Only small portions of the 70-minute conversation were shown on television, and Professor Lee did not return telephone messages requesting comment on the meeting. A Chinese-American who won the Nobel Prize for physics in 1957, Mr. Lee is well-known to the leadership here.
Mr. Deng had been last seen on June 9, congratulating martial troops for crushing the democracy movement five days earlier. He spent most of the summer at the beachside resort of Beidaihe in his villa, and it was there that his prostate problems reportedly suffered a relapse in mid-August.
While Mr. Deng retains only one formal position, chairman of the Central Military Commission, he remains the paramount leader and the ultimate arbiter of policies and careers.
Dressed in a blue-gray Mao suit, brown socks and black shoes, Mr. Deng leaned back in his padded chair in the Great Hall of the People and frequently laughed with his guest today.
He reiterated the view that economic growth should not be too rapid, for fear of aggravating inflation. ''One thing is sure,'' he said. ''China must develop, and China's productive forces must grow at an appropriate pace.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PHYSICS (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); ASIAN AMERICANS (75%); TRENDS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PROSTATE DISEASE (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); POLITICS (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); ARMED FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; DENG XIAOPING DENG XIAOPING (92%); 



403 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: Rain and Fines, but Mostly Rain, Slow Burning of Amazon Forest in Brazil

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANAUS, Brazil

 BODY:
Plumes of gray smoke are once again rising over the green sea of Amazonian rain forest surrounding this city. But preliminary survey figures from this year's dry season point to a new trend: a marked drop in burning.
Rain, fines and reversals in public policy are combining to slow deforestation by fire, according to Brazilian and American environmentalists interviewed at a scientific conference here in late August.
''In 1989, there has been a considerable reduction in burning,'' Alberto Setzer told the gathering. Mr. Setzer directs a three-year-old Brazilian project to monitor Amazon forest fires through photographs taken by a satellite of the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration.
 
Smaller, but Still Huge
In June, to the surprise of many Amazon watchers, Mr. Setzer's researchers reported that fires during the 1988 dry season destroyed 37 percent less forest than in 1987. The drop was from 80,000 square miles to 50,000 square miles. 
The downward trend appears to be continuing. During the first half of this year's four-month dry season, the satellite recorded that 59,000 fires destroyed 13,000 square miles of forest.
Although reduced, this area is still large - the equivalent of New Jersey and Connecticut combined.
Fires in the Amazon became a worldwide concern last year after studies showed that the burning produces about one billion tons of carbon dioxide annually. Many climatologists believe that carbon dioxide building up in the atmosphere will trap the earth's heat, producing the greenhouse effect.
 
Rain, the Great Preserver
Despite international protests over the fires, rain - not people - appears to be a major factor in preserving the forest. Last year, the Amazon received little rain during the traditional dry season, mid-June through early October.
This year, preliminary reports indicate that much of the Amazon - a region that covers 1.9 million square miles in Brazil, an area about the size of the United States west of the Mississippi - is undergoing the wettest ''dry season'' in a decade. Generally, a farmer needs five consecutive days without rain before he can burn a stretch of jungle.
''This is going to be an unusually wet year,'' said Paulo Nogueira Neto, an ecology professor at the University of Sao Paulo.
In addition, Brazil has made several policy changes that are believed to be slowing the burning.
 
Government Moves to Slow Fires
This year, Brazil suspended tax incentives that made it artificially profitable for landowners to clear large expanses of jungle for cattle ranches.
Last year, it adopted a Constitution that did not penalize owners of unproductive land. During a constitutional debate in 1987, landowners' fear of losing title to ''unimproved'' lands is believed to have contributed to a record level of burning - 80,000 square miles.
''Every indication is that the burning is going down, because of weather, enforcement and the lack of new project incentives,'' said Thomas E. Lovejoy, assistant secretary for external affairs of the Smithsonian Institution.
This year, in the face of international pressure, Brazil began a highly publicized campaign to slow the burning.
Using 5 helicopters and 60 pickup trucks, forestry agents from the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Natural Resources have handed out $10 million in fines in the last month to landowners who burn forest lots without a permit from the institute.
''I visited a farm 60 miles from here yesterday where they wanted to burn,'' said Mr. Nogueira, a pioneer in Brazil's environmental movement. ''The farm workers were talking among themselves about whether the helicopter would come.''
 
Forestry Agent Slain
A measure of the institute's success is the growing resistance to those who levy the fines. A hail of bullets greeted a helicopter sent in August to investigate a report of an illegal forest fire in Maraba, in Para state. Elsewhere in the state, which has had 13,500 fires this summer, hired gunmen killed a forestry agent.
After an attempted killing last May, the institute's representative in Acre state, Paulo Beninca de Sales, began leaving his house only under police guard. The president of the agency, Fernando Cesar Mesquita, has started to receive death threats.
''In Rondonia, there are rumors among the settlers that the fines are now so heavy that they will have to sell their land to pay the fines,'' said Philip M. Fearnside, an American ecologist who works here at the National Institute for Research in the Amazon.
Brazil's fire-prevention campaign was strengthened this summer by an $8 million low-interest loan from the World Bank, which was matched by an appropriation from Brazil's Congress. The money was used to rent helicopters, buy pickup trucks and pay salaries for forestry agents.
 
Posters Give Warning
Mr. Mesquita said 500,000 posters and 500,000 pamphlets were distributed throughout the Amazon this year, warning the region's 15 million residents that fire permits must be obtained from the newly created Environment Institute.
''Any requests to clear more than 200 hectares never get farther than my desk drawer,'' Mr. Mesquita said. The cutoff point he referred to is equal to just under 500 acres.
''This year, you are going to have a lot fewer fires than last year,'' Mr. Mesquita said, running his finger down a report of ranchers and farmers fined for burning without a permit.
To help Mr. Mesquita's forestry agents, the National Institute of Space Research in Sao Paulo state sends daily telexes to all Amazonian states. The telexes list the locations of all known fires detected by satellite.
''We can send the information within two hours,'' said Mr. Setzer, who gets his photographs from a satellite of the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration. ''However, there is not always the manpower to follow up. Sometimes a telex to one state can be five meters long.''
 
Incentives Are Opposed
Rather than depending on police action or on the vagaries of rainfall, many environmentalists here argue that forest burning can best be reduced by withdrawing economic incentives. They say that tax incentives should be ended - not just suspended - for farms, cattle ranches, sawmills and pig-iron projects, that higher taxes should be imposed on land sales to cool land speculation, and that road building should be restricted to areas with soils suitable for support agriculture.
''They have to go the whole way from suspending incentives for new projects to ending existing incentives,'' said Mr. Lovejoy, an ecologist with 20 years' experience in the Amazon. ''Around Manaus this week, I have seen at least three fires where ranchers were burning second growth.'' He said they were marginal operations, which would not be viable without the tax incentives.
The environmental meeting here received an unexpected visitor on Aug. 28, its opening day - Amazonino Mendes, Governor of the state of Amazonas.
In June, the Governor angered environmentalists when he announced that he would distribute 4,000 free power saws to local farmers to win support in elections next year. Reacting to an earlier giveaway, some Brazilian legislators tried unsucessfully to give chain saws the same legal status as firearms. In Brazil, guns require ownership permits.
 
Nature Reserves Planned
Making peace with the environmentalists, Mr. Mendes announced plans to convert about 6 percent of Amazonas - 40,000 square miles - into nature reserves for tourism and scientific research. Of seven reserves planned, one has been approved by the state legislature and two others are to be considered within a month, he said.
Nevertheless, many Brazilian Government officials remain sensitive over international concern about the Amazon.
Early in August, Air Force helicopters intercepted a French research balloon that was hovering over the jungle near here. On landing, the nine French researchers, who had entered Brazil on tourist visas, were ordered to pack up their balloon and leave the country.

GRAPHIC: Map of Brazil indicating the Amazon region and chart of how much of the it was burned in 1987, 1988 and 1989 (Source: Natioanl Institute of Space Research, Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL; AMAZON RIVER BASIN

SUBJECT: FORESTS AND FORESTRY; RAIN; WEATHER; FINES (PENALTIES); FIRES AND FIREMEN RAIN FORESTS (92%); TRENDS (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FOREST FIRES (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); DEFORESTATION (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); FIRES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); CLIMATOLOGY (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); RIVERS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES



404 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 54, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Apple Growers Hurt by Loss of Alar

BYLINE: By HAROLD FABER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GARDINER, N.Y., Sept. 15

 BODY:
Standing beside his packing house, Ted Wright watched a forklift operator pick up a large box filled with McIntosh apples and load it into a trailer truck.
Before the end of the day, 2,800 bushels, or 117,600 pounds of apples, were on their way to a cider mill to be pressed into juice instead of being packed for sale, at a higher price, as fresh fruit.
''We're picking a lot of apples off the ground,'' Mr. Wright said. ''They don't stay on the trees long enough for us to pick them.'' 
For Mr. Wright the fate of his apples was a direct result of not spraying his 300-acre farm here on Route 208 in Ulster County with Alar, the chemical that had been used for years to keep McIntosh apples on trees until they were mature and bright red.
 
More Apples for Cider
The apple harvest that began this week is the first after fruit growers in New York and across the country agreed not to use the chemical, which has been linked to cancer in laboratory animals, and its withdrawal from the market by its manufacturer.
Although the results are not yet in, early reports from some growers indicate that many of the new unsprayed McIntoshes are maturing with a mixed green and red color and dropping to the ground rapidly. Mr. Wright estimated that half of his McIntosh crop might go for cider rather than the more lucrative fresh market sales.
Though a major apple, the McIntosh is only one of a dozen or so varieties grown in New York. Many red apples, like cortlands, empires and ida reds; green apples, like Romes and greenings, and yellow ones, like golden delicious and crispin, mature on trees without the use of a ''stop-drop'' spray like Alar.
For years, though, the McIntosh has been the premier apple of New York State, accounting for about 20 percent of the total production. But faced with the ban on Alar, many growers are planting newer varieties to replace McIntoshes.
 
Could Drop to Third Place
''The standard Mac is a thing of the past,'' Mr. Wright said. ''You just can't grow them in the Hudson Valley.''
This year, the total apple crop in New York is estimated at 990 million pounds, which would drop the state to third place among the apple-growing states in the nation in 1989.
For years, New York has trailed Washington, where the major apple is the red delicious, but this year Michigan's estimated crop is larger, too.
The Agricultural Statistics Service in Albany reported that it expected this year's crop to be slightly more than last year in the western part, but slightly lower in the eastern section, including the Hudson Valley.
 
Big Money Losses
''The loss of Alar is a major, significant contributing factor but it's not the only factor in a low crop this year,'' said Warren Smith, the fruit expert of the Cooperative Extension Service. ''It comes after two years of good crops, which may have contributed to a reduced fruit set and last year's drought had an impact on tree health, leading to reduced fruit this year, too.''
For Mr. Wright, the drop in production directly attributable to the ban on Alar is resulting in a severe economic loss. He has had to hire more pickers, he said, raising his production costs, and he is getting less for his McIntosh apples.
Instead of being able to sell them for fresh apple eating at $10 a bushel, he has been forced, he said, to sell the apples picked off the ground to a cider mill for $2 a bushel.
''It costs about $8 a bushel to produce the apples,'' he said. ''You can see what that means.''
The effect of not using Alar was also apparent at the orchards of W. G. Minard and Sons in Rock Tavern in Orange County, where its 350 acres produce large quantities of apples sold to wholesalers and farm stands in New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
 
Half Green and Half Red
Robert Minard, the operator, said he had hired 44 pickers, eight more than usual, to try to pick apples before they dropped to the ground. ''That adds about 20 percent to my cost of picking,'' he said.
Although the empires and red delicious apples are maturing and reddening at the Minard Farm, his McIntoshes remain half green and half red, just as at the Wright Farm.
''We haven't had the drop yet, but I think it is coming,'' Mr. Minard said.
Standing next to a bin of newly picked McIntoshes, Mr. Smith bit into one. ''It tastes good,'' he said, ''but the major question is whether the consumer will buy half green-half red apples even if they are Alar free.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: APPLES; ALAR (CHEMICAL); PRODUCTION; SALES FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); APPLE ORCHARDS (90%); FRUIT & NUT FARMING (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (76%); ANIMALS (69%); STATISTICS (61%); 

PERSON: FABER, HAROLD



405 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 20, Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2020 words

HEADLINE: In 'Black Rain,' East Meets West With a Bang! Bang!

BYLINE: By DONALD CHASE; Donald Chase is the author of ''Filmmaking: The Collaborative Art'' (Little, Brown).

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES

 BODY:
After four grueling months that included location work in Japan and New York, the director Ridley Scott is completing ''Black Rain'' at Paramount Studios, on a hi-tech-with-Deco-accents hostess-bar set that is supposed to be in Osaka. Two scenes, filmed on successive days, seem to underscore the theme of the conflict-of-two-cultures thriller, which opens Friday at Loews Astor Plaza and 34th Street Showplace and casts Michael Douglas and Andy Garcia as New York cops pursuing a capo in the yakuza - or Japanese Mafia - in an uneasy collaboration with the Japanese police.
In one scene, Mr. Douglas, frustrated and angry, tries to extract information from Kate Capshaw, ultra-blond and sequinned to play the American expatriate manager of the club. ''Look,'' she tells him in a tough-shady-lady-adrift manner that recalls Jean Harlow and Rita Hayworth. ''I've been here seven years, and I still can't read the headlines. Yes means no and maybe means never. . . . No one's going to help a gaijin.'' Mr. Douglas is unfamiliar with the Japanese word, which Ms. Capshaw then defines: ''A foreigner. Stranger. Barbarian. Me. You. . . . More you.'' But in the other scene, also set in the club, Andy Garcia coaxes the formerly hostile, now alcohol-soaked Japanese police detective played by Ken Takakura on to the bandstand for a duet of Ray Charles's ''What'd I Say?'' This moment of musical communion soon signals an about-face in Mr. Takakura's character. When Mr. Garcia falls prey to a vicious yakuza attack, Mr. Takakura risks his job and his life to join Mr. Douglas in pursuing the responsible parties. 
It was the opportunity to explore the question raised by these scenes - Is East, East; and West, West, or are we all part of the Family of Man? - that attracted Mr. Scott, producers Stanley Jaffe and Sherry Lansing and Mr. Douglas to Craig Bolotin and Warren Lewis's original screenplay.
''I read a lot of newspapers,'' Mr. Douglas says during a break in filming, ''and the movies I'm drawn to both as an actor and as an actor-producer tend to have a current-events mode. I'm thinking about 'The China Syndrome' and 'Wall Street.' '' The former, which he produced and acted in, was about a nuclear-plant accident that, in fact, prefigured the Three Mile Island crisis of spring 1979. The latter, for which he won the 1987 Academy Award for best actor, but did not produce, focused on the still-controversial mergers-and-acquisitions fever and its effect on the financial community's ethics.
''I felt,'' he continues, ''that there was something between us and Japan that was unresolved, that was a mixture of hostility and admiration on both sides - really confused. It involves Japan's cultural imitation of the United States, followed by its economic supremacy over the United States, all of which is colored by lingering memories of World War II.'' More specifically, by the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki: ''You turned the rain black,'' one Japanese character reproaches Mr. Douglas, referring to the combination of ash and precipitation that fell on the devastated cities.
''I thought,'' adds Mr. Douglas, who is also involved in ''Black Rain'' in a production capacity, ''that this particular picture, as a cop-action picture, could explore some of the differences in customs and behavior - explore some of the hostilities that our two cultures and societies have for each other.''
''The way in,'' Mr. Scott says, ''is the conflict between police methods. Michael - as Conklin - is a New York homicide detective with a certain disgruntlement, a certain dissatisfaction with the system and a certain renegade quality. It's even suggested that he's on the take in a minor way. Ken, on the other hand, is a thorough, by-the-book, hardline bureaucrat who is part of what seems to be this wonderful machine in Japan.
''Michael, I think, re-establishes some lost values in himself - traditional values, which somewhere along the line have been lost in the West but which I think still exist in Japan, such as a sense of honor and a sense of family - through his experience with this Japanese character. And Ken - who plays a kind of Japanese Everyman, the salaried man, the bourgeois, what we think of as the automaton - loses his rigidity and opens up through his contact with Michael and Andy Garcia. For Ken Takakura - both as that character and as an actor - to stand up and sing is an incredibly alien and even painful thing.''
Mr. Scott - whose extraordinary eye was evident in ''The Duellists,'' ''Alien'' and, rather ironically, in the Japanized Los Angeles of 2019 that he presented in ''Blade Runner'' - admits that at first he was stumped as to how to visualize Japan in ''Black Rain.''
''Japan is difficult visually, awkward visually,'' the English director says. Looking first at Tokyo and Kyoto as possible filming sites, he concluded that ''it's all this squeaky-clean New Town. Everything is well-kept, with gigantic freeways and a gigantic scale of architecture. . . . But the architecture is really not definitively Japanese, except in pockets and pieces and bits.''
Then the director was taken to Osaka by Alan Poul, the film's resident Japanologist and associate producer, who served Paul Schrader's ''Mishima'' (1985) in the same capacities when it was filmed in Tokyo. Mr. Scott found Osaka, whose population of three million makes it Japan's third-largest city, suitably ''big, but provincial, [with a] European feel because of a lot of parks and also a gentility.'' It is also, on the screen, an industrial center whose streets are dense with pedestrian and motorized traffic and whose skies are dense with pollution.
Though Michael Douglas usually involves himself deeply in the preparation of the films he produces, he did not in this case accompany Mr. Scott, Mr. Poul and Mr. Jaffe on their location-scouting expeditions. ''I wanted to see Japan with fresh eyes, as the character does,'' he explains, ''so I held off going there until the casting sessions for the Japanese actors.''
The casting sessions were the first of a series of life-imitates-art cultural clashes between the film makers and the Japanese.
''As far as we were concerned,'' Mr. Poul says, ''the casting sessions were conducted very civilly, along the lines that you cast a film in America. Which is, you ask a lot of top actors, top talent to come in at 20-minute intervals; you talk to them for a while; they read for you; you get them on videotape, and they go.
''In Japan, though, actors do not audition'' - especially actors of the stature of Mr. Takakura, who enjoys a status comparable to that of Clint Eastwood. ''The idea of putting yourself in a position that's potentially humiliating is very disagreeable - and very alien to the Japanese experience. They spend their lives making each other's lives easy - often that's a priority over honesty, over frugality. . . . But here, we had within the space of a few days many of the nation's top actors coming in and out of the Imperial Hotel, which is the most prominently situated hotel in Tokyo.''
''Each actor would arrive with his manager,'' Ridley Scott recalls with a chuckle, ''the manager being fairly angry at having to be there at all. But because we were so well promoted, they were torn between not coming at all and coming to see what was going on.''
Differences in customs and mentalities were also evident during the six weeks of actual shooting on ''Black Rain'' in Japan.
''If you look at most Japanese movies, contemporary Japanese movies,'' Stanley Jaffe says, ''you will see that they take place mostly on [studio-built] sets, and that what on-street scenes as there are were clearly shot with a hidden camera. You don't see real scenes staged in populated areas, as we would expect them to be staged here in the States.''
This lack of familiarity with shooting in real locations - plus what Alan Poul calls a ''literal-minded and image-conscious'' strain in the Japanese psyche - led to problems in securing shooting sites. ''People,'' Mr. Poul recalls, ''thought that having their store or their house used as a place frequented by yakuza would reflect badly on them. And then we wanted to play a row of shops in a fish market as someone's apartment, we were told, 'But people don't really live here. . .' ''
Lack of familiarity with street shooting also meant that the Japanese police were totally unacquainted with the notion of controlling crowds to accommodate a film unit. When Mr. Scott and Mr. Jaffe wanted to film scenes in the Dotonburi nightclub district of Osaka with police cooperation, they had to agree to do so over a number of days, in the quiet hours between 3 and 6 in the morning, instead of in one dusk-to-dawn sweep.
''It was a bit troublesome,'' admits Mr. Jaffe, ''[but] it meant that we could, during those hours, shoot anything we wanted and shoot it with complete control.''
Mr. Jaffe is perhaps a bit disingenuous, because in fact the control was achieved by a 50-strong private security force hired by the production, while, Alan Poul says, ''the cops stood around and watched. . . . And then the police would come out and say, 'Look, look at the disturbance you're creating.' I don't have a lot of kind things to say about the Japanese police, except that ultimately they let us do it, ultimately we got the shot. . . . And the fact is that, though the Dotonburi is one of the single most famous urban landscapes in Japan, it's never - before this - been adequately captured on film.''
In fact, no matter the difficulties, the principal Westerners involved in ''Black Rain'' returned to the United States feeling that the Japanese experience was a positive one. And just as in the film, it was individuals who broke down cultural or institutional barriers.
Of the 120 Japanese who joined 45 Westerners on the crew, Mr. Scott says: ''We communicated through interpreters, but I found there's an international language in film making. Once they know how you're functioning, they all move very quickly, like an army - they were great.'' And despite being required to work, on the average, two hours more per day than is normal for them, ''they had endless stamina. . . . Once they were for you, they would die - absolutely die - for you.''
Mr. Scott directed the Japanese actors through an interpreter, and in the scenes in which Japanese characters speak Japanese among themselves, he had to rely on the interpreter to evaluate the niceties of their line readings. ''But it's funny,'' he notes, ''when you're dealing with a good actor, you know what's going on. I found the Japanese actors were brilliant. I thought I was going to get Kabuki Theater and I didn't get that at all. I got very good, very balanced, very contemporary, very real performances.''
Mr. Scott cites especially the performance of Ken Takakura, and, like Alan Poul, points to the ''courage'' of the Japanese actor in diverging from his customary strong-silent antihero screen persona to play an establishment figure in his first American film.
''Actually, there's a Japanese banquet of actors in the movie,'' says Andy Garcia (''The Untouchables''), referring, in addition to Mr. Takakura, to Yusaku Matsuda, Tomisaburo Wakayama, Shigeru Koyama, Yuya Uchida, who play yakuza or police types, and Miyuki Ono, who plays a Dotonburi hostess.
''It's been a real joy because you learn that acting is really an international language,'' he adds, echoing Mr. Scott. ''It doesn't matter to me how or where they trained - it hasn't even occurred to me to ask them what their process was. . . . I'm just looking in their eyes. The graciousness and honor these people bestow on themselves and the people they work with is enlightening. If other cultures patterned themselves after the Japanese, as represented by these actors, we'd be be a lot better off - certainly a lot of movies would be better off. There's not a lot of ego that I find.''
Asked for his opinion on the making of ''Black Rain,'' Ken Takakura, whose conversational English is limited, replies: ''It is an experience I will never forget.''

GRAPHIC: Scenes from ''Black Rain'' with Andy Garcia and Michael Douglas (David James) (pg. 20; 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BLACK RAIN (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (63%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (62%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (50%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%); INDUSTRIAL ACCIDENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CHASE, DONALD; DOUGLAS, MICHAEL; SCOTT, RIDLEY MICHAEL KIRK DOUGLAS (92%); RIDLEY SCOTT (74%); RITA HAYWORTH (56%); 



406 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 5, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
The Demon Seesaw Actors Ride

BYLINE: By FRANK LANGELLA; Frank Langella will appear as Prospero in ''The Tempest,'' scheduled to open at the Roundabout Theater in November.

 BODY:
His hands were trembling so much I thought he was going to break into a hundred pieces like a Tom and Jerry cartoon character. He had been sitting at a nearby table in an L.A. actors' hangout and as he got up to leave, he threw me a ''We've never met, but I know you'' wave. I waved back and asked him to join my table. He hesitated a beat, then came over.
I was having a late supper with an actress friend, keeping a date we'd made in New York earlier that week. We three exchanged perfunctory L.A. versus New York cliches: the requisite ''Love your work'' phrase and avoidance of the ''What are you doing?'' question. The trembling hands continued throughout our 10-minute conversation. I resisted the urge to ask him if he was all right because something inside me understood the tremble and knew the answer. 
This man had once been at the top of our profession. A series of successful films and an Oscar nomination had capped a hot streak lasting some four or five years in the mid-70's. Things turned bad. He was now 50 and forgotten. Facing me was an actor climbing the ladder again. Lightly tanned, clean-shaven, eggshell thin, in a blazer and tie; the hands trembling to hold onto the bottom rungs once more. He excused himself and said he was off to see a midnight movie. ''I want to get lost in the dark of the theater,'' he said.
My friend and I fell silent, wondered if we could have been more solicitous, and decided it was best not to invade a shell that seemed barely held together. But his tremble stayed with me through dinner and after I drove her home. It awoke a fear in me. It became a symbol of the questions I had been asking myself more persistently each year. Why do actors live the lives we do?
Some basic truths about us, some fundamentals: married, single, divorced, rich, broke, breaking in or holding on, the morning after Oscar, Tony or Emmy, or struggling along without recognition; whether we are newcomers, superstars, an enduring light, a flash in the pan, a has-been or a comeback king, from low self-esteem to insufferable arrogance - we are the seesaw kids. Kids who hold on tight and wait, wait for the call, the audition, the part, the review - and then we do it again. Those are the ground rules. You accept them if you are an actor. And you accept the demons.
One veteran character actor told me he is so excited when the job comes to a close. He takes himself and his wife to Martha's Vineyard and for four or five days he is in bliss. ''And then,'' he said, ''every time the phone rings, I am running up the dock like an old fool, thinking 'Oh, God, please don't hang up. I hope it is work.' ''I've got money now,'' he said, ''but that's no comfort.'' Another actor, 34 years old, told me when he's waiting he drives back and forth across the United States calling his agent every few days from phone booths. He has no money and no comfort. And another, convinced each time his illnesses are not hypochondriacal, drives himself to doctors' offices and waits for test results. One actress does health spas, another buys and sells houses, a third designs gardens. ''Dangerous things, gardens,'' she said. ''You never want to come out of them.'' A not unsuccessful man with an Oscar told me that when he is out of work an inertia so great overwhelms him that he is practically catatonic. He could not leave his home during one period for over three months. ''Why?'' I asked. ''Fear,'' he said.
And fear encourages the demons insecurity and uncertainty. An elderly actress was over for dinner. When we sat down she threw back a straight Scotch and said, ''You know what I did today? I did a general get-to-know-you, they call it, at a new agency I've just signed with. Look, I don't expect them to kiss my backside, but I have been at this for 38 years and I sat there as kids younger than my children said things like, 'She'd be great as so-and-so's wife in his new series' or 'How good are your contacts in town? Who do you know personally?' '' She was torn between her insecurity and need to be accepted and her anger at expecting and not receiving the treatment she felt her lifetime of achievement had entitled her to.
An agent once said to me when I mentioned I was in my third month of unemployment, ''How I envy you! You can sleep late; take the kids to the park; go on holiday.'' ''Why don't I take the keys to your office,'' I said, ''lock the doors, send home your staff and let you know when you can come back to work. Wait until I have something for you.'' He laughed, but didn't get it. How could he? How could anyone who has not experienced unemployment several times a year every year of his working life. No matter how often an actor may tell himself that a refusal is not necessarily a rejection, the word ''No'' only deepens his self-doubt.
And, even when employed, the actor is still stalked by uncertainty. A great Broadway star once told me that during the entire rehearsal period of one of her many triumphs, she got out of her taxi 20 blocks before the rehearsal studio and walked the entire way in order to stop shaking. ''I was certain I was going to be fired,'' she said. I recalled that when I was a young actor my famous leading lady asked if I would drive her to the first day of rehearsals out of town. ''Sure,'' I said, too cocky to be nervous myself. She got into my car; we drove three blocks and she promptly vomited. ''Wait until there is more at stake,'' she said. ''You'll know what it's like.'' And, as the seesaw rocked back and forth for me, I remembered her words.
I remembered again when years later a close friend of mine called and said, ''You're back in town. Let's have dinner.'' It had been close to 10 months since we had seen each other. We met at a local restaurant. When last I'd seen him, he and his wife had bought a beautiful Bel Air house, one Mercedes and one Jaguar and put their children in private schools. During our dinner he freely admitted that it had all gone bad for them. As we waited in the garage, he told me the house was sold, so, too, the cars, and they were now living in a two-bedroom apartment in West Hollywood. A wreck of a car was brought up by the attendant. ''Ah, well,'' he said, ''back to coach. Keeps you humble.'' He drove away smiling, with a wave.
In between actors' waves to each other there are months and even years of travel to foreign countries, divorces, awards, clinics, love affairs, feuds, and yet whenever we meet we pick up the thread again.
Though sometimes it's more the needle than the thread. Actors can be immensely cruel to one another. There are times when you meet an actor you don't know and he greets you with hostility or condescension or even dismissal. It can be blown away sometimes - and sometimes it develops into downright hatred. A difference in acting styles, position on a set, or being surrounded by too many assistants, can cause actors to polarize. If your career moves ahead or drops behind a friend, the friendship is jeopardized. Your demons against his.
And those demons themselves are competing with an irrevocable one: aging. One strong, up-from-the-floor fighter of an actress said to me, ''I won't be seeing you for a while, darling. I'm off to play the mother in a TV pilot. Can you imagine? The mother!'' she said again. And then totally without rancor, she said, ''You know, I never dreamed it would turn out like this. I thought it would always be Phaedra or Shaw or working with the great directors. I never dreamed.''
One lunch by a pool a young friend of mine said of a 50-ish actor walking by our table, ''Look at him. A fine figure of a has-been.'' I laughed, but it stung. A sag in your career or a sag in your chin, and you're a party joke. And, if someone else isn't noticing your graying hair or expanding waistline, you are. The actors' anxiety over aging is more acute than most. Part of the product starts to wear out and the consumer wants a new one.
Several years ago, on the set of a film, eight of us between the ages of 35 and 50 sat around the table. I studied my face-lifted, hair-dyed, overtanned, lipo-bellied, toupeed, capped-teeth and skin-peeled colleagues. One friend said, ''I'm making it at last - at 48 - I'm making it. I'm going to dye my hair, pump my muscles and smile my way to stardom.''
That smile can be difficult to maintain. In Paris one early morning, waiting to be fitted for a beard, I noticed in the booth next to me one of the world's great beauties. As she was being fitted for a wig, the man attending her said, when an old film of hers was mentioned, meaning no harm, ''God, you were beautiful then.'' She smiled, looked him in the eye, and said, without a trace of bitterness, ''Ah, well, we all have our moment, don't we.'' When the moment passes, it requires of the older actor a profound dignity. Those who age gracefully before the public do so while struggling privately to let go of that for which they were initially loved.
And deeper inside us, past vanity, past fear, past the waiting, past uncertainty and insecurity, there is a demon I can find no name for.
One early morning I looked out the window of the rented house in the country where I was working. Sitting poolside, wrapped in a fur coat, smoking a cigarette, surrounded by empty champagne bottles, was my leading lady. It was 6 A.M. I went down and sat next to her. A long silence and then she said, ''I can't. I can't any more. I can't go where I have to go inside to be really good and survive. I hate revealing myself and I despise myself for wanting to be liked.''
I fear the demons like every other actor. But more than their existence, I fear their departure from me. I need them. They keep away the nameless one. Actors have a legitimate claim on the word ''survivor.'' But just surviving is a victory with no spoils. I want the spoils, and I'll take the pain that goes with getting them.
With each new role comes a test of heart, mind and spirit. Through the work an actor find his place in society. Up against a task larger than himself, he can transform and overcome. More than suffering, more than success, more than defeat, the work strengthens and illuminates. It calms the tremble. It steadies the seesaw.

GRAPHIC: ''The Actors,'' from a triptych by Max Beckmann (Bettman Newsphotos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (62%); 

SUBJECT: ACTORS AND ACTRESSES ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); FILM (77%); 

PERSON: LANGELLA, FRANK



407 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1597 words

HEADLINE: Driving Down The Dollar

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
These days, it seems that nothing can stop the mighty dollar. A combination of relatively high interest rates, a desire by foreigners to invest in American assets and concerns over political instability elsewhere has turned the dollar into the darling of the currency markets. Last May, a dollar bought 130 yen; today it buys 144 yen. And a dollar is now worth 1.93 West German marks, up from 1.88 last spring.
That is good news for those patriots who believe a strong dollar is a sign of a strong America. But largely out of a fear that a high dollar could weaken the American economy, many policy makers are beginning to ask whether this is the time, once again, to knock down the dollar.
''We're in for big trouble ahead,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a nonprofit economic research group based in Washington. ''I would counsel the Administration to make a major attack on the dollar. If we don't, the consequences will be very, very severe.'' 
Rudiger Dornbusch, an economics professor at the Massuchusetts Institute of Technology, agrees. ''It is clear that the current level of the dollar is absurd.''
So far, the Bush Administration, preoccupied by the savings and loan crisis and the nation's mounting debt, has paid little attention to the dollar - which if left unattended, could cause the price of American goods abroad to soar and hurt the industries that produce them. The Federal Reserve has been reluctant to drive down the dollar by increasing the money supply for fear of triggering inflation. Besides, no matter what happens, many say that unless the nation's budget deficit is finally reduced, no real progress can be made since the deficit props up interest rates which, in turn, keep the dollar strong.
In the short run, the Federal Reserve has intervened in the currency markets with massive purchases and sales of dollars. But this has proved to be only a temporary fix. Even when it sold a record $12 billion this summer, the dollar fell for a few weeks only to resume its upward climb. With foreign exchange markets now estimated to trade nearly $500 billion a day, such intervention is limited.
''The dollar did come down, but not far enough,'' said Kathryn Dominguez, a public policy professor at Harvard University. ''The Government, central banks and the Treasury have a bit of control in the market, but they cannot control it totally.''
Among economists, there is little consensus about what should be done. Some say leave the dollar alone, some argue for the Western trading partners to meet once again to orchestrate another round of dollar-bashing, while some even call for a return to fixed exchange rates.
For instance, Richard Rahn, the chief economist of the Chamber of Commerce and a former economic adviser to President Bush during the 1988 campaign, recommends that the dollar ''be treated with benign neglect'' while the Federal Reserve expands the money supply to steadily reduce interest rates and keep the economy growing - which would helpbring the dollar down.
Others, like Mr. Dornbusch of M.I.T., call for central bank intervention and a session by the Western nations to set up a strategy similar to the 1985 meeting that led to the Plaza accord. This was the first concerted effort by the U.S.'s trading partners to depress the dollar.
Robert Mundell, a Columbia University economist, is one who proposes that the trading nations agree on a fixed and stable level for the dollar - perhaps at its current level - rather than letting it operate on a roller coaster of uncertainty.
One taste of that uncertainty came Friday when the dollar went on a wild ride, rising in the morning to equal 2 marks and 149 yen on news of improved trade statistics. It then fell to 1.93 marks and 144.4 yen on unfounded reports that several banks had run into trouble.
Aside from such daily blips, the big worry is that inaction over a rising dollar could spell economic trouble ahead. Mr. Bergsten, of the Institute for International Economics, estimates that the dollar's rise could cause the current account balance - which measures trade in goods and services - to increase to a $200 billion deficit in two years, up from the current $125 billion deficit. The fall in exports could fuel unemployment: The auto, steel, textile, aluminum and paper industries are all vulnerable to keeping their goods priced competitively in the world marketplace.
Ultimately, a rising dollar, says Mr. Bergsten, could plunge the nation into a recession. It could also reignite protectionist pressures in Congress and discredit the central banks' attempts to manage exchange rates.
''This is the greatest single threat to our continued economic expansion,'' Mr. Bergsten said. ''Such a significant deterioration of our trade could drag down the whole economy.''
Despite these gloomy warnings, a strong dollar isn't all bad. In part, it is a vote of confidence in the American economy, which has remained stable and growing for nearly eight years.
To foreign eyes, America looks like a good bet, for now. Interest rates remain high relative to those in other countries and act as a beacon to foreign investors. And the political disarray in China and Eastern Europe, coupled with the crises in leadership in Japan and West Germany, highlight America's role as a ''safe haven'' for money.
In fact, so much money has flowed into the United States in the last year that the dollar rose despite a recent decline in short-term interest rates. This inflow has invigorated the country's financial markets. It pumped up the stock market after the October 1987 crash, offsetting the flight of retail investors. Foreign investors have also bid up fixed-income securities, which, in turn, has helped moderate interest rates in general on many forms of debt, like mortgages.
And foreign money is behind a steady buying spree of physical assets. Just last week, a Japanese bank bought a primary dealer of Government securities from Kleinwort Benson. Another said it was negotiating to buy the business lending unit of the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation.
Some economists argue that the United States should take advantage of this foreign capital to improve America's productive base. As stock prices rise, for instance, corporations can issue more equity to fund new plants and equipment.
''We should take foreign financial capital and turn it into real physical capital with productive potential,'' said Neil Soss, chief economist at The First Boston Corporation. ''This would build a better base for production and exports, which would be an insurance policy when their willingness to finance us is not as great.''
Despite the trade imbalance, exports have actually been growing by about 20 percent annually over the last few years. This has slightly reducedthe trade deficit. But economists say most of that progress stems from the dramatic fall in the dollar following the intervention orchestrated by the Plaza accord and at a subsequent session at the Louvre in 1987.
''We're seeing the last hurrah of improvement in our competitiveness from when the dollar came down through 1987,'' said William Cline, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics. ''We're seeing a rare period of very misleading signals from the trade data coming in.''
Few economists believe exports will continue to expand significantly without a still lower dollar. And that is unlikely without a cut in the nation's budget deficit. To finance the debt, the Government issues billions in Treasury securities, which pushes up interest rates. As foreigners buy Treasury securities, the trade balance worsens.
But with President Bush's ''read my lips'' campaign promise of no new taxes and with many in Congress unwilling to make sweeping budget cuts, few expect much movement on the deficit. ''The Bush Administration seems unwilling to confront the budget problem seriously,'' said I. M. Destler, an economist at the University of Maryland.
Compounding the problem is the Administration's fear of inflation. With the economy operating at nearly full employment, many fear that any near-term reduction in interest rates would stimulate the economy and lead to wage and price inflation. ''The Federal Reserve is not going to push the dollar down with low interest rates until it sees something on the fiscal front, and he is right,'' said Mr. Dornbusch of M.I.T.
And the Administration cannot count on the nation's trading partners to lend a hand without pressure. Western European countries and Japan, whose economies have been growing reasonably well and where interest rates are rising slightly, are less than eager to push up their domestic interest rates and undercut their own economic health to help make American goods more competitive in their countries.
''They need a domestic case for acting. They don't just change because of foreign exchange pressures in the United States,'' said Scott E. Pardee, vice chairman of Yamaichi International and a former Federal Reserve official.
In contrast to the Treasury officials of the Reagan and Carter Administrations, who were vocal dollar bashers, the Bush Administration has remained mum about its plans for the dollar. A spokesman for the Treasury Department declined to comment on its recent rise. ''This is an unusual situation and one that we stay away from commenting on,'' said Robert Levine, a Treasury spokesman. ''No matter what we say, it has an effect on the market. They look to see how we are breathing and then the market goes haywire.''

GRAPHIC: Graph of trade weighted-average exchange value of the dollar, 1985-1989 (Source: Prudential-Bache Economic Group) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); GERMAN MARK (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); SALES FIGURES (61%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE



408 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEW IN THE COIN TRADE;
A Rush of Investors Cause Hobbyists to Flee

BYLINE: By MARK HENRICKS; Mark Henricks is a writer based in Irving, Tex.

 BODY:
When George B. Berk opened a rare coin shop in Canton, Ohio, in 1979, the necessary skills for his job included a horse trader's bent for negotiating, an encyclopedic knowledge of coinage and an artist's eye for appraising a coin's quality and esthetic appeal.
But like most of the nation's 2,000 or so coin dealerships, his business has radically changed over the last three years as the industry has moved to cater to a new breed of collector: the investor. During the late 70's, droves of investors bought tangible assets like coins because they rapidly appreciate during high inflationary times. 
While hobbyists hoard their coins, perhaps for a lifetime, investors readily trade them and have driven up prices considerably since their entry. Salomon Brothers Inc. says that, with a compound annual rate of return of 12.9 percent a year for the last 10 years, its index of rare coins has outperformed all other of its investment indexes but those made up of stocks.
To accommodate the new rush of coin trading, dealers have been forced to standardize their practices. Rather than determine the value of coins by haggling with collectors, many dealers rely on third parties to grade and hermetically seal coins in plastic holders, known as slabs. Third-party certification enables coins to trade sight unseen on the American Numismatic Exchange. Formed by a group of dealers in 1986, the exchange provides member dealers with bid and ask quotes electronically and adds liquidity to the market.
Still, some serious collectors have been turned off by the investor mentality of the coin market. Since the early 80's, the American Numismatic Association, a group of collectors based in Colorado Springs, said it has lost a third of its 50,000 members - mostly collectors. In the last year, several thousand new members, mostly investors, have joined the club, said Stephen L. Bobbitt, a spokesman for the group. ''All the mystery has been taken out of collecting,'' Mr. Berk complained. ''In a way, it's taken all the fun out of it.''
Yet the industry fears that without the stability of a large core of collectors and hobbyists, the coin market will grow ever more volatile. Price swings are already more severe than ever. For instance, they spiked sharply this year on the news that big Wall Street brokerages were setting up funds for investing solely in rare coins. Although speculators viewed the move as a vote of confidence in stocks, the brokerage houses' abilities to dump millions of dollars in coins onto the market in a day could add to the market's volatility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SALOMON BROTHERS INC (69%); 

SUBJECT: NUMISMATICS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES COINS & COINAGE (95%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (90%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); 

PERSON: HENRICKS, MARK



409 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2770 words

HEADLINE: Now It's Bob Horton's Turn at B.P.

BYLINE: By STEVEN PROKESCH

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
Listen to Bob Horton talk and you might easily mistake him for a Wall Street trader or a corporate bust-up artist. His eyes light up as he confesses his love for ''active asset trading'' and ''swaps.'' There is joy in his voice as he discusses ''doing an arbitrage'' and ''making money by betting on the difference between your view and somebody else's.''
But don't let the vocabulary fool you. The use of those techniques is one reason why the British Petroleum Company is in its best shape in decades - and why Robert M. Horton in March will become the next chairman and chief executive of the world's third-largest oil company.
The man that he will replace - Sir Peter Walters, who is retiring at age 58 - had to worry about curing B.P.'s ills during much of his eight-year tenure. B.P.'s European refining and petrochemicals operations were plagued by overcapacity and inefficiency. There were problems galore at the Standard Oil Company of Ohio, in which B.P. had long held a majority stake. There was all that diversification out of oil to deal with. And then the Kuwaitis managed to take advantage of the 1987 stock market crash to grab 21.6 percent of B.P. 
Sir Peter gave the 50-year-old Mr. Horton and other members of top management the green light to wheel and deal their way out of the morass. As a result, Mr. Horton now faces the happy prospect of being able to focus for the most part on building upon B.P.'s considerable strengths in its core businesses: oil and gas production, refining and marketing, and petrochemicals.
''B.P. is highly focused and its management is almost obsessed with efficiency,'' said Nicholas J. Clayton, an industry analyst at Smith New Court Securities in London.
Armed with the command from Sir Peter that ''there are no sacred cows'' and employing a type of financial analysis that was foreign to B.P., Sir Peter's team sorted through B.P.'s vast empire and focused the company on what it did best.
In the past three years alone, that exercise resulted in nearly $21 billion worth of acquisitions and divestitures - not including a $1.31 billion sale of oil and gas properties announced last Thursday.
Even before last week's announcements, 1989 had been a busy year for British Petroleum. Its deals included the $3.7 billion sale of most of its minerals business, including the Kennecott Corporation; the sale of 2.5 percent of its Prudhoe Bay production in Alaska for $515 million; the sale of a minority stake in its Magnus Field in the North Sea for $265 million; the divestiture of some specialty chemicals businesses for $160 million, and the $4.2 billion purchase of a large portion of Kuwait's B.P. stake.
Still more deals are pending: the auctioning off of the coal business, which is expected to fetch $600 million to $700 million; the sale of an Australian copper and uranium mine for an estimated $600 million, and the sale of some London real estate for at least $200 million.
Analysts and B.P. insiders also would not be surprised to see the company divest its animal feed business, the only remaining major business outside of oil and chemicals. That could fetch $1 billion or so, analysts say.
To be sure, selling ailing or non-essential businesses and buying ones that complement core businesses is nothing new, either in the oil industry or in industry as a whole. But B.P. executives, with their self-described passion for ''extracting value,'' have demonstrated a remarkable ability to do just that.
 
Good Timing
 The waited, for instance, until metals prices were high before selling most of their minerals business: the deal, which was completed this summer, netted them a $416 million profit. They have shown similar savvy in their acquisitions. Britoil, the North Sea oil company that B.P. bought for $4.2 billion last year, would cost 50 percent more if bought today, according to Paul Spedding, an analyst here at Kleinwort Benson Securities Ltd.
Although these mega-deals have produced the biggest headlines, the smaller deals really capture the management style that Sir Peter created - and which Mr. Horton makes clear will continue. ''I'm all in favor of creative ways of getting to a stronger physical asset base,'' said Mr. Horton, an engineer by training who has spent 32 years at B.P.
If an asset of peripheral importance to B.P. is more valuable to a competitor who has something that B.P. might want, then a trade might be considered. Whether it is swapping gas stations in America with Mobil or forming a refinery joint venture with Texaco in Rotterdam to cut costs or selling a stake in Alaskan or North Sea oil production to someone with a more bullish view of oil prices, B.P. executives are constantly on the lookout for ways to improve their competitive position and profits.
John Browne, B.P.'s exploration and production chief, is considered to be brilliant in spotting such situations. One idea of his that generated envy in the industry was selling units in the production from B.P.'s prized Forties Field that had appealing tax advantages for companies exploring in the British sector of the North Sea. The 1984 sale of the 9.8 percent stake yielded B.P. a handsome profit.
Last May, Mr. Browne struck again: B.P. sold 2.5 percent of its Prudhoe Bay production in the form of royalty trust units. According to company insiders, the deal netted the company $1.50 more a barrel than it could otherwise have got.
''If you look at B.P. and what it's doing, it's acting like a role model'' for others in the oil industry, said Mr. Clayton, the analyst. ''They're all now talking about active-asset trading and extracting value for shareholders.''
For their part, top B.P. executives make it clear that they are no complacent bunch. All talk with envy of the company's archrival, the larger Royal Dutch/Shell. Calling Shell ''an enormously powerful company,'' Sir Peter said: ''We don't rate with Shell's financials over all. We are Avis to their Hertz.''
B.P.'s chemicals business, which had operating profits of $915 million last year on sales of $5.8 billion, has gone from about the worst of the big companies in the industry in 1980 to one of the best in profitability. But the marketing and refining operation, which had an operating profit of less than $1.4 billion on revenues of $29.8 billion in 1988, is not yet up to snuff, B.P. executives say.
And while B.P. has one of the better exploration records in the industry, the company's leaders obviously think there is room for improvement. The announcements on Thursday made that clear.
First, the company unveiled a restructuring of its exploration and production operation. Those changes are aimed at both lowering overhead costs by $150 million a year and making the operation more entrepreneurial so B.P. can find more oil in so-called frontier areas. Clearly, the company that helped discover the vast oil fields of Persia, the North Sea and Alaska has not forgotten its roots.
 
The Latest Deal
 The company also struck a deal the same day to sell exploration and production assets, most in the North Sea, for $1.31 billion to the Dallas-based Oryx Energy Company. Last year's Britoil acquisition made B.P. the dominant player in the British sector of the North Sea. Indeed, B.P.'s holdings there are so vast that it had more than it needed - a main reason for the deal with Oryx.
And because of tax features in the deal, Oryx could afford to pay a relatively high price for the reserves.
Mr. Horton and his lieutenants have plenty of plans for the money from all the sales and the billions that the company could be able to borrow.
They would like to see B.P. increase its presence in Australia and East Asia: a slew of projects, ranging from a new liquid natural gas operation in Australia to chemical plants in East Asia, are either under way or in negotiations.
Given the economic growth rate in that part of the world, ''a successful company ignores it at its peril,'' Mr. Horton said the other day in his office in the Britannic House, B.P.'s London headquarters.
Then there are ambitions to become much bigger in natural gas, where Exxon and Royal Dutch/Shell dwarf B.P. Mr. Horton shares the view of many other industry executives that for both energy-supply and environmental reasons, clean-burning natural gas is about to come into its own.
And many of Mr. Horton's plans involve the United States, where he spent two years turning around the Standard Oil Company of Ohio, now B.P. America - an achievement that undoubtedly helped him win B.P.'s top job.
Alaska in general and the giant Prudhoe Bay field on Alaska's North Slope in particular will continue to be one of B.P.'s most important sources of income for the foreseeable future. Even so, Mr. Horton would like to see the company become a much more important player in the Gulf of Mexico. In recent Government auctions, B.P. was the top bidder for 35 of 46 tracts in the gulf.
Mr. Horton is also talking about greatly expanding B.P.'s presence in refining and marketing on the West Coast. B.P. established a foothold there last year, when it swapped some of its service stations in the Northeast, Michigan and Florida for Mobil stations in the Northwest and bought a Mobil refinery there.
And while B.P. is a leader in the polyethylene business in Europe, ''we're weak in the United States'' in that petrochemical, Mr. Horton lamented. One possibility is waiting a year or two until the cyclical petrochemicals industry - and acquisition prices - comes down, said James H. Ross, president of B.P. America. Another is some ''novel form'' of alliance, Mr. Horton said.
 
Shares for America
 Mr. Horton also would like to see 15 to 20 percent of B.P.'s shares in American hands, up from the current 6 percent. The London Stock Exchange is just too small and acts as a ceiling on B.P.'s share price, he complains. To that end, B.P. has started paying dividends quarterly and issuing its earnings statements when the big American oil companies announce theirs. It would love to have its shares - rather than American depository receipts - trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
And making B.P. a familiar name to American investors is at least an important secondary reason B.P. is currently turning all of its 8,000 gas stations in the United States into B.P.-brand stations. The fact that major brands typically can charge 2 to 4 cents more a gallon is another.
All this interest in the United States is not surprising. Nearly half of B.P.'s assets are in the United States, thanks to its $7.7 billion buyout in 1987 of the minority stake in Sohio that it did not own. To obtain an American partner to develop Prudhoe Bay, B.P. had in 1969 swapped its share of the field for an eventual slim majority of Sohio. It was that deal that brought Mr. Horton to America. As the money poured in from Prudhoe Bay in the early 1980's, Cleveland-based Sohio, which had long been a respected regional refiner and marketer, suddenly found itself in the big leagues.
But its attempts to use the new riches to diversify and build an exploration and production operation worthy of a major oil company were - to be kind - less than impressive.
In 1986, Mr. Horton got the job of cleaning up the mess. He had already proved himself by turning around B.P.'s European chemicals business in the early 1980's. He did that by closing 20 plants, slashing staff and focusing B.P. on commodity chemicals in which it had an edge in technology and market share.
The pattern was repeated in America, with the help of B.P. veterans like John Browne, who overhauled the exploration and production operation, and Colin Webster, who focused on research, chemicals and minerals.
Mr. Horton, who obviously likes Americans, has played a major role in integrating B.P.'s American staff into the rest of B.P. There are 120 Americans working at Britannic House, and Americans are also climbing the ladder. B.P.'s treasurer and its controller are Americans. And in the last round of promotions, an American was named managing director of B.P.'s Australian business.
One way B.P. benefited from the exchange was in marketing, which had never been B.P.'s strong suit. ''Sohio has always been a superb marketing company,'' Mr. Horton said.
But noting that there are also more than 100 non-Americans working at B.P. America in Cleveland, Mr. Horton emphasizes that talent is what matters at B.P. ''What we are trying to create is a truly transnational corporation in which the only qualification for success is experience and merit,'' he said.
Most analysts think highly of Mr. Horton and the rest of B.P.'s management. Still, analysts tend to be up or down on B.P., depending on whether they think oil prices are going to rise or not. That is because B.P., in industry parlance, is ''upstream top-heavy'' - meaning it depends much more on its exploration and production operations for sales and profits than its major competitors do.
Those companies have relatively bigger ''downstream'' operations - petrochemicals, refining and marketing - whose profits rise when oil prices drop.
 
No Apologies
 Last year, B.P.'s upstream business accounted for 47.8 percent of its total operating profit of $5.1 billion, and 22.5 percent of total revenues of $46.1 billion.
Although their ambitions to expand in chemicals and refining and marketing show that B.P.'s leaders would not mind more balance, they certainly are not defensive about being top-heavy. The memory of having B.P.'s vast operations in Iran, Kuwait, Libya and Nigeria nationalized have obviously not faded.
Sir Peter finds it ''a paradox that B.P. has been criticized for being a two-pipeline company,'' referring to its dependence on the North Sea and Alaska's North Slope. ''You can turn that around and say that represents 80 percent of our company's considerable reserves being in the most politically and economically safe environments in the world,'' he said.
Still, B.P.'s problem at the moment is that production at Prudhoe Bay in Alaska and the Forties Field in the North Sea is now declining. That means that B.P.'s total production - now about 1.6 million barrels a day - will slip next year, although it is then expected to turn up again as new fields come on stream in the North Sea. With costs rising, too, that means pressure on margins. That explains the restructuring of the exploration and production unit.
''The danger arises when you think that oil prices are going to get you out of a fix,'' Mr. Browne said.
There are other challenges, too. ''There is still refinery overcapacity in Europe,'' said Russell Seal, the head of refining and marketing. Ray R. Knowland, the head of the chemicals business who will become a B.P. managing director in March, is worried that the European Community might lower tariffs on petrochemicals, opening the door to a flood of cheap petrochemicals from the Persian Gulf states.
In the wake of the Exxon Valdez spill in Alaska, tougher environmental measures were implemented that raised B.P.'s productions costs there by $50 million, and the repeal of a tax measure favorable to the oil industry hit it with another $100 million bill. Then there is the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, where B.P., among others, would love to drill. Before the Exxon spill, Mr. Ross, B.P. America's president, had hoped that the industry might gain Federal permission to drill there this year. Now it will be at least several years, he said.
Still, these are minor problems compared with the major ones that buffeted the company throughout much of the 1980's. ''I've left a company with few if any weaknesses and a whole range of options to build the company's strength in the next decade,'' Sir Peter said.
 
AT A GLANCE
British Petroleum
 
All dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data. Exchange rate from pounds to dollars are those in effect during the time periods presented. 

$	 	 	Three months ended	 	 	June 30	 1989	 1988	 Revenues	 $11,340,000	 $12,493,000	Net Income	 541,000	 683,000	Earnings per share	 $1.07	 $1.42	 	 	 	Year ended	 	 	 Dec. 31	 1988	 1987	 Revenues	 $46,141,000	 $46,458,000	 Net Income	 2,558,000	 2,145,000	 Earnings per share	 $5.06	 $4.61	 

$	 	 	 	Total assets, Dec. 31, 1988	 $53,075,000	 Current assets	 12,826,000	 Current liabilities	 14,440,000	 Long-term debt	 8,804,000	 Stock price, Sept. 15, 1989	 	London Exchange close	 4.88	 Stock price, 52-week range	 3.63-5.04	 Employees, June 30, 1989	 120,500	 Headquarters	 London		 	
GRAPHIC: Robert Horton, B.P.'s next chairman (NYT/Jonathan Player) (pg. 1); photos of a gas drilling platform being installed in the North Sea and a new gasoline station in London (NYT/Jonathan Player) (pg.10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (57%); BP (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (60%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (60%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NORTH SEA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD OIL CO (68%); KENNECOTT CORP (60%); BP PLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH PETROLEUM CO PLC

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (75%); PETROCHEMICALS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (72%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); 

PERSON: PROKESCH, STEVEN; HORTON, ROBERT M PETER INGRAM WALTERS (56%); 



410 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FORUM: TOMORROW'S TELEVISION;
It Will Be Hard to Make Money

BYLINE: By J. MICHEL GUITE; J. Michel Guite is a vice president and technology equipment analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc.

 BODY:
The high-definition television picture could use some clarification with regard to its likely roll-out schedule and its prospects for strengthening American-owned consumer electronics manufacturers. My view is that HDTV will take longer to become widely available than most people think and that it will not alter the decline of the American consumer electronics industry. HDTV has, however, been helpful in focusing attention on the need for an American industrial policy. I am cautious about HDTV for three reasons: First, HDTV will take longer to become widely available than many people expect. A review of the pace of introduction of color TV as an enhancement of black-and-white TV, or of FM radio as an enhancement of AM radio, shows that these successful technologies took four to five years, from initial commercial availability to about 1 percent penetration. To reach over 50 percent of households, took another 10 years. Video cassette recorders, show a similar pattern.
Successful consumer product revolutions in the United States take 10 to 15 years on average. In my view, HDTV will probably not achieve a 1 percent penetration level before 1995, and will not be widely implemented in a majority of homes until 8 to 10 years later. 
Second, improved TV picture clarity will arrive via several different technologies. I see a reasonable prospect for fully distinct American, Japanese, and European HDTV standards, with American standard-setting delayed until at least 1991. Furthermore, I see existing American conventional TV as a moving and improving target for HDTV to compete against.
Part of the opportunity that HDTV enthusiasts point to - for more video memory, faster digital signal processors and analog/digital converters - will also be driven by enhancements to conventional TV.
Third, HDTV manufacturing will almost certainly continue to be dominated by the existing non-American worldwide consumer electronics leaders. Over the last 40 years, American-owned manufacturers have seen their domestic market share decline from nearly 100 percent to less than 15 percent. There is no reason to believe this decline will be reversed without changes in the way Americans do business and in the way those business are regulated and protected.
HDTV in the United States could enhance some opportunities for the Zenith Electronics Corporation, and it could fuel downstream product development for North American semiconductor, telecommunications equipment and flat-panel display manufacturers. Texas Instruments Inc.'s announcement last week that it will license technology from NHK, Japan's public television company, will enhance Texas Instruments' component sales in Japan and the United States.
But the principal beneficiaries of HDTV will likely be the vertically integrated worldwide consumer electronics leaders - Sony, NEC, Mitsubishi, Philips and others. This outcome results from a condition of open international trade and investment flows, and from worldwide market share expansion won by the most competitive producers.
HDTV has been used in Washington to help focus attention on the need for a stronger industrial policy. A number of groups - including former President Reagan's Commission on Industrial Competitiveness, the M.I.T. Commission on Industrial Competitiveness and more recently the Electronics Industries Association's Advanced Television Committee - have advocated policies to reverse long-term declines in American manufacturing productivity and world trade. These analyses emphasize the need for economy-wide, rather than piecemeal policies. Recommendations include incentives to encourage a longer-term investment focus by managers and shareholders; open world trade with simultaneous reciprocal market access; reduced deficits and increased savings to bring down interest rates and cost of capital; improved translation of basic research into products, and improved efficiency in manufacturing.
Significant enhancements in TV picture clarity, and in larger and more lightweight flat-panel TV displays, lie ahead in the 1990's. These improvements will likely be introduced on several competing products. Some may be implemented in what we now call HDTV and others on conventional TV.
Meanwhile, the current widespread interest in HDTV can help focus attention on the need for an American industrial policy. An industrial policy needs to assist the most productive American manufacturing sectors. This includes semiconductors, telecommunications equipment, instrumentation and computers. Such a policy should help these companies compete on the basis of merit, price, reliability and service for greater worldwide market share.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (82%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (82%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (82%); ZENITH ELECTRONICS CORP (63%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV); FORECASTS; INDUSTRY PROFILES HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (92%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (92%); ELECTRONICS (90%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (75%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (74%); MARKET SHARE (73%); DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCESSING (73%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (65%); SEMICONDUCTORS (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: GUITE, J MICHAEL



411 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: THE EXECUTIVE COMPUTER;
Beware Those Network Failures

BYLINE: By Peter H. Lewis

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
The number of companies that have tied their personal computers into local area networks, or LAN's, is growing rapidly, and a new study has found that the networks function properly 94 percent of the time. But what about that other 6 percent - those times when the network fails? The study, released at the Networld trade show here last week, found that the LAN failures are a bigger problem than many people think. In fact, they can cost a large corporation an average of $3.48 million in losses each year.
The study by Infonetics Inc., a Santa Clara, Calif., market research and consulting firm that specializes in computer networking issues, is believed to be the first to put a dollar amount on the losses caused by ''downtime'' at the largest users of local area networks. 
''As LAN's become a larger part of the business world, with more companies putting their 'mission critical' applications on networks, the 6 percent failure rate becomes a bigger part of a company's bottom line losses,'' said Stephen A. Spanier, vice president of Infonetics.
As an indication of the growing importance of LAN's, the Networld trade show here attracted more than 20,000 computer professionals, ranging from small-business owners to the information services directors of the largest international corporations. More than 150 companies displayed their networking hardware and software products.
Networking is one of the fastest-growing segments of the computer industry. The International Data Corporation, a consulting company based in Framingham, Mass., estimates that 10.5 million personal computers, or 26 percent of the PC's now in use, are hooked together in LAN's. By 1992, the company forecasts, that percentage should rise to nearly 50 percent, or 28.6 million PC's.
Another research company, Dataquest of San Jose, Calif., estimates that companies spent $4.8 billion last year on network hardware and software, an increase of 88 percent from 1987. Twenty-three of the 100 companies surveyed had annual revenues of more than $1 billion, and all had at least 300 computers or other devices linked directly on a network. The study has implications for small business as well, since networks are spreading so quickly.
Companies rely on networked computers for such critical tasks as inventory management, electronic funds transfer, and electronic data interchange, in which standard business transactions are handled via computer instead of on paper. The networks are seen as strategic weapons that can give a company a competitive edge. But if a company - even a small one - loses the ability to conduct a part of its business, to send out invoices, for instance, the losses can be substantial.
''It's a major revenue maker,'' said Mike Powell, microsystems manager for Telcom USA, the fourth-largest long-distance carrier. ''If we lose it, we lose money.''
But local area networks are relatively fragile things, as anyone who has worked on one will attest. Indeed, an experimental network set up to demonstrate products at the Networld show, crashed the first morning. Nearly 40 companies had hooked up their products in the network. The network's failure underscored another trend that is making network management more difficult.
In the early days of computing, businesses bought all of their computer equipment from a single company, like the International Business Machines Corporation or the Digital Equipment Corporation. Today, businesses buy their networking products from a variety of vendors, and that can lead to conflicts of networking protocols, operating systems and other esoteric functions.
''The trend away from from single-vendor LAN's means there are more rough edges, and more places for things to go wrong,'' said Harry Saal, president of Network General Inc., a company that makes network diagnostic equipment. Network General commissioned the Infonetics study.
Networks can also fail for simple reasons, Mr. Saal said. A worker in one department could accidentally plug the wrong diskette into a PC and bring down the system, or someone could kick out a plug. A software glitch might accidentally tie up the system, causing response times to slow.
Mr. Spanier said the companies in the study, which included 100 of the biggest users of computer networks, had an average of 23.6 network failures a year, with an average downtime of 4.9 hours each.
The Infonetics study determined that even relatively brief network failures at large companies can result in major losses. The losses were calculated for lost revenue, lost productivity, and direct expenses for maintaining and upgrading networks.
Even a slowdown in the network's operation can be costly if highly paid executives and information workers have to wait three hours to do a job that normally takes one hour. Slow response time is the most common network ailment, but it is usually not reported as a network failure.
All too often, the Infonetics study concluded, companies try to fix network problems by adding more horsepower: faster file servers, speedier disks, brawnier software, more nodes. The companies in the Infonetics study spent an average of $650,000 a year for such performance upgrades. Theirsystems became more complex and even more prone to failure. ''A lot of hardware costs are wasteful; they are well-meaning but inappropriate,'' Mr. Saal said.
Beyond network analyzers, like Network General's Sniffer or Novell-Excelan's LANalyzer, which can reduce network failures by nearly half, according to the Infonetics study, there are other strategies.
The study found that although productivity losses at the average company were measured in millions of dollars, the companies spent an average of just $60,000 a year to manage the networks, primarily for hiring consultants or LAN management personnel.
Mr. Saal of Network General and Mr. Spanier of Infonetics stressed developing an adequate staff of trained network managers. ''LAN managers today are overworked, but companies are under tremendous pressure to keep staffing costs down,'' Mr. Saal said. ''Networks are changing and growing very rapidly, but how can you send a guy off for the network training he needs when he's always busy putting out fires?
''With losses already more than $3 million a year, saving money on the network staff is a false economy,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (83%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (68%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (83%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) LOCAL AREA NETWORKS (92%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (65%); ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H ANN LIVERMORE (92%); 



412 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2663 words

HEADLINE: RJR's Brave New World

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Last week was not a happy one in the ''junk bond'' market. As the Campeau Corporation's highly leveraged empire started to crumble, fears - some might even say panic - about the fate of other companies that had gone private through junk bond-financed leveraged buyouts swept Wall Street. Junk bond prices plummeted, dragging down even bonds that analysts had thought safe.
Not surprisingly, a lot of eyes turned to RJR Nabisco Inc., the giant food and tobacco company that Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company took private four months ago in the biggest buyout in history. RJR's bonds have moved down along with the rest of the market, raising the big question: Can any company really handle $25 billion in debt?
RJR's early signs have been stellar - increased operating earnings, a flurry of new products, an effective cost-cutting program. But will that make the RJR deal a success? Or are Campeau's problems a harbinger of troubles at RJR? 
Wall Street, apparently, still sees RJR as a good bet - the prices on RJR's bonds have not dropped nearly as sharply as they have on other issues. And Louis V. Gerstner Jr., the 47-year-old former American Express executive who signed on as RJR's new chief in April, exudes confidence. ''Yes, there is life, even excitement, after an LBO,'' he said.
But post-buyout life is not easy for RJR. The sale of its European food businesses, of Chun King and, most recently, of Del Monte has made the company even more dependent on tobacco and baked goods. Yet the tobacco unit, whose cash-gushing ability is one of the cornerstones on which RJR's debt service is built, continues to lose domestic share, particularly to the Philip Morris Companies.
RJR's cookie and cracker business is still dominant in its markets, but some analysts question whether the debt-ridden company will have the resources to keep it growing. And Mr. Gerstner and his new management team have discharged so many people - 300 at Atlanta headquarters, another few hundred at Nabisco Brands and 1,640 people at the tobacco company - that the remaining workers are in shock.
''We're getting a lot of calls from their workers and if ever there was an ideal opportunity to organize them, it is now,'' said Joseph D. Masterson, international vice president of the Bakery, Confectionery and Tobacco Workers International Union, which represents workers at every American tobacco company except RJR's R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company unit.
Cash, of course, remains the biggest question mark. For now, the tobacco company continues to spew forth profit. And RJR got $2.5 billion, considered top dollar, for the five European food businesses it sold in June. But the $2.3 billion or so that RJR will probably get when the recent deals to sell the various chunks of Del Monte are finalized is about $500 million below what the company is said to have expected.
If interest rates soar, if the bond market plunges lower or if tobacco sales decline more, RJR may have to cut a lot further into bone than Kohlberg, Kravis had bargained for.
''I wouldn't be surprised if they have to sell Planter's,'' said one former RJR executive, referring to the RJR nut and snack division that, to date, has not been rumored to be on the chopping block.
Charles E. Hugel, chairman of Combustion Engineering Inc. and RJR's former non-executive chairman, has deeper worries. ''I am concerned about their ability to fund modernization, research, all the future-oriented things,'' he said. ''A lot will depend on what happens to interest rates, and on how well they stem their slide in tobacco.''
 
Different Signals
 Still, it is hard to forecast doom at RJR. ''A lot of people said that RJR, because of its size, would be the LBO that shows the system has gone too far,'' noted Harbir Singh, an associate professor of management at the Wharton School. ''Instead, it is showing clear signs of working out.''
Indeed, while RJR posted a loss in net income in the second quarter because of the huge debt expense, operating income before good will amortization was up 24 percent, to $848 million, from the second quarter of last year, on an increase of just 4 percent in net sales. Management layers have been slashed, and many of the perks are gone: six of the 11 corporate jets have been sold, limousine bills have been halved, the corporate apartment in Manhattan's posh Essex House is no more.
''We are running to the bone,'' said H. John Greeniaus, chief executive of Nabisco Brands Inc. ''Before, we might have lived with 5 percent fat.''
But the austerity efforts have not been indiscriminate. Nabisco Brands, for example, expects to spend $350 million on marketing this year, the same level as in 1988. And although introducing new products means huge marketing costs, RJR has been sending them flying out the door - nine new items from the Planter's division last month, 12 from the Nabisco Biscuit Company this month and a cigarette called Chelsea, which supposedly yields a nice-smelling smoke, now in test markets.
''Everyone assumes our motivation for everything is the LBO, but most of what we're doing needed to be done before,'' said Mr. Gerstner. James W. Johnston, the new Reynolds Tobacco chief, agrees. ''The changes were not driven just by a need to save money but by a need to build a stronger company,'' he said.
To be sure, RJR had a lot going for it to ease the buyout path. More than half its profits come from tobacco, which is traditionally recession-proof and thus can hedge against any worst-case economic scenario.
''That tobacco company has a great enough cash flow to let RJR weather any interest rate turn-ups,'' said Edward J. Robinson, the former chief financial officer who left RJR in March to join Avon Products Inc. Moreover, Edward A. Horrigan Jr., who ran Reynolds Tobacco until he, too, resigned in March, says that since 1980 RJR has pumped close to $2 billion into upgrading its tobacco plants. ''The modernization program was fundamentally complete before the LBO,'' he said.
 
Easier to Dismantle
 Structurally, too, RJR was well positioned for selling assets to pay down debt. It has long been decentralized, which made it easier to lop off businesses without wrenching those that remained. And well-known brands are commanding premiums these days, so it has got good prices for most of its divestitures. ''RJR was never an unwieldy conglomeration of things like Beatrice,'' said Gailen L. Hite, a finance professor at the Columbia Business School.
On Wall Street, cares about whether RJR is typical or unusual among buyouts pale next to two concerns: How well are its bonds faring now? And what will the company look like on May 1, 1993, when holders of its debt securities have the option of converting to equity? On both counts, analysts are optimistic. ''RJR is a very well-positioned food company and a reasonably well-positioned tobacco company generating tremendous growth and profits and cash flow,'' said Kurt A. Feuerman, an analyst at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. Despite last week's troubles in the junk bond market, Mr. Feuerman is sticking with his buy recommendation on the senior converting debentures of the RJR Holdings Corporation - the official name for RJR Nabisco's parent company.
Edward P. Mally, Salomon Brothers' junk bond analyst, is also still recommending RJR paper. ''The cash-generating ability of this company is such that it can both pay debt and support growth,'' he said.
Sustaining the cash flow depends upon the adroitness with which RJR's new management team addresses the company's problems. And on the surface, Mr. Gerstner seems a strange choice to lead the charge.
He has never been a chief executive before. He has had little packaged-goods experience. And his former company, American Express, is a money machine, where a manager can generally count on virtually infinite resources - a luxury that RJR, with its debt load, cannot afford.
But those who know Mr. Gerstner say he is a quick study. ''The pharmaceutical business is pretty far away from financial services, too, but he has made a substantial contribution just by asking the right questions,'' said Richard M. Furlaud, chairman of the Squibb Corporation, on whose board Mr. Gerstner sits. G. Richard Thoman, chief executive of American Express International, calls Mr. Gerstner ''an incredible strategist who, in a roomful of noise and opinion, will say the three sentences that crystallize where we have to go.''
Smart or not, Mr. Gerstner is in for a rough time. Most of RJR's top management team had been cronies of F. Ross Johnson, Mr. Gerstner's predecessor, and many had joined Mr. Johnson in an earlier, abortive attempt to take RJR private. After Mr. Johnson was forced to resign, there was little doubt that the rest of his team would leave, or be pushed.
And so it happened. Just weeks after RJR announced Mr. Gerstner's appointment in March, Mr. Horrigan and Mr. Robinson jumped ship. They were closely followed by the general counsel, the controller, the treasurer and assorted lower-level managers. ''I had to rebuild my entire team at the same time that I was trying to understand a company of gigantic scale,'' Mr. Gerstner recalled.
 
Emotional Chaos
 RJR, meanwhile, was in emotional chaos. It went through enormous upheaval four years ago, when R. J. Reynolds Tobacco merged with Nabisco Brands, and Mr. Johnson, then Nabisco's chief, superimposed a fast-paced culture on what had been a sleepy, Southern company. Now, trauma was upon RJR again. Every RJR employee knew that assets would be sold and jobs eliminated to finance the buyout. But no one knew whose job or division would disappear.
There were more subtle psychological problems, too. Not only had Mr. Johnson tried to take the company private at a fraction of its worth, he had later offered a game plan for a higher bid that would have entailed cutting the benefits of much of the rank-and-file work force. Employees inevitably began to wonder, if their chief executive could betray them so easily, and if Kohlberg, Kravis could earmark billions of dollars of assets as unnecessary and thus saleable, was RJR ever as good as they had thought to begin with?
''This is a company that just a few years ago was ranked ninth on Fortune's most admired list, yet suddenly its whole raison d'etre was called into question,'' Mr. Gerstner said.
Mr. Gerstner was no calming influence. When he took over, there were 650 people on the corporate staff, ''literally hundreds more than fits my management style,'' he said. He dismissed about 300 of them almost immediately. And he announced that those who were left would be moved from Atlanta to New York City.
The speed with which that announcement came sent a new wave of shudders through the shell-shocked company, which Mr. Johnson had moved from Winston-Salem, N.C., to Atlanta just two years before. ''Everyone expected the company to move to New York, and most have accepted job loss as a part of modern corporate life,'' said W. G. Champion Mitchell, the former senior vice president of external affairs who left in March. ''But whenever a bunch of people are let go there is sadness.''
Still, current and former RJR employees say that the sadness did not translate into anger. ''We were treated fantastically well in terms of severance, and RJR provided outplacement,'' said one former executive who, with much of his staff, is out of a job. ''We really can't complain.''
 
Change in Tone
 Remaining employees may find more to gripe about. Anyone used to Mr. Johnson's low-key, affable style may find Mr. Gerstner a bit hard to take. ''Ross is a fun-loving, playful guy, easygoing and charming,'' Mr. Greeniaus said. ''Lou can be charming when he wants to be, but his attitude is, 'Hey, we're mature professionals and I don't have to go around stroking everyone.' ''
With most of the dismissals behind him and his management team rebuilt, Mr. Gerstner may have more chance to show his charming side.
Many of his new hires have experience germane to RJR. Mr. Johnston, the new tobacco chief, had been with Reynolds Tobacco for five years before joining Citibank in 1984. And Karl von der Heyden, the new chief financial officer, comes over from the H. J. Heinz Company, a food company certainly as prominent as Nabisco.
Already, Mr. Gerstner is looking to push more responsibility on all of them. ''Now it's hierarchical, with all the power coming out of me,'' he said. ''I want it to be more like spokes on a wheel, with me at the hub.''
The new team is now tackling the strategic issues facing RJR. For example, they have decided not to go after more share for Nabisco Brands, which already commands an impressive 44 percent of the market for biscuits, but to try to maintain existing share instead. That strategy has been adopted by many consumer products companies - the Colgate-Palmolive Company being a recent example - to general applause: to wit, going for incremental share points is often a profitless exercise.
Far deeper changes are needed at Reynolds Tobacco. The tobacco company is still reeling from last year's $150 million failure of its smokeless cigarette, Premier. Mr. Horrigan, for one, still believes that smokers, who overwhelmingly rejected Premier's taste, would have grown acclimated to the product in time, and that ''there will be a Premier-like product out there again.'' But at this point, no one can guarantee that it will be RJR's.
 
A Dwindling Share
 RJR has a more immediate problem: it continues to lose domestic market share. ''RJR has got to get unit sales up,'' said Roy D. Burry, a Kidder, Peabody & Company analyst.
That will be no easy task. Winston, RJR's flagship brand, has traditionally appealed to older smokers, who are quitting smoking in droves. And while the company hopes to push Camel into the young-adult market, most analysts say that Philip Morris's Marlboro owns that market. ''Philip Morris's sales force has revved up to high, while this takeover business has discombobulated RJR's,'' said Emanuel Goldman, an analyst with Paine Webber Inc.
Reynolds Tobacco is trying mightily to get its act back together. Since the buyout, it has consolidated all its domestic operations, and is experimenting with new ways to group workers into more productive teams. And it is phasing out trade loading, a costly but common industry practice of selling distributors more cigarettes than smokers are buying. The practice lets the tobacco companies move inventory, but it gives distributors the benefits of price increases.
Those moves, combined with a spurt in international sales and the plant modernizations, yielded a 16 percent increase in the tobacco company's operating income last quarter, over the same quarter of 1988. And Mr. Gerstner is predicting more of the same. ''We will generate the cash flow needed to bring the debt down enough so that we can again make acquisitions,'' Mr. Gerstner said.
Maybe so - but then again, maybe not. ''I remember the first year after KKR took Beatrice private, everyone said what a great deal it was,'' recalled a high-level executive at a rival buyout firm. ''When the dust settled, the sum of the parts wasn't any greater than the whole. Will RJR be better? It is too soon to tell.''
 
AT A GLANCE
 
RJR Nabisco
All dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data. 

$	 	 	Three months ended	 	 	 June 30	 1989	 1988	 Revenues	 $3,911,000	 $3,750,000	 Net Income	 (309,000)	 354,000	 Earnings per share	 --	 $1.50	 	 	 	 Year ended	 	 	 Dec. 31	 1988	 1987	 Revenues	 $16,956,000	 $15,766,000	 Net Income	 1,393,000	 1,209,000	 Earnings per share	 $5.92	 $4.70	 

$	 	 	 	Total assets, June 30, 1989	 $34,629,000	 Current assets	 6,045,000	 Current liabilities	 7,378,000	 Long-term debt	 22,279,000	 Employees, Aug. 31, 1989	 106,000	 Headquarters	 New York		 	
 
(Loss)

GRAPHIC: Charts of Rjr's debt costs, sales and operating costs, 2d qtr. 1988 and 1989 (Source' RJR Nabisco) (pg. 1); Louis V. Gerstner Jr., the new chief of RJR Nabisco (NYT/Don Hogan Charles) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (84%); KKR (NYSE) (71%); AXP (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (71%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (71%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (57%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (91%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (84%); KKR & CO LP (71%); R J REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO (60%); KRAFT NABISCO (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: RJR NABISCO INC; KOHLBERG KRAVIS ROBERTS & CO

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; STOCKS (CORPORATE) LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOING PRIVATE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BAKED GOODS (73%); NEW PRODUCTS (68%); BAKERIES (63%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H LOUIS V GERSTNER JR (55%); 



413 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
U.S.-Soviet Issues Are Overshadowed

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THERE is something accidentally symbolic about the fact that Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, will hold their ministerial meeting this week in a mountaintop lodge in Jackson Hole, Wyo. While this is not the first important diplomatic meeting to be held in an out-of-the-way place, this time the relative obscurity somehow befits the state of United States-Soviet relations.
It is not that the Soviet-American relationship is fading out in its importance to world affairs. Far from it. As long as the Soviet Union and the United States have nuclear arsenals, the state of their relationship will be critical. Moreover, the ideological and strategic competition between them may have abated, but it has not disappeared. 
Nevertheless, the issues that seem to be having the most impact on the world stage today have less to do with the Soviet-American relationship as such than with changes in the Eastern bloc.
''United States-Soviet relations strike me as second order of importance now,'' said Robert W. Tucker, professor of international relations at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
''One is hard put to imagine a step that could be taken at Jackson Hole, on arms control or any other issue, that would have a comparable impact on world affairs as the events in Eastern Europe and the potential disintegration of the Soviet empire,'' he said.
In fact, the changes in the Communist world seem to be influencing the United States-Soviet relationship more than the other way around. Judging from remarks by Soviet and American officials in advance of the Wyoming meeting, their immediate impact has been to throw the United States-Soviet relationship slightly out of step.
The failure of Mikhail S. Gorbachev's perestroika to make a discernible improvement in the Soviet economy, and the explosive nationalist passions it has unleashed, have, in the view of Administration officials, made the Soviet leader in even more of a hurry for foreign policy and arms control achievements. He needs these to build his authority to make more reforms at home, save money and buttress his international standing in case he decides he must crack down in the Baltic republics or elsewhere in the restive Soviet realm, officials say. Mr. Shevardnadze, in an interview last week with the Soviet newspaper Izvestia, complained to Washington that the ''tempo of movement toward new agreements on real nuclear disarmament doesn't satisfy us'' and that ''because of the restrained, indecisive position of the American Administration, both the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R., as well as the entire world community, have lost a lot.''
At the same time that the Shevardnadze interview was published, the White House was announcing that a date for a Bush-Gorbachev meeting was not likely to be set in Jackson Hole. Indeed, as Mr. Gorbachev's economic and ethnic woes make Moscow more eager for foreign policy successes, those same woes make the Bush Administration more cautious about its dealings with the Kremlin. While Bush policy makers are now much more certain about Mr. Gorbachev's sincerity as a reformer, and want to achieve quickly what agreements they can, they are increasingly wary that his reforms could lead backward to a sort of turn-of-the-century Europe fragmented by nationalist tensions.
In addition, the uncertainties unleashed by perestroika have made Washington more wary about keeping up the momentum for sweeping new arms control accords. In a time of destabilization, they cannot be so certain about the political context -in Moscow or the Warsaw Pact - in which the other side will be implementing such agreements.
So while there are pressures to quickly reach agreements, there are also counter pressures to move at a very deliberate pace. This may explain why Mr. Baker and Mr. Shevardnadze are expected to make progress in Wyoming on the ultimately secondary issue of chemical weapons proliferation, and only minimal progress on the more fundamental issue of nuclear arms.
''For all its risks and uncertainties, the Cold War was characterized by a remarkably stable and predictable set of relations among the great powers,'' Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger said last week. He warned of ''the danger that change in the East will prove too destabilizing to be sustained.''
Administration officials say they are increasingly aware how little the West can do to make Mr. Gorbachev's changes succeed. What he needs more than arms control agreements, they say, is a theory and practice of federalism that would let him reform his economy while preventing an unraveling of his empire.
''It is strange,'' an Administration official mused. ''The United States-Soviet relationship is still critical for world affairs, but it is tertiary in determining whether Gorbachev succeeds or not. But whether he succeeds or not will affect our relationship.''
''It is important that we not be complacent,'' the official said. ''We should move where it is in our interest. But let's not fool ourselves. They are the ones in a rush, not us.''

GRAPHIC: East Germans who fled to the West through Hungary flashing their new West German passports last week (Sygma/Patrick Robert) (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); BALTIC STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); 

PERSON: BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD A (MIN)



414 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION: David N. Dinkins;
An Even Temper In the Tempest of Mayoral Politics

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN

 BODY:
IT took David N. Dinkins a long time to get to where he is today, replacing the once-indomitable Edward I. Koch at the top of New York City's Democratic ticket. Yet probably the most delicate step in Mr. Dinkins's slow, cautious career will be his next one: in seeking to become mayor, he must convince the voters that he can lead a changing city.
Regardless of what happens Nov. 7, Mr. Dinkins is already a shoo-in for the history books, not just because he is black, but because of his proven ability to reach out well beyond his own base. His healthy margin of victory in the Democratic primary last Tuesday, including the support of 29 percent of white voters and 54 percent of Hispanic voters, according to exit polls, shows he tapped into a citywide yearning for harmony.
If calm is what many New York Democrats were voting for last Tuesday, a motive that some said easily mixed with a desire to be rid of the contentious and voluble Mr. Koch, it would have been difficult to find a more suitable candidate than the 62-year-old Mr. Dinkins. While his race reflects the shift in the city's demographics - now 23 percent black, and 17 percent Hispanic - his even temperament was suited to its mood. 
But now as Mr. Dinkins moves toward the general election, he faces a tough opponent in Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former Federal prosecutor who will have the ammunition of the Republican national party. Both candidates have already signaled a bolder, harsher campaign: Mr. Dinkins has linked Mr. Giuliani to ''reactionary'' Republicanism, while Mr. Giuliani has called Mr. Dinkins a ''clubhouse politician.''
And with Mr. Koch now out of the picture, the focus will be on what exactly the two candidates propose to do to solve some of the city's ills. In the primary, both talked about what they would like to do to combat crime, treat drug addicts and care for the needy; the question now becomes how, and with whose money.
For Mr. Dinkins, another question arises. Having proved in the primary that he can bring together different factions under a banner of harmony, he must now show he can lead this reassembled coalition of labor, liberals and minorities - and not be torn apart, or immobilized by their competing interests.
At the beginning of the primary campaign, Mr. Dinkins seemed to fall into traps he set himself. When he said he would consider supporting changes in the Taylor Law, which bans strikes by public workers, he signaled that his support from the city's public employee unions may have had a price.
His suggestion brought a counterattack from Mr. Koch. Mr. Dinkins quickly dropped any idea of tinkering with the law, and now says he supports it as written.
In some ways, the pace and pressure of the campaign forced Mr. Dinkins to curb his sometimes maddening vagueness and his preference for lengthy deliberations, the criticism most often voiced of his tenure as Manhattan Borough President. ''The campaign has given him broader scope,'' an adviser said. ''And it has made him quicken his decision-making process.''
Still, by the end, Mr. Dinkins was avoiding any surprises. He stuck close to issue papers prepared by his staff, offering for instance, a 42-point plan for economic development.
And in his off-the-cuff remarks, he kept to platitudes about keeping the peace between the city's different groups. After the Aug. 23 murder of a black teen-ager in the white neighborhood of Bensonhurst in Brooklyn, his plea to ''stop the violence, and start the healing'' began to drown out all other messages put forward in the campaign.
With hindsight, supporters said Mr. Dinkins's even temper served him well, even though some of them had urged him to take on a harsher tone against the incumbent Mayor. ''David was very responsible for keeping the campaign within bounds,'' a top adviser said, ''and it is to his credit that in the end, Koch became more like Dinkins, than the other way around.''
The Rev. Herbert Daughtry of the House of the Lord Pentecostal Church in Brooklyn said he saw little change in Mr. Dinkins's style in the campaign, except for a tighter, sharper delivery of his message.
''He never lost his Dinkinism,'' said Mr. Daughtry. ''He is still Dave: if somebody drops a pen, he is the first to stoop to pick it up; he is the first to jump up when a lady comes in the room. It is part of his strong suit, and I don't think he is going to change.''
Some friends say that in the beginning Mr. Dinkins was anxious about giving up his safe seat as Manhattan Borough President for the risky prospect of facing Mr. Koch. But publicly, he maintained a surface calm, broken occasionally by flashes of impatience and resentment that he - as the only black candidate running in either party - was being asked to bear a special burden.
From his childhood, which he spent divided between New York City and Trenton, David Dinkins has kept steady control of his emotions, friends and family members say. When he was 6 years old, his mother left his father in Trenton and moved to New York, taking her two children with her. Mr. Dinkins later returned to Trenton, where he attended elementary and high school.
''He never was a loud type of person,'' said his father, William Dinkins, who was a barber, then a realtor and now, at 83, still lives on Spring Street in North Trenton. ''He thought way ahead before he spoke.''
Leaving the Marine Corps in 1946 - where he had twice been denied enlistment because the quota for blacks had been filled - Mr. Dinkins went to Howard University in Washington, graduating cum laude in mathematics.
He moved to New York City for good when he started at Brooklyn Law School, working nights at the liquor store owned by his father-in-law, Danny Burroughs, an Assemblyman from Harlem.
It was through Mr. Burroughs that Mr. Dinkins became involved in Harlem politics, soon linking his fortunes with the legendary J. Raymond Jones, the ''Harlem Fox'' and founder of the Carver Club, the training ground for several generations of black political and business leaders.
''What the Carver Club did was build men and women,'' said Mr. Jones, now 89 and living in the Virgin Islands, ''and when the opportunity came, fit them and support them where they could do the most good.''
That credo - train first, and then wait for the moment - is a good description of Mr. Dinkins's career. Elected to the Assembly in 1965, Mr. Dinkins served only one term before his district was reapportioned.
His elected career then went dormant for two decades, while he practiced law and paid his dues as a Democratic loyalist, climbing rung by rung up the patronage ladder without a lot of fanfare, first at the Board of Elections, then serving as city clerk from 1975 to 1985.
A low point came in 1973, when it was revealed he had not paid income taxes for four years in a row. He had to back out of an offer from Mayor Abraham D. Beame to become Deputy Mayor. Mr. Dinkins said he had been too busy to file the returns but he later paid the back taxes.
Supporters insisted that Mr. Dinkins's unobtrusiveness in those years was not to be confused with passivity. Rather, they note his perseverance -trying three times to run for Manhattan Borough President, before finally winning in 1985.
''Longevity counts for a lot in politics,'' a Dinkins adviser said last week. ''There are always meteoritic stars, but David is not of that ilk. He hung in there.''

GRAPHIC: The candidate outside City Hall (Sygma/Allan Tannenbaum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (62%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (61%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); BOHLEN, CELESTINE RUDY GIULIANI (77%); 



415 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
After Four Terms, Us Versus Them Still Plays in Detroit

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
AT a time when a new class of crossover black politicians is reaching out to whites, Coleman A. Young, the cantankerous, tart-tongued Mayor of Detroit, continues to confound the experts with his popularity.
Mr. Young last week breezed to a nonpartisan primary election victory over a dozen challengers, and he did so without offering the sort of bridge-building appeals that many newer black politicians must make in other places. Instead, he used the same tactics that have infuriated whites and endeared him to his black supporters in his 16 years in office: he blamed racism, the media and white flight for most of the city's troubles; he called his opponents Uncle Toms. He came away with 51 percent of the vote and in November will face the next highest finisher, Tom Barrow, a 40-year-old accountant who Mr. Young beat in the 1985 Mayoral election. Mr. Barrow got 24 percent of the vote last week, and the consensus among local experts is that Mr. Young will, as one put it, ''have him for breakfast.'' 
The 71-year-old Mayor is among the last of a fading breed of black politicians who rose to power in the late 1960's and early 1970's, swept into office by black voters frustrated by decades of white-dominated administrations. They took over city halls with a mission to heal cities torn apart by race riots. They were considered saviors and symbols.
Mr. Young has outlasted most of his peers from that era - Richard Hatcher of Gary, Ind., Carl Stokes of Cleveland, Kenneth A. Gibson of Newark - by deftly playing to his supporters. His us-versus-them approach - city versus suburbs, black versus white, poor versus rich - has fostered deep loyalty.
More than most black mayors, Mr. Young has the numbers on his side. About 70 percent of Detroit's voters are black. Consequently, he seems to revel in the sort of polarization that other politicians dread. ''He embodies all the things that a lot of black people can't be themselves - tough, combative, confrontational,'' said Dr. Wilbur Rich, an associate professor of political science at Wayne State University and author of a biography of Mr. Young. ''He will tell white people off in a minute. That's reassuring to a lot of black people.''
Mr. Young has successfully deflected blame for the city's problems - crime, unemployment, inadequate services - by arguing that they are a result of national conditions. Some of his most loyal supporters live in ramshackle neighborhoods where trash collection is sporadic, the police do not come when called and crack dealers rule the streets. ''You're not downtrodden with Coleman Young fighting for you,'' said Jack Casey, a political analyst who helped run Mr. Young's first campaign.
 
'Coleman Needs Me'
Mr. Young, a former auto worker, insurance salesman, labor leader and state representative who never went to college, knows his constituents well. He is blunt and streetwise, frequently curses at news conferences and rarely shows up at charity balls. His supporters bridle at threats to his standing. ''If they think the race is a close one, they really come out, because they think, 'Coleman needs me now,' '' Dr. Rich said. At the same time, said Mr. Casey, Mr. Young simply ''never bothered to get white votes.''
If he ignores whites in the city, he is almost contemptuous of those in the suburbs. When stiffer gun- control measures were proposed for Detroit a fe years ago, Mr. Young denounced the effort as a racist attack on the city. ''I'll be damned if I'm going to let them collect guns in the city of Detroit, while we're surrounded by hostile suburbs,'' Mr. Young said.
Still, Mr. Young has forged comfortable alliances with white business leaders to bring scattered development along the downtown riverfront. ''He may have the best of both worlds,'' said Mr. Hatcher, the former Mayor of Gary, Ind. ''On the one hand, he's perceived as the champion of the black community, and on the other hand, the white business community sees him as an ally. It's quite a trick if you can do it.''
Still, the primary campaign of United States Representative John Conyers, who served 13 terms in Congress and was widely expected to be the Mayor's strongest opponent, brought Mr. Young some unaccustomed criticism. Mr. Conyers, a 13-term Congressman, got a lot of attention, but only 18 percent of the votes.
Mr. Barrow did better, but the day after the election he began stumping uphill, shaking hands tirelessly across the city. Mr. Young went on vacation.

GRAPHIC: Coleman A. Young of Detroit: a fading breed? (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); INDIANA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;DETROIT (MICH)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; BLACKS (IN US) ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); RIOTS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (60%); WRITERS (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); COCAINE (50%); 

PERSON: YOUNG, COLEMAN A (MAYOR); WILKERSON, ISABEL



416 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: The Passive President

 BODY:
In conscience and self-interest, the West cannot let the democratic experiment in Poland fail. Then why has the Bush Administration decided against giving immediate, large-scale aid to Poland's collapsing economy?
Given the historic opportunity to buttress the non-Communist alternative in Warsaw, the response reveals a curious passivity among President Bush and his aides. 
This passivity extends to other opportunities abroad besides Poland. The Administration could, but won't, move briskly to conclude the strategic arms treaty with Moscow. It is sitting back and waiting for the terrorists to make the next move on hostages in southern Lebanon. It is avoiding high-level involvement in Middle East peace talks.
The Administration now gives the appearance of helping Poland with the announcement that it will double emergency food aid to $100 million. But that's more in the nature of disaster relief than the structural assistance the new Government needs to start rebuilding its economy. And Mr. Bush took even this step only after pressure from Congress.
Though Poland is Exhibit A of Administration passivity, there are other examples.
In a remarkable speech last week, Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence Eagleburger actually took America's West European allies to task for their evident interest in encouraging Mikhail Gorbachev's reform. The correct policy for the West, he suggested, is to act in its own interest rather than basing policy on helping Mr. Gorbachev to succeed.
How can it not be in the Western interest to help a policy succeed that the West has wanted all along? Given Mr. Gorbachev's moderate foreign policy course, it is clearly in the West's interest to act vigorously to strengthen his internal position.
As to the hostages in Lebanon, the President probably fears that any action would entail unacceptable risks. But that turns on a tragic assumption: that the terrorists will simply tire and relent. It's at least as likely that they won't and that he'll be forced to react once again - in crisis.
Correctly, Mr. Bush cannot ignore the odds against an Arab-Israeli peace settlement. Yet failure is guaranteed if the White House and Secretary of State Baker seem disengaged from the process.
Poland is the most clear-cut case of opportunity going wanting. The success of the new Polish Government will contribute to prospects for reform in the Soviet Union and throughout Eastern Europe, and more democratic governments there will strengthen Western security.
A little economic aid could go a very long way. For example, Solidarity is asking for a $1 billion currency stabilization fund; the U.S. share would be a fraction. The currency must be stabilized if the Polish Government is even to start fighting crippling inflation. Solidarity's leader, Lech Walesa, pleads, in addition, for $10 billion in emergency bilateral and multilateral aid. Again, America would put up only a part of the total. If backed by Polish belt-tightening and economic reforms, the request is not excessive - given the stakes.
The President's disposition to let events take their course has not served him badly so far. His popularity has now soared to 70 percent, a near-record in the last decade. But his standing will not survive catastrophe, and catastrophe almost certainly will result if he forgoes the advantages of decisive U.S. action and is compelled to be merely reactive in crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: POLAND (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); LEBANON (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN SECURITY SYSTEMS (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); TERRORISM (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); HOSTAGE TAKING (75%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (70%); CURRENCIES (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (56%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



417 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Ed Koch's New York

 BODY:
As he flew in from Washington one evening during his second term, a contented Edward Koch looked out at the glittering New York skyline and smiled. ''Mine, all mine,'' he said, figuratively, of course, but with unfeigned warmth.
Edward Irving Koch has personalized the mayoralty with such delight that the line between Mayor and city blurred during the 12 years he has led New York. That stubbornly personal style finally backfired. Calm David Dinkins, who says ''we'' or ''one'' instead of ''I,'' trounced Mr. Koch in last Tuesday's Democratic primary. Still, it was the personal approach that brought Ed Koch his successes, got New York through trying times, infused a dispirited city with optimism and gave it sensible leadership. 
It's natural in the aftermath of a passionate campaign to dwell on the Mayor's insensitivities and love of combat, his showmanship and weakness for one-liners. That makes this a good moment to contemplate all of the Age of Koch in perspective.
In a huge, disparate city that must have firm leadership to stay whole, Ed Koch redefined the role of mayor. That legacy of strong leadership can only help as the city contemplates a government reorganized by proposed changes in its charter.
The city was still recovering from its calamitous fiscal crisis when he took office in 1978. Business and development were at a standstill and New Yorkers were already feeling the strain of budget cuts; the police force had lost one officer in six. Before his first term was out, the city had regained access to the credit markets and was borrowing again on its own. Business was growing. By the end of his second term, the police force had risen to 26,000 en route to its present 27,000.
Shifts in the national economy surely contributed to this turnaround. But through the force of his personality, with the facility of a stand-up comic and the sternness of an accountant, Ed Koch got New Yorkers to accept difficult and unpopular fiscal decisions.
He'd call the United Nations a ''cesspool'' one minute, denounce ''wackos'' the next, but made a fractious bureaucracy for the first time conform to ''GAAP'' - generally accepted accounting principles. That was no small accomplishment. Neither was establishing and adhering to a merit system of appointing judges or championing a new program of public campaign financing.
From the start, Mr. Koch could be petty and insulting. He has been accused repeatedly of favoring the middle class over the poor. His insensitivity to blacks earned him bitter enmity. He reacted more than he planned. But he also showed he could learn. Mr. Koch appointed the first black Police Commissioner, Ben Ward. He launched an incredible program to house 250,000 people by 1993. He built a capital program to address the weakening infrastructure. Finally, he began moving families out of squalid welfare hotels.
When the corruption scandal erupted in his third term, it raised grave questions about the Mayor's judgment, about his embrace of machine politicians and whether his ceaseless need for self-promotion had distracted him. Mr. Koch, never personally implicated in the scandals, denied all. But he also made significant reforms.
In the end, Mr. Koch exhausted his beloved city. New Yorkers wanted a change, a respite from his entertaining, often irritating presence. But even Mr. Koch's most acid critics saw, in the gracious, unselfish way he conceded to David Dinkins on primary night, that Ed Koch's ultimate concern is for New York. This is the city he once called ''a stroke of genius.'' He will, no doubt, always consider it his, all his, and in a sense he will be right.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); POLITICS (74%); BUDGETS (70%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); ACCOUNTING (66%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (64%); JUDGES (60%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: KOCH, EDWARD I (MAYOR) EDWARD IRWIN 'ED' KOCH (98%); DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (57%); 



418 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: How Inflation Looks In a Real Market

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I wonder if the Federal bureaucrats who report ''a moderating inflation rate'' of 5.1 percent (front page, Aug. 30) live in the same world as the rest of us.
In my local supermarket a roll of toilet tissue, which was priced at 39 cents last year, today costs 69 cents. A 32-ounce bottle of mouthwash, which was $3.79 last year, is today priced at $5.99. And a box of 10 steel wool pads, which was 69 cents a year ago, today costs $1.10.
Comparable increases of 30 percent and 40 percent can be seen on dozens of other items, not to mention the exorbitant prices for seasonal fruit and vegetables. For instance, peaches are 99 cents a pound; potatoes, 59 cents; iceberg lettuce, $1.25; green beans, 99 cents. Why such hothouse prices at a time when produce is in peak quantity?
Over-the-counter pharmaceuticals are priced like prescription drugs: 50 trademark analgesic tablets, $6.75.
Isn't it time we learned the truth about inflation? We may not be able to do anything about it, but let's not fool ourselves into believing the ''better off'' malarkey put out by Washington.
 
FRANCES A. KOESTLER
 New York, Sept. 1, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: 99 CENTS ONLY STORES (70%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOOD PRICES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); DRUG PRICES (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); ANALGESICS (67%); 

PERSON: KOESTLER, FRANCES



419 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
Disarm, Don't Disengage

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

DATELINE: OSLO

 BODY:
Military people all over are getting the jitters as East and West come to grips for the first time with the idea of really cutting armed forces. Norway is no exception, although there are political advantages.
There was an indecisive election here last week but with no defense or alliance issues. Controversies were on unemployment, environment, foreign workers. 
The once-active anti-nuclear movement scarcely peeped. ''They've been disarmed by disarmament,'' quipped Defense Minister Johan Jorgen Holst. It's obvious, though, that the campaign will be back with noisy vengeance, here and in the rest of Western Europe, if hopes are dashed.
But it's going to be a good deal harder than President Bush advertised at NATO last spring to get a treaty on conventional force reductions in Europe, and experts worry about the loss of momentum in Soviet-American strategic talks. Mr. Bush and his advisers aren't pushing on missile cuts.
There is a built-in ''braking mechanism'' - to borrow the Soviet term for domestic opposition to Mikhail Gorbachev's reform plans - to reducing military forces in the West, despite almost universal budget pressures.
One reason is that military planners and analysts are used to thinking in terms of clear-cut tasks and missions. They've had it all laid out for years. The idea of starting over again, reopening questions that were considered settled, provokes resistance throughout the alliance military establishment, even if it does hold prospects for big cuts in Soviet threat capacity.
But there are also more valid reasons for hesitation in facing changes required in the West. A tour of defense installations well above the Arctic Circle disclosed the concerns on Norwegian officers' minds.
They argue, rightly, that their far north has crucial strategic importance to the whole alliance, as well as to Norway's defense. They look out across the routes that Soviet subs and warships would take to attack the sea lanes between Europe and America, essential for reinforcements. If their bases were to fall into Soviet hands, it would be a disaster for NATO.
But all the emphasis now is on reducing the threat to the central front in Europe. Would that mean their northern flank would be left to face the principal exposure, they ask? They too could only survive by relying on reinforcement in wartime. Would it still be assured? If there are manpower cuts in both blocs, would they also be expected to reduce what is no more than a bare-bones standing army, with mobilization plans?
These and a lot of other questions applying to other NATO areas can be answered. But for now there is uncertainty. There can be no doubt about the commitment to defense, despite some U.S. arguments that the Europeans don't make enough effort for their own security to merit U.S. support.
It was pointed out at the conference here of the International Institute for Strategic Studies that up to now the alliance has lived with a high level of military threat but with political stability. Now the threat of aggression may be reduced, but with mounting political instability.
No one can be confident about what is going to happen in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. Mikhail Gorbachev's difficulties are growing dramatically and confidence is seeking in whether he can maneuver his way through the painful transformation he has launched.
That is all the more reason for the West to maintain coherence as it watches, with only marginal ability to influence developments. Talk of NATO losing its importance when arms are reduced and the risk of deliberate confrontation recedes is pernicious.
On the contrary, NATO matters as much as ever as Europe moves into a new era. The problems for Germany are manifest, and the problem of its division is a central issue again for everybody else. The West has won the long ideological conflict, but that doesn't mean clear sailing ahead.
Western Europe and the U.S. remain critical to each other's security. It is the alliance that gives both the sense of safety needed to encourage peaceful changes in the East.
There is an opportunity to move toward demilitarizing the difficult East-West relation and it is important to seize it, for political, social and moral as well as security reasons. But reducing the level of arms and the danger of aggression does not mean the time has come to unravel commitments within the West.
Disarm but don't disengage must be the watchword for the U.S. now. NATO remains vital, and vitally needed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: NORWAY (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ARCTIC (58%); 

CITY: OSLO, NORWAY (78%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (55%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (79%); NAVAL VESSELS (79%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (79%); ARMIES (79%); MILITARY VESSELS (74%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 



420 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 3, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2106 words

HEADLINE: GETTING TO THE HEART OF DIXIE

BYLINE: By HOWELL RAINES; Howell Raines, the Washington editor of The New York Times and formerly the paper's Atlanta bureau chief, is the author of ''My Soul Is Rested,'' a book about the civil rights movement.

 BODY:

ENCYCLOPEDIA OF SOUTHERN CULTURE
Edited by Charles Reagan Wilson and William Ferris.
Associate editors, Ann J. Abadie and Mary L. Hart.
Illustrated. 1,634 pp. Chapel Hill:
The University of North Carolina Press.
$49.95; after Jan. 1, $59.95.
Gov. Ross Barnett of Mississippi was unique among the segregationist demagogues of the 1960's in his willingness to say the word ''nigger'' in his speeches. He was also capable of lying or, at least, changing his mind without telling anyone. In 1962, for example, he promised President John F. Kennedy that he would see to the peaceful integration of the University of Mississippi. Later, he turned up at an Ole Miss football game and, inspired by the sight of 40,000 white people waving Confederate flags, decided to renege. Barnett's duplicity led to a bloody riot on the Oxford campus in which two people were killed and Federal marshals resorted to hand-to-hand combat with a mob opposed to the enrollment of James Meredith, a black taxpayer seeking admission to a tax-supported institution in the state of his residence. 
These useful facts are unflinchingly recorded in the ''Encyclopedia of Southern Culture,'' a 1,634-page reference work assembled by the Center for the Study of Southern Culture at the University of Mississippi and published by the University of North Carolina Press. The mere fact of its publication is noteworthy. Ole Miss, which was once Dixie's most reactionary state university, now houses a center that aspires to fill the place in regional scholarship occupied by the University of North Carolina in the 1930's.
The appearance of the book also coincides with the emergence of a Mississippi governor, 40-year-old Ray Mabus, who may be a prototype for the next generation of Southern leaders. Educated outside the South, he has returned to tackle twin demons - property tax reform and education funding - that have made cowards of generations of Southern politicians. Mississippi, through its university and its Government, is bidding to jump ahead of Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and, of course, Alabama as the avatar of Sunbelt progressivism. Such matters are pertinent because they remind us that books, especially those that involve an effort at self-definition, are cultural events. And this book's significance reaches beyond Mississippi. It provides an opportunity to examine how the South thinks of itself as it emerges from a quarter-century of potent change.
This is a big, serious and ambitious book that has the virtue of avoiding what might be called the Southern Living disease, in honor of that relentlessly cheerful magazine devoted to depicting the region as one endless festival of barbecue, boiled shrimp, football Saturdays and good old Nashville music. To be sure, the encyclopedia makes its ritual bows to hog-killing and mamma's biscuits, but there is intellectual spine to this work, as well.
Most important, in their selections on Southern history, the editors, Charles Reagan Wilson and William Ferris, do a nice job of settling a legitimate regional grievance against William A. Dunning, a New Jersey man who inflicted a powerfully bad idea on the South through his teaching at Columbia University. In the first half of this century, the Dunning school of historians nurtured the myth of the lost cause and fed the white South's paranoid vision of Reconstruction as a time of undeserved suffering.
In general, the ''Encyclopedia of Southern Culture'' reflects a total repudiation of the Dunning thesis and many of its moonlight-and-magnolias corollaries. The historical and sociological analysis reflects the new consensus that has emerged in Southern scholarship over the past 40 years: that the Civil War resulted in positive changes and that the tides of change continued to flow in a healing direction up through the civil rights movement of the 60's and the regional economic transformation that followed.
Unfortunately - and perhaps inevitably in a book with more than 800 contributors and consultants - the individual entries do not always measure up to the encyclopedia's thematic promise and aspirations. As always with the South, things circle back around to race and class. In this regard, this book seems to be wrestling with limited success against two towering ghosts of this century in the South: William Faulkner in the realm of literature and Martin Luther King Jr. in the world of politics. It seems unable to throw off the one or to come fully to grips with the other. Fifty-nine lines in the index are required to record all the references to Faulkner and only 17 lines are required for King. As if to fend off a raid by Hemingway scholars, the Faulkner entry flatly pronounces him ''first among 20th-century American writers of prose fiction.'' King gets no superlatives in his main biographical entry, although ''greatest orator of the century'' would seem a pronouncement every bit as easy to defend.
Some element of Mississippi chauvinism may be at work. Through the middle decades of this century, Faulkner's excellence was Mississippi's shield against national ridicule. He was the state icon, held up the way Alabamians held up the Crimson Tide football team, Georgians pointed to Coca-Cola or Tennesseans celebrated the Grand Ole Opry. It was a way of saying no matter whom we elect or how badly we behave, we aren't trash.
It would be unfair to impute deliberate bias to the editors or their contributors. The biographical essay on King, for example, is a sound piece by David J. Garrow, a civil rights scholar who has done pioneering research on King's life. Rather, the fact that this book is more comfortable with the Civil War than the civil rights era demonstrates that Southern scholars have not fully assimilated the experience of the past 25 years or learned to honor black achievement with the ease with which they laud something like the cavalry tactics of Gen. Nathan Bedford Forrest. This book - like the South, like the nation as a whole - suffers from having its vision blinkered along racial, gender and generational lines.
Of the 24 consultants chosen to assemble the major sections, only one is black and only two are women. At best, this is a blunder in public relations. At worst, it suggests that this book's vision of the South is essentially that of middle-aged, white, male academics. It is healthy to be blunt on this point: an institution attempting to throw off the chains of error can ill afford such lapses in editorial planning and intellectual balance.
The decision not to devote a section to the civil rights movement is a major lapse that has left big holes in the book. Heroines such as Ella Jo Baker, who helped found the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, and Fannie Lou Hamer, the SNCC warrior from Sunflower County, Mississippi, get their due. But two men of awesome physical courage - the Rev. Fred L. Shuttlesworth, who sparked the Birmingham desegregation movement by offering his body to Klan beatings and police fire hosings, and Amzie Moore, who brought the first SNCC workers into Cleveland, Miss. - do not get the full biographical essays they deserve. The fleeting mentions of Robert Moses, the legendary SNCC leader who organized the Freedom Summer of 1964, is a breathtaking omission in a book that awards a sanitized biographical entry to Brother Dave Gardner, a white comedian specializing in racist jokes.
Again, sloppiness rather than some more conspiratorial impulse seems to be at work. For example, P. D. East and Hazel Brannon Smith, white newspaper owners who rebelled against Mississippi's segregationist ethos, are mentioned. But the much more potent figure of James W. Silver, the Ole Miss professor who shocked the state in 1964 with the publication of ''Mississippi: The Closed Society,'' is missing.
The 24 sections - varying from such predictable categories as ''Agriculture'' to the creatively conceived ''Mythic South'' - are introduced by essays that vary widely in quality. The best of these - including Blaine A. Brownell's ''Urbanization,'' Raymond D. Gastil's ''Violence'' and Numan Bartley's ''Politics'' - provide analysis that rises well above the conventional.
Mr. Bartley, a University of Georgia historian, for example, notes that it was the white middle class, not the much-maligned ''white trash,'' that sustained racist demagogues in office. He also notes that of all the purported populists only Huey Long fully delivered on his promises to make the extractive industries pay a fair share of state taxes.
Some of the same against-the-grain analysis is to be found in the section called ''Social Class,'' and it is here that the volume most clearly exhibits the conflict that signifies a struggle for growth in the way the South thinks about itself and its people. Here we see a real, if not entirely successful attempt to throw off the Faulknerian vision of an aristocracy that retained a core of nobility despite its moral failings and a Snopesian underclass that was contemptible regardless of its achievements. Consider, for example, this admission by F. N. Boney of the University of Georgia, in an excessively charitable discussion of Southern aristocrats: ''The rebel elite had fought well enough, but the real backbone of the Confederacy had been its redneck infantry . . . who slugged it out with a numerically superior enemy who were also farmers.'' But Mr. Boney cannot bring himself to take the next step and record the fact that the plantation aristocrats, on a percentage basis, were probably the most efficient draft dodgers in the Confederacy through the use of the famous ''20-nigger law'' that granted exemptions to planters whose slaves numbered a score or more.
The section on ''Social Class'' would have been strengthened by more attention to the phenomenon of anti-Confederate sentiment among white Southerners. The fact that 2,500 white Alabamians fought in the Union Army and that 44 percent of its voters cast ballots against secession in 1860 is the sort of oddment that ought to be preserved in a book of this sort. Closer attention to such forgotten footnotes would have served to reinforce the editors' accurate assessment that a South that was politically, culturally and racially monolithic existed only as the stuff of legend.
Despite its lapses, the encyclopedia offers some important correctives to accepted history. The editors are to be credited with picking scholars who consistently point up the exploitation of the pre-World War II South as an economic colony by Northern corporations and the later collusion between indigenous corporations and reactionary politicians. And J. Wayne Flynt of Auburn University, a historian of the Southern poor, justly exposes the shameful record of the American Federation of Labor in maintaining segregated unions.
This kind of scholarship represents progress for a region that has always been hostile to the voicing of uncomfortable truths on the campus, in the pulpit or the legislatures. Sometimes, the conflict between clear-eyed scholarship and traditional Southern courtesy surfaces in comical ways. For example, in a single paragraph, we see the aristocratic Episcopalians and Presbyterians condemned for sustaining religious and class discrimination at state universities and then hastily congratulated for founding, respectively, Davidson College and the University of the South.
Alas, the section on ''Literature'' is dated and sometimes wrongheaded. The Nashville Agrarians are praised out of all proportion and let off too easily on the race issue, while the best artist of the lot, Robert Penn Warren, gets too little credit for the magnitude of his achievement in creating the enduring masterwork on Southern politics, ''All the King's Men.''
The entry on journalism is even more dated and thunderously silent on the most obvious analytical questions. What was the role of Northern chain ownership in the failure of Southern newspapers to meet the challenge of desegregation? How is it that the most widely read Southern columnist of the 50's was Ralph McGill, a crusader for social justice, while today that role is filled by Lewis Grizzard, whose humor often reeks of fraternity house bigotry?
This book represents a step forward for Southern scholarship, but not a great leap. The leap will come when the biographical entry in the law section for Atticus Finch, the fictional lawyer in ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' is joined by one for Fred D. Gray, the pioneering black civil rights lawyer who represented Rosa Parks and the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. during the Montgomery bus boycott.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ENCYCLOPEDIA OF SOUTHERN CULTURE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS (94%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI (83%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); FESTIVALS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); TAX LAW (67%); TAX REFORM (66%); 

PERSON: RAINES, HOWELL; WILSON, CHARLES REAGAN; FERRIS, WILLIAM; ABADIE, ANN J; HART, MARY L CHARLES A WILSON (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (55%); 



421 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1181 words

HEADLINE: WHO'S AFRAID OF THE BERLIN WALL?

BYLINE: By DAVID GRESS; David Gress, a fellow of the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, is the co-author of a two-volume ''History of West Germany,'' to be published in October.

 BODY:

GERMANY, AMERICA, EUROPE
Forty Years of German Foreign Policy.
By Wolfram F. Hanrieder.
509 pp. New Haven: Yale University Press. $29.95
 THE TWO GERMAN STATES AND EUROPEAN SECURITY.
Edited by F. Stephen Larrabee.
330 pp. New York:
Institute for
East-West Security Studies/St. Martin's Press. 
Cloth, $39.95; Paper, $15.95.
In his superlative new history of West Germany's foreign policy, Wolfram F. Hanrieder, calling himself a ''herald of future discord,'' warns: ''There is a broad and deep reservoir of goodwill toward the United States in the Federal Republic. . . . But the translation of that goodwill into the practical policies that ultimately determine the nature of German-American relations does not proceed automatically.'' If American policy makers want to maintain American interests, he insists, they must learn to understand and respect West Germany's own power and interests in formulating a European policy for the United States.
''Germany, America, Europe'' is the essential starting point for that task. Drawing on a lifetime's learning and personal experiences as a German-American scholar of international relations, Mr. Hanrieder, a professor of political science at the University of California, Santa Barbara, lucidly chronicles and interprets the four main dimensions of West Germany's foreign relations: strategic security, national division, international economic integration and domestic politics. In all four dimensions, West Germans face choices. These go to the root of their political existence and self-understanding as citizens of a cruelly divided nation and of a state that was intended by its founders to be provisional, but which, since 1949, has developed its own traditions and logic of survival.
From 1949 to the present, Mr. Hanrieder argues, America has practiced ''double containment'' - not only strategic containment of the Soviet Union, but also political and economic containment of West Germany in order to keep the Germans dependent on Washington for their policy choices and strategic options. In the 1950's, America contained Germany to reassure the French that it would not permit a revival of German military power; in the 1980's, containment has been held necessary to prevent a drift of West Germany toward excessive accommodation with the Soviet Union and East Germany. Such a policy is no longer possible, in view of West Germany's economic and political status. Mr. Hanrieder calls for a fundamental rethinking of double containment:
''This demands above all that Washington treat [West Germany] as a full-fledged partner and elevate the German-American relationship to the full measure of maturity that it deserves. It is time to shed attitudes that regard [West Germany] as a junior partner.''
If America begins to take West Germany more seriously, however, Germans and other Western Europeans must themselves learn the responsibilities of power. They ''must ask whether they truly regard themselves as so lacking in common purpose and strength that they cannot establish on their own a sufficiently credible joint deterrent, nuclear and conventional . . . augmenting if not replacing an increasingly shaky American commitment to their defense.'' If they will not, ''they should indeed continue to accept the American diplomatic tutelage they resent and the American nuclear protection they distrust. In that case they should do so not grudgingly and with endless complaints but willingly and openly, as do those who recognize and accept their lack of resolve and are ready to pay the price in loss of power, purpose, and prestige.''
Mr. Hanrieder's book is that rarity in American academic literature, a truly learned work. He understands that a love of poetry and philosophy are essential for the true scholar, whatever his field. An uncultured author may know many facts, but his presentation will be flat, ahistorical, without depth and context. ''Germany, America, Europe'' is not only the definitive account of its subject; it is also, thanks to its vigorous style and humane learning, a joy and a pleasure to read.
The Institute for East-West Security Studies brings together Western and Eastern specialists to discuss the major issues between the two camps. ''The Two German States and European Security,'' edited by F. Stephen Larrabee, the institute's vice president and director of studies, is one result of this effort. The Western contributions are generally sober, informative and useful, providing analyses of present-day issues that complement Mr. Hanrieder's historical overview. Their general tenor is summed up in the conclusion to the essay ''The Origins of a New Inter-German Relationship,'' by A. James McAdams, an assistant professor of politics at Princeton University. The two Germanies, he says, are building a structure of mutual relations that the West ''can hardly afford to underestimate.'' While well short of anything that even remotely resembles federation or reassociation, this relationship has become a permanent fixture of the European geostrategic scene.
The Eastern contributions, by comparison, demonstrate that the cold war is alive and well in East Berlin and Warsaw. Filled with the wooden language of ideology and confrontation, they are in no sense ''a concrete demonstration of the will of both East and West to work together to improve mutual cooperation and understanding,'' as Berthold Beitz, the honorary chairman of the institute, ingenuously claims in his foreword. Nor do they demonstrate any trace of the ''new thinking'' extolled by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev. One East German spokesman has the effrontery to claim that ''the people of [East Germany] have exercised their right to self-determination'' in accepting Communist rule. Elsewhere, he tells the bald-faced lie that East Germany ''does not receive any subsidies'' from West Germany, ignoring the annual billion or so marks paid by Bonn to buy out Germans wishing to exercise their right to self-determination by leaving East Germany.
With a Stalinist regard for the truth, a Polish-regime spokesman straight out of George Orwell's Ministry of Truth asserts that the Polish Communist Government was ''guided . . . by humanitarian principles'' when, between 1945 and 1950, it expelled 15 million Germans from their ancestral lands, killing over a million in the process. Among his other lies are that few Germans ever really lived in these areas and that West Germany is dominated by aggressive, revanchist forces wishing to restore the prewar German borders. His article is one long litany of attacks on West Germany's good faith and intentions, with not the slightest indication of remorse or apology for Communist Poland's own very considerable crimes against humanity.
The contrast between the Eastern and Western contributions is glaring and should be a serious embarrassment to an institute devoted to the proposition that East-West dialogue is possible and useful. The proposition may in some cases be true, but this volume is heavy evidence against it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: GERMANY, AMERICA, EUROPE (BOOK); TWO GERMAN STATES AND EUROPEAN SECURITY, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FOREIGN POLICY (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); 

PERSON: GRESS, DAVID; HANRIEDER, WOLFRAM F; LARRABEE, F STEPHEN



422 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: THE BUZZARDS ABOVE, THE CANE BELOW

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. MARGOLIS; Richard J. Margolis, a columnist for The New Leader, is the author of ''Homes of the Brave,'' a study of migrant farm worker housing.

 BODY:
BIG SUGAR Seasons in the Cane Fields of Florida. By Alec Wilkinson. 263 pp. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. $18.95. By Richard J. Margolis IN 1951, President Harry S. Truman's Commission on Migratory Labor examined farm worker conditions nationwide and concluded that what held the system together was human misfortune. ''We depend on misfortune to build up our force of migratory workers,'' declared the commission, ''and when the supply is low because there is not enough misfortune at home, we rely upon misfortune abroad to replenish the supply.''
The cane cutters of south Florida - more precisely, of the south shore of Lake Okeechobee, some 60 miles west of Palm Beach - are a melancholy case in point. As Alec Wilkinson tells us in ''Big Sugar,'' the growers there at first depended on black men recruited throughout the South to harvest their crops. But during World War II the economic circumstances of Southern blacks inconveniently improved. So the growers looked elsewhere for misfortune, and found an apparently inexhaustible supply in Jamaica and the surrounding islands. In consequence, ''West Indians have cut the sugar cane crop in south Florida for more than forty-five years.'' 
Unlike sugar cane in Louisiana and Texas, most of the Florida crop is harvested by hand (the soil is too soft for machines), and it accounts for more than 40 percent of all the sugar cane grown in the United States. Miserly piecework wages plus generous Federal Government price supports have made many of the Florida growers rich. Mr. Wilkinson speaks of ''the fine, fine, superfine living they have known with sugar.''
A writer for The New Yorker and the author of ''Moonshine: A Life in Pursuit of White Liquor,'' he started visiting the Florida cane fields in 1984, and over the next four years kept going back. From his catch-as-catch-can explorations Mr. Wilkinson has assembled a vivid collage of the cutter's world - the perilous work, the pitiable pay, the enforced isolation that borders on peonage. ''The cutters live in camps maintained by the growers. . . . Some are surrounded by chain-link fences, a number have checkpoints, and all are off limits to outsiders.''
As an outsider himself, Mr. Wilkinson had a rough time piercing the cane curtain. Most of the workers shunned him. The Florida Sugar Cane League, which represents the growers, showed him public-relations films and told him to stay out of the fields.
He is engagingly open about his journalistic difficulties. In desperation, he latched on to a local ex-convict nicknamed Caveman, who took him to a dingy bar and introduced him to a man who possibly was a cutter. ''While Caveman watched the pool players, the man talked, but it was hard for me to hear because of the noise in the bar and because he kept lowering his head and speaking to the floor. The only part I made out clearly was when he looked at me and said, 'And I'll tell you one more thing. . . .' ''
Gradually, Mr. Wilkinson's shrewd eye and sympathetic ear managed to penetrate the mystery and the misery. We see the dangers that lurk in the fields, where ''more than one in every three [workers] cuts himself or is cut by someone who has lost control of his knife, or wrenches his back, or suffers an attack of some kind in the heat, or steps in a rabbit hole and turns an ankle, or is bitten by fire ants, or pierces his eye or his eardrum with a sharp leaf of cane while bending over and grabbing a stalk.''
In Jamaican voices we hear the quiet lilt of despair: ''First camp I go to . . . I see a big man cry from the cold and they had to take him back to the camp. All day we breathing the soot and ash from the fields. Our lives one day shorter for each day we cut cane. . . . We live in captivity, we must obey our master, anything he say we have to do. For we it is rough. We have always a struggle. We are all of us under a sufferation.''
Mr. Wilkinson's sharp vignettes are constructed from the bottom up. ''If you go out to the fields and lie down for a while,'' he says, ''you draw the attention of buzzards. Sometimes one passes so close that you can look him in the eye and see that he is looking at you.''
What we do not get is a top-down view of the human buzzards - the big sugar corporations that reap the wealth in the wake of the whirlwind. Nor do we learn much about the ignoble alliance between Big Sugar and Big Government, which keeps the system going. For not only does our Government protect sugar prices, it also certifies the workers' miserly wages and monitors their execrable conditions.
As Mr. Wilkinson makes clear, the cutters are in no position to get out from under their ''sufferation.'' Our own belated outrage remains their slim but best hope.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BIG SUGAR: SEASONS IN THE CANE FIELDS OF FLORIDA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SUGAR FARMING (90%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (89%); WRITERS (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FARM LABOR (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); MEN (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); LAKES (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: MARGOLIS, RICHARD J; WILKINSON, ALEC



423 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 8; Page 3, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
The New Commissioner Brings Up the Name Joe Page

BYLINE: By George Vecsey

 BODY:
The Joe DiMaggio of sports columnists, Mr. W. W. (Red) Smith, once tried to pull a swifty on a new baseball commissioner. Not only that, but he did it while the commissioner was buying.
It happened at Toots Shor's, where Bowie Kuhn had held a soiree shortly after his election in 1969. Smith, who was not charmed by Kuhn's history as a counselor to baseball, happened to exit behind Kuhn into the cold night. 
But let Kuhn tell of the sidewalk encounter, in his book, ''Hardball: The Education of a Baseball Commissioner,'' issued in 1987 with help from Marty Appel:
'' 'Commissioner, name two catchers on the 1944 St. Louis Browns,' '' Kuhn quotes Smith as asking him. ''Surprised though I was, I answered directly, 'Mancuso and Hayworth.' 'My God,' he replied, 'you do know something about baseball.' ''
In the same spirit, a journalist from another paper sprang a flash quiz on the new commissioner, Francis T. (Fay) Vincent Jr., the other day, and found him quite able to converse about the Philadelphia Athletics of the post-World War II era.
But Vincent's knowledge of the Joosts and the Fains somehow obscured the fact that he knew them as obstacles, impediments, nay, even victims. The A's were the passion of Vincent's father, a famous Yale athlete of an earlier generation who later became a football official.
''My father was from New Haven, and it is a little-known fact that Connie Mack was from Meriden, Conn.,'' Vincent said the other day.
The new commissioner was, and let us emphasize the ''was,'' a Yankee fan when to be a Yankee fan was to root for major corporations. Which perhaps explains why Fay Vincent became a chief executive officer of Columbia Pictures.
This Yankee thing is no small matter. Baseball loyalties are a Rorschach test of the soul.
The scholar and former president of Yale, A. Bartlett Giamatti, for example, was such a partisan of the Boston Red Sox that he was livid over John McNamara's not replacing Bill Buckner at first base in a certain World Series game, even though said lapse produced a victory for the league for which Giamatti signed the baseballs.
Peter Ueberroth, we think, was a childhood fan of the Malibu Pool-Dunkers, or maybe it was the Laguna Beach Wet-Suiters, of the Pacific Coastline League.
Kuhn was and still is a Washington Senators fan, even though two different Senators teams have vanished to a fatal mix of indifference and avarice. How stuffy can you be if you root for lost causes?
Before that, Gen. William D. Eckert rooted for the Air Force. Ford Frick was a former journalist, and we know they are always totally neutral. Happy Chandler rooted for the University of Kentucky. And Judge Kenesaw Mountain Landis rooted for baseball to survive the Black Sox scandal.
Now we have the first known Yankee fan in the commissioner's office, to which he was elected on Wednesday, following the death of his friend and colleague, Bart Giamatti, on Sept. 1. Even in a telephone conversation, Vincent can be heard to sigh audibly when one offers ''congratulations-despite-the-circumstances.''
The two had planned to ride into the sunset, Butch and Sundance, 1 and 1A, but with Giamatti taking the high-profile road of moral suasion, and Vincent taking the low-profile road of bottom lines. They showed potential as a team in carefully banishing Pete Rose, a manager with a gambling problem, and now Fay Vincent is faced with handling both roles himself.
Vincent does not promise to do away with artificial turf or the designated hitter, both of which he deplores. He says he (and Giamatti) was ''concerned that people are concerned'' over CBS's dismantling the NBC game-of-the-week tradition on network television after this season, but he doesn't claim to have a solution.
The new commissioner does strike a civil note about the impending labor negotiations, saying: ''I was really annoyed over the strike in 1981, and so was Bart. I've lived through strikes in other circumstances, and I think it would be a terrible mistake for the players or the owners to view this in moral terms, good vs. evil. Historically, that's a disaster. This is an economic situation, and I hope I can be of some help in settling it.''
After a career in other industries, Vincent agreed to be Giamatti's deputy a year ago. He began seeing baseball from a new angle during the Hall of Fame weekend at Cooperstown, N.Y., this summer. Vincent, who does not play golf because of a serious back injury suffered in college, accompanied some umpires on a golf outing.
''To see dozens of fans in rural America standing along the edge of the course, getting autographs and talking to the umpires, was a very powerful lesson to me,'' Vincent said. ''I always knew baseball was important, but I began to realize, more than ever, the enormous role baseball plays in the culture and life of this country.''
It reminded him of his childhood in Connecticut, tilting toward the Yankees rather than the Red Sox, perhaps rebelling against his father's love of the Athletics. Now Vincent works with Bobby Brown, the American League president, who played for those postwar Yankees.
''There is nothing like going to the Stadium with Bobby and talking about Cliff Mapes, Johnny Lindell, Joe Page, all those great Yankees,'' Vincent said. ''Bobby told me how well the Yankees worked together.''
As Giamatti and Vincent no doubt thrashed out in their middle-aged friendship, Mapes would throw somebody out and Lindell would bash a big hit and Page would stalk in from the bullpen and strike out the last batter. It is probably not by accident that Vincent recites the names of Yankee shock troops rather than front-liners. He seems to know a bit about a good bench. So did the owners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA PICTURES (53%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (93%); WRITERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); HISTORY (76%); WORLD WAR II (74%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%); AIR FORCES (66%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: VECSEY, GEORGE; VINCENT, FAY CONNIE MACK (56%); 



424 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 8; Page 10, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: VIEWS OF SPORT;
Power Is Short-Circuiting Tennis's Appeal

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA WADE: Virginia Wade is a tennis commentator for the BBC and ESPN. She won the United States Open in 1968 and Wimbeldonin 1977.

 BODY:
A three-of-five-set men's singles match certainly gives you time to reflect upon trends in tennis today.
Watching some of these contests, including the Becker-Lendl final at Flushing Meadows last Sunday, has convinced me that what the game needs now is tennis environmentalists to rescue the endangered species of finesse, style and strategy.
Nostalgia is by definition looking back at the past through rose-colored glasses. When I was on the tour, we usually considered ex-players to be out of touch with the current game, but now as an ''ex'' myself, I allow myself the indulgence of evaluating the progress that tennis has made. What I see is a game in danger of becoming one-dimensional with its preoccupation with power and its neglect of strategy and nuances. 
On one level, Boris Becker's United States Open victory was a triumph for the game's traditional values. Of course, first Becker had to show he was strong enough physically to withstand Lendl's relentless force. I believe that once Ivan knew Boris would not be flattened by his big guns, he lost conviction.
For his part, Becker resisted the temptation to try purely to outhit Lendl. Instead, the depth and placement of his shots took priority over brute force. You could determine a game plan in use, and together with his tenacity it made him the champion.
The inherent danger in winning by sheer power is that you have nothing to fall back on if that fails. You are not accustomed to either employing strategy or thinking under pressure. You can only hit harder and take more risks.
Becker showed us the ultimate mental and physical combination of today's game. But he is an individual of great genius and charisma. So, with her dynamic brilliance, is Steffi Graf.
Less-skilled renditions of the power game have none of this appeal. Why? Because they lack dimension. There are no organic interpretations. One match resembles another: two players indistinguishable in style slugging it out with each other from the baseline. Big serves are followed by huge topspin ground strokes with practically no volleys.
The all-court player is virtually extinct. It's easy to trace the demise of the volley. As children start to play, they obviously begin with ground strokes. When the time comes to venture to the net, it's against other youngsters who are relatively experienced at the baseline, probably with strength and not much control. It is too hard to hold their own at the net so they retreat to familiar territory. Plus, they don't see too many superstars any more with a net game. So, the absence of players with volleying instincts or skills will be a self-perpetuating situation in pro tennis, unless some enlightened coach encourages them to persevere.
Tennis has a rich history of on-court improvisers. Now, only Miloslav Mecir stands out as a survivor of this eccentric breed. Gone are the characters from the past who entertained with their idiosyncrasies. There was Beppe Merlo, a minute Italian whose racquet was strung like spaghetti (not even al dente), who enticed his opponents into an intricate web of drop shots and lobs. And Frankie Durr, whose backhand, executed with an upside-down motion, found invisible openings down her opponent's sidelines, while her slow-motion service challenged our timing and concentration.
There was plenty of variety, both in players' personalities and the manner in which they played. Mass-produced tennis players began emerging only in the 70's, when media exposure made the game much more visible. Borg and Evert were the invincible superstars and role models for the next generation. Inevitably, the most obvious aspects of their games - topspin, two hands and patience at the baseline - were reproduced.
Soon after, technology gave us bigger racquets that not only made an awfully difficult game easier, but also generated more power. With the aid of television and slow-motion, technique has become more efficient at the top of the game.
Yet there are a lot of mediocre coaches out there, teaching limited versions of the game. They demand more topspin, however incorrectly produced. They crave more pace as an alternative to tactics. Hence the fascination with the wide-bodied racquet. It's a fabulous weapon if you have economical, well-produced shots, but its innate power is tricky to control.
This headlong pursuit of pace has also produced an unhealthy increase in injuries, especially among youngsters. Determined to out-topspin their idols, they have developed many more chronic tennis elbows, and wrists and shoulders than you ever saw in the past.
In the final analysis, it seems that only those of better natural selection and more compact technique can emerge at the top. This may mean that one must be a physical giant like Lendl or Becker to succeed today. The thought makes one yearn to see more of John McEnroe with his unmuscular, effortless speed and deft racquet handling. Maybe there'll never be another champion like Rod Laver, of small build but explosive strength. He was a complete player from the baseline and the net and he could win on all surfaces. He was instinctive and assured and never wavered mentally.
As we watched the women's final at the United States Open from the past-champions' box, Maria Bueno, the elegant Brazilian champion of the 1950's and 60's, remarked, ''Watch carefully, it may be 20 years before you see another great serve-volleyer.'' For a set and a half, Martina's flawless serve-and-volley game defeated Steffi's speed and power from the baseline. We all recognize Steffi's inordinate talent, but her game was succumbing to Martina's at its highest level of execution. Martina went on to lose the battle of minds, but also pertinent was that Steffi had to utilize the volley herself to win.
Maybe it won't be as long as 20 years for the pendulum to swing back. Maybe the tennis environmentalists will be able to work their magic on the game.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (71%); 

SUBJECT: TENNIS TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); 

PERSON: WADE, VIRGINIA BORIS BECKER (70%); 



425 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 32, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: CONNECTICUT OPINION;
How Schools Can Win Votes At the Polls

BYLINE: By Harold Levine; Harold Levine lives in Westport.

 BODY:
I WAS distressed to read recently that the Connecticut Association of Boards of Education was planning to deal with the rejection of school budgets this year in about half of the state's public school districts by running workshops and conferences with such titles as ''Passing the Budget'' and ''Winning at the Polls.'' What the school boards association must learn is that you must first win the confidence of your constituency before you can win at the polls.
The focus should not be on the budget, but rather, on a broad- based program of information throughout the school year. Too often the educational bureaucracy tends to pay attention to the public only when a budget vote is forthcoming, and then they try to sell the budget, instead of selling the value of the schools to the community. 
This year, school administrators should borrow the telephone company theme and ''reach out and touch someone.'' If public schools wish to regain the confidence and the support of the community they once had, they must not only continue to improv the quality of education, but also open their doors to the community and maintain a constant flow of communication.
Unfortunately, school officials have for years distanced themselves from the public. They often give the impression of not wanting public interference, putting up with the public only when necessary.
All that must change if schools expect to build a constituency of supporters of public education. School administrators must begin to reach out and touch the community. Our public schools must do a better job of informing the public 365 days a year on what is being accomplished in each and every classroom in the state before they can expect support at the polls. This may be difficult, since most educators have had little or no public relations experience. Therefore, as a starter, I would like to suggest an eight-point program for school administrators:
1. Institute a ''Breakfast with the Principal'' program. Each school principal would be required to set aside one hour a week to meet with invited guests. This would allow different community groups to learn firsthand what the school is trying to accomplish, and some problems it is encountering.
The guests could be medical professionals during one week, real estate agents the next week, then the parents of students in each grade level, and so on. This weekly program would give the principal an opportunity to meet with every social, political, economic, racial and religious group in the community.
2. Plan a Grandparents Day in every school. Much has been said about the growing elderly population and the unwillingness of elderly citizens to support public education. Well, here's an opportunity to make friends.
If every school in Connecticut invited the grandparents of its community to spend a day with the children, we would not only make friends for public education, but we would also build a greater support system for the local school. Retirees should be encouraged to volunteer for mentor programs and reading programs, helping with particularly difficult children, or just helping in the classroom.
3. Mail information about the schools to all residents of the community. As a former member of a school board, I am particularly interested in the public schools. I have lived in Westport for more than 10 years and, since we do not have children of school age, we have never received any information from the Westport public schools, except, of course, at school board election time.
It is the school board's responsibility to let everyone in the community know what is happening, and to not depend exclusively on local news reports. Those reports are too impersonal. If a resident is important enough to write to at school election time and budget time, that person should be considered important enough to get reports from the school throughout the year.
4. Develop mentoring programs by enlisting the assistance of the business community. Meet with the lawyers in town and create a mentor-in-the-law program. Do the same with doctors for a special health program, as well as retailers, manufacturers and other local businesses. The New York Alliance for the Public School is now supervising more than 105 mentoring programs in New York City. Information on how a local school system can set up its own mentoring program is available from the alliance.
5. Establish a speaker's bureau that provides a teacher or an administrator to address every local civic group during the school year. Be sure that all grades are represented. Remember, the public is just as interested in what you are accomplishing with preschool students as well as the high school program or the junior high music program.
6. Seek out a public relations professional from the community. Teachers and administrators cannot be expected to know how to write a good release, develop a photo opportunity or edit a school newsletter effectively. But a public relations, advertising or journalism professional within the community could save you time, money and frustration.
7. Prepare a videotape on a day in the life of a student or teacher. Use community resources and student talent for the preparation of the videotape. The tape should be given to the speaker's bureau as a wonderful introduction to its talks. Every group in town needs program material for its meetings. The Rotary, the Chamber of Commerce and garden clubs will probably be willing to book a speaker from the school system and allow the videotape to be shown. The tape would also be shown at all P.T.A. meetings and introduced at a special meeting for journalists.
8. Sponsor a community-wide survey to determine community attitudes toward the schools. Do it in October and use the results as a benchmark to evaluate the success of your public information program. Rerun the survey in October 1991 and again in 1993.
Seek out help from the community in preparing the survey. The School Boards Association could also take this on as a project and provide a questionnaire to each school district, allowing each district to add questions covering areas of their individual concern. A good survey should be able to tell you what you are doing right and what needs to be corrected. .
These are just a few ideas that can be immediately implemented so that next year fewer school districts will face negative attitudes from their communities.
The bottom line is that starting with the first day of school, all school personnel should be involved in bridging the gap between the school and the community - or, in reaching out to touch someone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATION, CONNECTICUT ASSN OF BOARDS OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); SCHOOL BOARDS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); GRANDPARENTS (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); AGING TRENDS (60%); AGING (60%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, HAROLD



426 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 20, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY OPINION;
Child Care: A Need That Keeps On Growing

BYLINE: By Norman Goldman; Norman Goldman, an educational consultant, lives in Pennington.

 BODY:
AS the number of working mothers increases daily, so does the need for child care.
In New Jersey, some 60 percent of the children between the ages of 6 and 13 have mothers who work. Four out of 10 New Jersey children under 6 have mothers who bring home a paycheck.
There are 1,850 child-care centers and programs with room for 105,000 children in the state. To some that may sound like a great number, until one realizes we have more than three times that number of children with working mothers. By 1990, it is expected there will be 450,000 children with working mothers. 
Unfortunately, the problems in providing child care are not easily solved. What role should Federal and state governments play? Can public schools be expected to cope with the additional burden placed upon them if they are to provide child care? How can agreement on the delivery of services between private vendors and public schools be reached? What is the responsibility of business to assist in this effort? And, finally, who will pay the bill?
The continuing influx of women into the work force may mark the next five to 10 years as the time for increasing the public school's role in providing child-care services. But not everyone agrees that public school programs can handle the problem. Some argue that schools may lack the room and resources to make quality child-care programs feasible.
Nevertheless, the notion of public schools' providing child care is receiving more attention these days. Simply put, schools would have to expand their hours and stay open all year long, while they provide quality day care for preschoolers and care before and after regular school hours for older children.
But there are critical questions. Can the schools, many of which are already overburdened, take on the added responsibility? Should they? Is there a line between a school's educational and care functions?
Child care in public schools is not a new idea. Day-care centers were financed in public schools when women went to work during World War II. Most closed when women returned to the home. Today's demographics may be making such alternatives worth exploring once again.
Experts say schools should be used to some extent to help fill the growing need for child care. Some school finance experts predict, however, that the cost of a publicly subsidized system of full-day child care approaches the magnitude of what we now spend on schools. Public subsidies for such programs, they project, should be concentrated on poor children, with sliding fee scales for middle-income children.
There are also concerns also about linking child care and education in the schools. Early childhood education advocates insist that such programs primarily provide activities that help a child's development, with emphasis on play and socialization. There is fear, however, that as programs multiply, academic pressures will bring about increased regimentation and create problems for young children.
In the business sector, New Jersey has 96 licensed, employer-sponsored or supported day-care centers. Hospitals, banks and insurance companies seem to be in the forefront of private-sector involvement. This is because these businesses are characterized by a short supply of labor and high growth.
Recently, a former Secretary of Labor, Ann McLaughlin, warned New Jersey corporations that too many employers were making too many excuses for not providing child care.
Companies have options to support workers' child-care needs by setting up on-premises facilities, financing centers in their community or issuing vouchers to workers.
No doubt about it, child care pays off for those companies providing it. It reduces employee turnover and rates of absenteeism, lifts employee morale and loyalty to a company and makes recruitment of new personnel easier.
Gov. Thomas H. Kean has advocated increasing private-sector commitment to child care. ''In my view,'' he said, ''the strength of the American family depends on child care. The health and welfare of children depends on child care. And increasingly, the success of American business depends on child care.''
In Washington, diverse proposals approved in June by the Senate and the House Education and Labor Committee and advocated by President Bush are intensifying debate this fall on how the Federal Government should subsidize child care.
The bill passed by the Senate would authorize $1.75 billion a year to increase the supply and enhance the affordability of child care. Federal funds, distributed through states, would be provided through grants, contracts and vouchers. The measure also includes an estimated $3 billion tax credit provision that would expand the existing dependent care tax credit.
The Administration labeled the bill ''a candidate for a veto'' despite compromises to accommodate the President with an expansion of the tax credit. The President opposes the $1.75 billion in direct subsidies to help parents pay for child care and to help states improve services.
Other critics say the legislation is unconstitutional, permitting Federal funds to be used to support sectarian child-care programs, including religious worship. It also does not require national standards for health, safety, quality or nondiscrimination.
The House Education and Labor Committee approved a vastly different bill, which would provide $1.7 billion to expand Head Start, establish school-based early childhood development and child-care programs, increase child-care services from infancy to school age and provide Federal assistance for training and renovations to meet child-care standards.
The House committee adopted an amendment to prohibit sectarian activity in programs. The House measure also prohibits discrimination in programs that accept Federal aid, and it does not use vouchers. It is due for consideration by the full House soon.
Meanwhile, some 80 child-care bills are pending in the New Jersey Legislature.
Governor Kean is credited with creating three child-care centers for government employees, signing into law a measure calling for a survey assessing the child-care needs of all state employees and establishing a child-care component in welfare reform.
Also cited are the state's child-care referral system and a child-care voucher program under way in seven counties as additional state initiatives.
But the Governor warned: ''The supply of child care must keep pace with demand. We are still searching for creative solutions for more child care.''
The need for child care grows, fueled by a demanding economy and changing life styles. An aware citizenry is coming to expect efforts that will provide quality programs and qualified personnel. This is becoming increasingly clear to policy makers at both state and national levels as well as in business and education.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; LABOR; WOMEN; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS CHILD CARE (94%); WORKING MOTHERS (93%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); LABOR FORCE (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDMAN, NORMAN



427 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 20, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Keeping the Pitch Where It Should Be

 BODY:
The Lubo Opera Company is to be commended for its efforts to standardize the pitch to which orchestras tune (''As Pitch in Opera Rises, So Does Debate,'' Aug. 13). The relentlessly upward wavering of the ''concert A'' is a deception that jades our perception of performance. It is as unworthy a practice as grade inflation is in the classroom or as anabolic steroids are on the playing field. It is why so many foreign recordings sound tense and, frankly, out of tune.
Musicians who want to sound brilliant should play more brilliantly. They should not resort to the cheap thrills of faux transposition.
 
KEVIN E. VITTING, M.D.
 Glen Rock

GRAPHIC: Photo of Jodi Laski-Mihova in ''Tosca''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (65%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: LUBO OPERA CO

SUBJECT: OPERA OPERA (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (88%); MUSIC (88%); STEROIDS (53%); 

PERSON: VITTING, KEVIN E (DR)



428 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

Sept. 17, 1989, Sunday, National Edition

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Focus: Mountain View, Calif.;
Retrieving an Identity in a New Downtown

BYLINE: By JOHN McCLOUD

 BODY:
A NEW City Hall and an arts complex rising on the main street of Mountain View, Calif., a suburb of San Jose, represent more than just a demonstration of civic pride. They are evidence of a community's commitment to reversing a decades-long pattern of development in which this city and neighboring Silicon Valley towns lost their identities in suburban sprawl.
Besides a loss of identity, the area has also lost much of the comfort and convenience its residents initially sought in the suburbs. Homes, workplaces and shopping areas are separated by increasingly congested roads. Long-distance commuting has become so common than many suburban towns in the San Francisco Bay area have begun to wonder whether the traditional building of city centers does not make more sense. 
''People are tired of long commutes to work,'' said Dan Murphy, a project manager for the Prometheus Development Company in San Mateo, which is building City Center-Park Place, a $79 million commercial and residential project two blocks west of the new Mountain View Civic Center. ''People are looking for housing opportunities closer to work and the reverse, work opportunities closer to housing.''
Lucille Hise, principal planner for Sunnyvale, this city's neighbor to the south, said:
''The job-housing balance is a big issue for this whole area. People are beginning to recognize that by putting things closer together you might possibly eliminate some of the commute, which in turn would eliminate some of the congestion we deal with.''
In a twist, suburbs in this region are starting to choose to create, sometimes from scratch, traditional downtowns.
''Image is a major concern,'' said Ken Alsman, the acting director of planning in Mountain View. ''Our plan for downtown came from the community. And one thing that came out very strongly was that there should be a clear sense that it is a downtown, that it should look like a downtown.''
''People wanted stores along the street and sidewalks and cafes,'' he continued. ''They wanted parks and businesses and public offices, everything you associate with a traditional downtown. And they wanted it to be a place where you could park your car and walk around. Everybody seems to be really sick of driving.'' Mountain View is investing $50 million in downtown improvements, including building the civic center, a garage and a park and swimming pool and in redesigning and landscaping Castro Street, the main thoroughfare for shops and restaurants, to make it more pleasant for pedestrians.
The city's Downtown Coordinator, Stacey Holden, who helps promote the renewal, said private investment along Castro Street was more than triple what the city has invested.
IN addition to the Prometheus project - two six-story 115,000-square-foot office buildings with ground-floor stores and a separate 370-unit residential rental complex with mainly three- and four-story buildings - four other office-retail buildings have recently gone up on the street, and a second large mixed-use project has been proposed. Ms. Hise said Sunnyvale had also begun to work on its downtown. ''We really don't have what you would call an urban core,'' she said. ''Mountain View is much further along than we are. But it's clear that people want the same thing here. We have a downtown plan under study right now, and one of the most important things we're looking at is increasing the intensity of uses in the downtown area.''
Sunnyvale intends to replace a prospering shopping center with a $150 million complex of offices, condominiums, a hotel, restaurants, shops, a multiscreen cinema and a 950-seat performing-arts theater. The 15-acre project will encompass six city blocks.
Campbell, a town that not too long ago was best known for its prune yards - plum orchards and plants to turn plums into prunes - also hopes to turn a small strip-shopping district into a bona fide downtown. And in Palo Alto, home to Stanford University and one of the few communities in this area that has managed to retain a strong sense of identity, the city is putting finishing touches on an urban-design plan intended to make an already functioning downtown even stronger.
Local boosters point to the recent completion of several residential complexes and the opening of a large supermarket as a sign that downtown Palo Alto is becoming what planners like to call a 24-hour environment.
Even San Jose, a city that many have called a small Los Angeles because of its sprawl and lack of focus, is spending close to $1 billion on redeveloping its faded downtown, included a light-rail system.
Mountain View and Sunnyvale are negotiating to extend the system, a proposal that, Mr. Alsman said, would have been derided a few years ago.
Residential and commercial growth is leaving diminishing vacant land. Not only have land prices escalated steeply, but the remaining open space is also being fought over by a growing caucus of environmentalists seeking park land and wildlife refuges. A local group, the Greenbelt Alliance, recently reversed its policy and fervently endorsed higher-density land use in developed areas.
''IT'S clear that we can't suddenly stop growth from happening,'' said Larry Orman, the director of the group. ''Only by increasing the density of existing cities and towns can we preserve what open space we still have.''
Rising prices for housing also contribute to the trend, said Mr. Murphy, whose company is developing a mixed-use project, Cupertino City Center, nearby.
''Very few people can afford to enter the housing market now,'' he said. ''And we discovered there's a great demand for rental housing close to where residents work. A long commute may be worth it, if it means owning your own home. But nobody wants to drive long distances if he's just renting.''
Mr. Murphy said that by the middle of last month, his company had leased 290 of the 370 apartments approved in Mountain View. The rents range from $875 to $1,500 a month for one- , two- and three-bedroom units. He also said he expected many renters would work in the office buildings, a pattern he has seen in a similar project his company built in nearby Santa Clara.
The desire for community identity, more than convenience and necessity, seems to inspire, at least in part, the renewed interest in old-fashioned downtowns.
''I myself am from the East Coast,'' Ms. Hise said. ''And I have a vision of Main Street as the center of the community, the place where everybody meets. It's something I missed coming to this area. And other people seem to be missing it, too.
''People want to have some civic pride, some community image. They want a place they can point to and say, 'This is where I live. This is my home.' ''

GRAPHIC: photos of new housing and part of City Center, left, under construction on Castro Street in Mountain View, suburb of San Jose, Calif.; the new City Hall and arts complex (NYT/Terrence McCarthy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (96%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY GUARDIAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MOUNTAIN VIEW (CALIF)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE SUBURBS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); RESTAURANTS (85%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); RETAILERS (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (73%); 

PERSON: MCCLOUD, JOHN DAN MURPHY (56%); 



429 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

Sept. 17, 1989, Sunday, National Edition

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 3; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL NOTEBOOK: PACIFIC PALISADES, CALIF.;
Renovating Older Homes

BYLINE: By KATHY SHOCKET

 BODY:
THE gutting and razing of older houses for the development of expensive single-family homes is moving forward at an unusually rapid pace in this well-to-do community in the Santa Monica Mountains in the northwestern Los Angeles region.
Longtime residents who do not want to leave and buyers of older homes account for 80 percent of all the activity in new construction or renovation of homes, said Lila Gordon, a real estate agent for Corliss Westside Properties. The remainder is generated by developers who build new homes and renovate old ones on speculation. 
''Many of our existing homes are small and have outlived their economic life,'' Ms. Gordon said. ''People want bigger homes and, moreover, want to maintain the quality of life here.''
Older one-story homes, most with two bedrooms and one bathroom, rarely sell for less than $600,000. They are being replaced by two-story, three- to four-bedroom homes that sell for $1 million and up.
Stephen Love, a homeowner here and a partner in Solnik & Ward & Partners, a real estate concern, buys and replaces or remodels about 10 homes a quarter, making about a 75 percent profit on resales. He said he recently bought a home for $700,000, added about $200,000 in improvements and expects to sell it for more than $1.3 million.
Pacific Palisades has a population of about 36,000, with an average household income of $136,400. Homes are on lots that average 10,000 square feet, and architectural styles range from California bungalows to Mediterranean.
The trend toward razing older homes is spurred by rising land values. Brokers estimate that land makes up 80 percent of a property's value. Lots, which are scarce, start at $500,000, Ms. Gordon said. A lot she sold for $400,000 last year sold for $195,000 five years ago.
The Palisades Civic League Board must approve exterior renovations or replacements of the 4,000 homes in the original tract of land developed as Pacific Palisades.
There are 19 homeowners on the board, elected by members of the Pacific Palisades Civic League, which comprises 200 homeowners, business owners and employees. The board receives 20 applications a month from homeowners and developers.
The village, which is 15 minutes from downtown Los Angeles, dates from 1922, when the Methodist Episcopal Church developed the area as affordable housing for its members.

GRAPHIC: photo of replacement house on Miami Way in Pacific Palisades, Calif. (NYT/Kathy Shocket)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PACIFIC PALISADES (CALIF)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MOUNTAINS (72%); TRENDS (69%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (64%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (64%); 

PERSON: SHOCKET, KATHY



430 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 25, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: NORTHEAST NOTEBOOK: Bridgton, Me.;
Condos Rising On Site of Inn

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE

 BODY:
A LAKESIDE condominium project is being developed on the site of a former inn in this little town in Maine's western mountains. The complex, Moose Pond Village, nestled behind birches and evergreens on nine acres on Moose Pond, will include 19 units of 2,700 square feet priced at $275,000.
Seven of the nine units built so far have been sold, said Peg Miller. Mrs. Miller and her husband, Ken, owned the inn, which was built in 1939 near the base of a Pleasant Mountain ski area. They are partners with two others in developing the project, for which the inn was razed. 
Bridgton was a center for the smaller towns in the area, but lost favor in the 1970's, when Windham, to the east, and North Conway, N.H., to the west, began to develop shopping centers and outlet stores. Bridgton then became popular for vacation homes, mostly single-family houses beside the six lakes and ponds in the 80-square-mile town.
''This has created a new economy,'' said Town Manager Philip Tarr. Through this decade, he said, the town has granted about 70 building permits a year for vacation homes, many selling for about $300,000.
In 1985, the first condominium project, an 80-unit development called Lakeside, down the road from Moose Pond Village, was built and sold quickly, said Mr. Tarr. Another lakefront condominium project, Secret Harbor on Long Lake, began about two years ago, and about 10 of the 40 units approved by the town have been built.
NE Properties of Yarmouth is developing its third vacation-home project in Bridgton, an 80-unit condominium beside a nine-hole golf course. The president of NE Properties, Thomas H. Saliba, said six of the 16 units built have been sold. The units, ranging from 1,700 to 2,700 square feet, sell for $199,000 to $240,000.
Mr. Saliba said his father, Jacob, chairman of the Katy Industries conglomerate, bought the golf course and an adjacent 600 acres 30 years ago with the expectation that someday people would want to live beside golf courses. Two years ago, NE Properties began developing the complex, the Highlands, which was designed by Gary Lowe of Boston to blend in with a series of nearby stately Victorian houses.
NE Properties began its first development, Sunny Brook Farm, a 53-lot subdivision on 200 acres, 10 years ago. In 1983, NE built an 85-lot subdivision on a 700-acre tract on Highland Lake. It has 25 lots remaining, at prices from $30,000 to $200,000.
With the decline of the real-estate business in the Northeast, Mr. Saliba has postponed additional construction on the condominiums.

GRAPHIC: Part of Secret Harbor complex, where 10 of 40 units have been built on Long Lake, Bridgton, Me. (The New York Times/Deam Abramson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KT (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3634 ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES & FANS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KATY INDUSTRIES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRIDGTON (ME); MOOSE POND VILLAGE (BRIDGTON, ME)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (93%); CONDOMINIUMS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); GOLF (86%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (86%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RETAILERS (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); SKIING (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (73%); LAKES (73%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (68%); BUILDING PERMITS (68%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN



431 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 8, Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: Live Music Dying Out in Casinos

BYLINE: By OLGA WICKERHAUSER

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY

 BODY:
AFTER a year without work, George Hernandez has given up trying to make a living in Atlantic City. He has sold his house, packed up his belongings and bought a one-way plane ticket to Los Angeles, where, at the ag of 58, he hopes to start a new life.
In leaving, he joins hundreds of frustrated and disappointed professional musicians who have abandoned Atlantic City in the last couple of years as one casino after another has replaced live performers with tapes. Today, in this entertainment-oriented town, not even the best musicians can find work.
George Fognano, president of the Atlantic City chapter of the American Federation of Musicians, says only 25 of 750 members work on any given weekend.
''There is nothing here for musicians,'' Mr. Hernandez said. ''This town is so dry.'' 
Five years ago, when he came to Atlantic City from Las Vegas, Mr. Hernandez, a pianist, was riding high. He had played with all the stars at the Tropicana and other Las Vegas casinos, and had been musical director for the Carpenters back in the 1970's. In Atlantic City he got a job right away as musical director at Trump Castle. For three years he led 12 other musicians in the casino's gala revue, ''City Lights.''
Then last summer, he and the other musicians were laid off with two-week's notice. The casino was planning a new revue, ''Glitter,'' which would use only canned music. ''They told us it was a matter of economics,'' Mr. Hernandez said. At the time, Trump Castle was one of the last of Atlantic City's 12 casinos that used live musicians. There was no where for Mr. Hernandez and the orchestra to go.
Several of the younger musicians took jobs substitute teaching or selling auto parts. ''What could I do,'' Mr. Hernandez said. ''I've been a musician for 35 years. I don't know how to do anything else.''
After a year of living off savings, he is moving to Los Angeles where he has a lead on a job arranging soundtracks for television movies.
Mr. Fognano accuses casino owners and politicians of betraying musicians, who helped bring gambling to Atlantic City in the first place.
''When they were trying to get the gambling referendum passed,'' Mr. Fognano said, ''we played rallies all over the state - for nothing, free! Everytime a politician spoke somewhere there was a live band playing behind him. All free.''
Edward Colanzi, a former Atlantic City Commissioner whose job it was to enlist the help of labor in getting the gambling referendum passed, says musicians did more than any other single group to bring legalized gambling to Atlantic City in 1978.
''The musicians put up money - money they didn't really have,'' Mr. Colanzi said. ''For 10, 12, 15 weeks they stood in malls from the moment they opened until 10 at night, talking to people. They traveled all over the state at their own expense. The musicians helped bring casino gambling to Atlantic City with their hard work. These casino owners didn't bring it here. Now because of the greed of casino owners, they're out of work.''
Musicians worked hard, Mr. Colanzi and Mr. Fognano say, because they were promised there would be plenty of jobs for them when the casinos opened. Each casino has at least one Broadway-sized showroom and several lounges.
 
Union Membership Drops
Musicians apparently believed the promise. After the first casinos opened, they flocked to Atlantic City from all over the country. Mr. Fognano notes that membership in the local union rose from 350 in 1978, when gambling was legalized, to 950 a couple of years later. Today he says it is down to 750 and dropping as musicians, like Mr. Hernandez, leave town.
In the beginning, as part of the promise to musicians, casinos were required by law to use live music in showrooms seating 350 or more. In 1981 however, the State Casino Control Commission overturned the law after casinos challenged it.
For the musicians, that was the beginning of the end. Gradually one casino after another replaced orchestras with tapes.
Also, Mr. Fognano says, casinos started reducing the number and size of shows and filling music lounges with slot machines.
It costs about $600,000 a year for a 13-piece orchestra, like the one Mr. Hernandez led, working six days a week, 52 weeks a year, Mr. Fognano said. Trump Castle's total operating expenses for 1987 - the last year they used an orchestra - were $204 million, according to the Casino Association of New Jersey.
But, says David Gardner, a vice president of the association, ''money is not the important issue here.''
''Frequently, tape music is better than live music,'' he said. ''Advances in recording technology in the last 10 years since the casinos opened have been great. We have to use whatever makes the act better.''
Mr. Fognano and his members scoff at that argument. ''Casino people are bottom-line oriented people,'' said Mike Pedicin, a saxophone player who has worked in Atlantic City for eight years. ''They're not patrons of the arts.''
Since 1981, Atlantic City musicians have been trying to bring back the old Live Music Law.
Last December, after failing to get a state law passed, they petitioned the Casino Control Commission to reverse its eight-year-old ruling. But in May the commission turned them down in a 5-to-0 vote. The commission chairman, Walter N. Read, argued that bringing back the old law ''would impose financial hardship on casino licensees without any concomitant benefit to the public at large.''
Mr. Fognano says his union will take their cause back to the State Legislature.
Mr. Gardner of the Casino Association says the musicians are wrong to blame the casinos for their troubles.
''It was the casinos that put entertainment in Atlantic City back on the map,'' Mr. Gardner said. ''Before casinos opened the only entertainment in Atlantic City was dodging seagulls. I don't know how many musicians were working when they were dodging seagulls.
''Besides, people in the entertainment industry should be more flexible. They should be prepared to move.'' Many Atlantic City musicians are doing that just. ''In the last two years,'' Mr. Pedicin said, ''I'd say 85 to 90 percent of the guys have left town or taken day jobs.''
Mr. Pedicin says he considers himself one of the lucky ones because he works about one weekend a month. ''But that's not enough for me to survive, or for anyone else to survive,'' he said.
Ted Greenberg, 29, a drummer and bass player who moved to Atlantic City from New York straight out of music school eight years ago, says he is ready to leave. ''First chance I get,'' he said, ''I'm going to get out.
''In the last three years, I've made less money every year. It's just a shame. The whole point of bringing casinos to New Jersey was to create jobs, and now everybody's forgotten about that.''
Marvin Rose's engagement calendar tells the story for most musicians here. ''In 1986,'' said Mr. Rose, 63, a percussionist, ''I had 26 engagements a year, mostly three-day weekends. In 1987, I had 16 engagements. Last year I had 12, and this year, I've had one in May.''
The point on which musicians and casino owners all agree is that Atlantic City audiences do not care if they hear live music or canned. And, the musicians say privately, as long as audiences do not demand live music, the musicians do not have much chance of winning their fight.
''People come here for one reason - to gamble,'' Mr. Pedicin said. ''They don't know that live music is supposed to be part of the show.'' And that more than anything makes Mr. Hernandez sad. ''It's such a shame,'' he said. ''They are missing so much. There's such a difference between hearing live music - with its excitement, its emotion - and a flat tape. They might as well stay at home and listen to a tape recorder.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of pianist George Hernandez; drummer Ted Greenberg (NYT/Ray Fisk)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSICIANS, AMERICAN FEDERATION OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTIC CITY (NJ)

SUBJECT: MUSIC; LABOR SINGERS & MUSICIANS (95%); MUSIC (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); GAMING (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); CASINOS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (76%); POLITICS (75%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (71%); REFERENDUMS (60%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: WICKERHAUSER, OLGA; FOGANO, GEORGE



432 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 17, 1989

SECTION: Section 5; Page 15, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2652 words

HEADLINE: Japan on $100 a Day - or Less

BYLINE: By EMILY ARNOLD McCULLY; EMILY ARNOLD McCULLY, who lives in New York, is a novelist and writer and illustrator of children's books. Her most recent work is ''Zaza's Big Break'' (Harper & Row).

 BODY:
WHEN you tell people you are going to Japan, they are likely to say they know someone who paid $6 for a cup of coffee there and wonder how you can subject yourself to such an economy. The language and culture are so forbidding, so strange - and those prices are somehow openly hostile. But if you go, you will discover that traveling on a budget in Japan is not only possible but also easy and surprisingly comfortable.
I recently undertook a two-week trip through the islands of Honshu, Kyushu and Shikoku with my 21-year-old son, Nat. We spent less than $100 a day each, which covered food, lodging and transportation and exposed us to Japanese customs with their many amenities as no package tour with Western-styled hostelries could ever have done.
Our strategy was to stay in small, family-run inns called minshukus, which usually provide two meals with a night's rest and a traditional bath. We spent all our waking hours sightseeing on foot or from trains and our second greatest bargain was the Japan Rail Pass, which is sold abroad for periods of one to three weeks and can save hundreds of dollars over regular fares. In 11 days Nat and I visited Takayama, Kanazawa, Kyoto, Hagi, Beppu and Usuki, Hiroshima, Miyajima and Takamatsu. 
The barebones trip, while it hardly acquainted us with the artful graciousness of high Japanese hospitality, insured that very little we experienced was like it is back home. The old ways may be fading, and the artistic, historic and natural monuments often obscured by dreary and dazzling improvements (as is true all over the world), but minshukus preserve traditions of courtesy, care and cleanliness. They differ from the more elegant ryokans in that they do not strive to provide exceptional service or ambience - no maid will lay out your futon or assist you in the bath - but then you are spared the possible clumsiness of being waited on in stark ignorance of the nuances of protocol. Minshukus cost less than half as much as ryokans.
We made our reservations through the English-speaking Minshuku Center in Tokyo. All inns post signs in English stating hours and procedures, but I resorted to mime to determine much else. We had the impression that our hosts and hostesses had long since suffered the worst a gaijin (foreigner) could bring about and were quite prepared to deal with us.
Business was surprisingly slow in mid-May. Some inns were deserted and even in Kyoto, where running shoes in the foyer denoted Westerners within, we could have found rooms at the last minute by inquiring at the Tourist Information Center near the station.
I was afraid that taking our meals in minshukus would restrict us unduly, but all were humble yet savory and beguilingly presented versions of the kaiseki-ryori, or traditional full-course dining, in which seven or eight small dishes are served with rice and soup. Some meals were better than others, but even the most routine were superior to what was available elsewhere for the same price and spared us uncertain searching and guessing.
Nat and I set forth early on a Sunday morning and found the Tokyo train station carpeted with buzzing uniformed schoolchildren on their haunches, all bound for a week of clangorous communion with Old Japan. Everywhere we went we were hailed with greetings and offered hundreds of hands to shake, but somehow this sea of pilgrims never boarded the same trains we did.
We were delighted to find that Japan Railways lived up to its superb reputation for comfort and punctuality. Seats were well upholstered, windows large and clean, personnel helpful and restrooms clean. All kinds of drinks, from Scotch to a high-fiber health tonic and obentos, or lunch boxes, were sold on platforms and trains. A blind choice usually yielded something like rice, meat or fish sausage or cake, pickled vegetables, sweet stewed soybeans and smoked or grilled fish. Sandwiches are usually available, too, the egg salad being the most easily identified. Bentos cost from $5 to $10.
Trains are gaily painted and immaculate and some tracks are lined with flower boxes. Frequent announcements sustain the railroad's reputation as the ''missing mother,'' reminding passengers to remember their umbrellas and so on. Obento vendors, exiting a car, will turn, bow and murmur acknowledgement of the ''interruption.'' We had to stand only once, on a rackety three-car train on Kyushu, which was packed with waggish members of the geriatric Tai Sai Walk Club, in bright orange caps.
Minshukus are regulated but are not all alike. In Beppu we stayed in an eight-story hot-springs resort. In Takamatsu, arriving exhausted in the evening, we found the lobby dismantled for renovation, tarps on the floors and stairs and the air thick with noxious fumes. Our hostess led us, protesting and gagging, up three debris-littered flights and flung open a door to reveal perhaps the only room they had finished - a perfect, specimen hotel suite, with bath and toilet all to ourselves, fresh flowers and a pot of tea.
Our first night out of Tokyo, in Takayama, was one of the best. The 100-year-old Yamashita Inn described itself as a ''guest house with athletic facilities in a village of farmer's market,'' and lay in the foothills among cucumber plots. The meals were superb and included fish, vegetables and fruit from the inn's own gardens and waters. We ate, not in our room, but around an old charcoal roasting pit with iron pot suspended from an ancient fish hinge.
Dining on tatami mats among strangers can induce serious leg cramps and we did a lot of constrained shifting. Another hazard is runny nose and sneezing due to sipping soup from the bowl. It is considered vulgar in the extreme to blow your nose at the table. One can only dab discreetly. Everything was delicious - salt-roasted whole baby carp, sweet pickled beans, potato in mustard, raw white fish, eel, grated daikon, seaweed and spinach, yam, tempura, fiddlehead ferns, broth with soba noodles and quantities of rice. The innkeeper kept the women supplied with beer and sake and these they tried to share with us.
They were already clad in their yukatas (kimonos supplied by the minshuku for lounging and sleeping), having bathed before dinner. It was out of the ordinary for us to take our turn after the meal, but perfectly acceptable. First we retired to our room, took our futons from the cupboard (and replaced them the next morning), changed into yukatas and descended a steep stair passing communal sinks and toilets to the bath. The old-fashioned tub was set into rocks beneath a shrine, some dwarf trees and shrubs and a window to the garden. Three or four people might use it at once, but you would never bathe with strangers in a minshuku.
The routine had already been made perfectly clear: you perch on a little stool on the well-drained floor and douse yourself with water from spigots or showerhead along the wall or with a basin dipped into the tub. Soap is always available and a tiny towel is sometimes supplied. Once you are thoroughly washed and rinsed, you lower yourself into the hot tub (probably 90 to 100 degrees and adjustable) and sit, water to the chin, to be deeply relaxed and purified by a ritual rooted in ancient religion.
The quality of this experience, however, also varied. In Kyoto, where the minshuku specialized in meeting Westerners' needs and offered instant coffee, eggs cooked to order and tasteless white toast for breakfast, a washer-dryer, international telephone and English newspaper, the bath was lukewarm and tinted green. An establishment catering to Japanese will have no need of such denaturing. Some baths were made of molded plastic or stainless steel and held one person, others were tiled and accommodated a nuclear family. In Beppu we bathed outdoors beneath the sun and the stars in belching mud and vaporous sulfur pools.
Japanese breakfasts are involving, filling and nutritious. We were told that eggs and toast could be ordered in advance, but that would be very foolish. Eggs were a staple of every breakfast but either raw or cooked hours earlier (the idea seemed to be that the food was once hot). Much more appetising were the smoked salmon or trout, miso soup, rice and various little dishes. One morning we ate just-picked, superlative strawberries, on another local mikan orange and melon. (An orange bought from a grocer cost $2).
A craving for coffee usually coincided with sore feet and erased the prohibition against the $6 cup. (It was really more like $3.) In an air-conditioned coffee shop with bordello decor you may lounge for as long as you like. Coffee can be had more cheaply at McDonald's or Mr. Donut (the latter with the seldom-seen bottomless cup) and is the only excuse for entering either of these establishments. A great variety of drinks in small bottles can be bought for 70 cents from vending machines. I grew fond of green plum juice.
When we stopped for lunch or dinner, it might be at a restaurant displaying plastic replicas of its set menus so that we got exactly what we pointed at. A typical set, or teishoku, includes rice, soup and a main course of something like curry or stir-fry. Sushi bars were an affordable treat when we contented ourselves with three or four pieces. Both these options were in the $6 to $8 range. Ramen or soba noodle shops offer a lunch of big bowls of rich broth with noodles and meat and vegetable for $3 or $4. Many train stations contain sleek shopping arcades with inexpensive restaurants ($5 to $10 a meal). Nat was visited twice by the devil urge for Western food and ordered fried chicken and barbecued beef. These dishes, though inexpensive at $5 to $7 a serving, proved far more unpleasantly strange than any of the local exotica we tried.
Japan is liberally supplied and immaculate in the matter of public toilets. Every museum, municipal building, garden, park, station, train and temple had restrooms, and sometimes a commode, although there is nothing mystifying about the Japanese version, which is straddled, and looks like a urinal set in the floor. Some toilets supply paper but travelers are advised to pack tissues and a handkerchief to dry their hands.
If there are dollars left over for souvenirs, it is best to make educated purchases in craft shops in prefectural museums or public gardens, such as the ones in Kanazawa and Takamatsu. These are official craft displays and assure authenticity, quality and fair price. Lots of little papier-mache toys and charms, dolls, paper items and packaged foodstuffs can be had for under $10.
Standard rates for minshukus are $35.75 a person with two meals, calculated at a rate of 140 yen to the dollar, but a few charge a little more or less and all offer discounts if you skip one or both meals. We spent roughly $28 to $52 a night on lodging. In Beppu the minshuku cost $46.50 a night and our meals were served in our room. But I found it compromising to be waited on by an old woman on her knees, even though she grinned roguishly and kidded my son.
In Takamatsu, on the island of Shikoku, our pace relaxed. This was the last stop before returning to Tokyo, and the business leg of my trip. We spent the morning strolling the paths through plum orchards and glades and over arching bridges in the classical hill garden called Ritsurin Koen. Later a heart-stopping bus ride that rocked along the rim of a hairpin climb to the top of the Yashima Plain deposited us 400 yards up at one of the 88 sacred pilgrimage temples of the eighth-century monk Kobo-Daishi. Along the summit there was a spectacular view of the Inland Sea. We had already seen it, close up, from a steamer, in the rain. Now it lay far below, the islands silent shadows, the harbor and sprawling city vague and delicate looking. I lost all sense of time. The humps and cones scattered to infinity were dim, feminine, inviting yet aloof. I longed to sail from one mysterious island to the next and indulged this fantasy to the point of sweet regret. A group of young salarymen - junior executives - appeared and boisterously hurled clay discs out over the edge, competing in an old custom. Then a mother and daughter took feeble turns and collapsed in giggles while their handsome guide watched languidly. The water was hammered silver and the receding islands paled until they vanished. We tore ourselves away in time to catch the last express bullet train, from Okayama for Tokyo.
My glimpse of Japan had been on the order of the mini-kaiseki, a nibble here and a nibble there, just suggesting the grandeur of a true banquet.
 
TIPS ON BULLET TRAINS, BUSES, MINSHUKUS AND MONEY
 
Train Travel
Once we had agreed on where we wanted to go during our two weeks, my son performed the daunting task of coordinating train schedules in one of the world's most extensive rail networks. We then verified his work at the Japan Rail Travel Service Center in the Tokyo Station.
Timetables and basic train information are available from the Japan National Tourist Organization in the United States and so are suggested itineraries, but checking at the Travel Service Center in Tokyo insured our course for every leg of the journey.
We got seat reservations at no added cost in no-smoking cars and advice on how to make connections.
All stations have Green Windows offering travel advice, in English in the major cities, and Tourist Information Centers are also equipped to guide rail riders.
 
Rail Pass
The Japan Rail Pass puts a premium on covering lots of ground and taking full advantage of the bullet train routes, which carry a stiff surcharge without it. In some locations the pass can be used for buses and ferries. Passengers must show the pass to board a train and remember to flash it again to get out of the station.
The two-week pass, which can be bought from travel agents or from Japan Airlines, costs $316 in Ordinary Class.
Buses on many buses in Japan a machine spits out a ticket when you board at the rear. When you exit at the front you match the number on your ticket with numbers on a board above the driver. You then pay the amount that corresponds to your number and drop the money and ticket in a box. Most bus lines originate at the local train station and instructions from the Minshuku Center indicated which line we should take. The driver or other passengers alerted us to our stop. We always had names and numbers written down to show people, if we had questions.
 
Getting Help
The Japan National Tourist Organization operates Tourist Information Centers in Tokyo, Kyoto and at Narita Airport, where personnel speak English and are equipped to deal with almost anything. In Tokyo the address is 6-6 Yurakucho 1-Chome, Chiyoda-ku (telephone 502-1461). In Kyoto the center is at Kyoto Tower Building, Higashi-Shiokojicho, Shimogyo-ku; 371-5649. At Narita the center is in the terminal building (32-8711) The Minshuku Center Headquarters is at Kotsu-kaikan 2-10-1, Yurakucho, Chiyo-daku, Tokyo 100; 216-6556. The center will only make reservations with minshukus with which it is associated. Travelers can be sure that those the center recommends meet standards of safety and cleanliness.
A booklet called ''Minshukus in Japan'' listing 270 inns can be obtained free of charge from the Japan National Tourist Organization at 630 Fifth Avenue, Suite 2101, New York, N.Y. 10111; 212-757-5640. The organization also puts out a free booket called ''The Tourist's Handbook: Practical Ways to Relieve Your Language Problems'' that includes a section on dealing with inns and hotels.
 
The Currency
Japan's is a cash society - traveler's checks must be converted at a bank or at special counters in department stores. I cashed mine in stores, where service was courteous and fast (not the case in banks). Money can also be changed at Japanese banks in the United States before you leave. - E. A. McC.

GRAPHIC: Bullet train passes by Fukuyama Castle in Hiroshima Prefecture; the 100-year-old Yamashita Inn in Takayama (pg. 15); bento boxes can be bought on the train or the platform; passengers waiting for a train at Takayama (pg. 16) (Paul Hosefros); map of Japan highlighting Japan Alps National Park

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SHIKOKU, JAPAN (92%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (90%); CHUGOKU, JAPAN (57%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; HONSHU (JAPAN); KYUSHU (JAPAN); SHIKOKU (JAPAN)

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (74%); TOUR PACKAGES (71%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (69%); 

PERSON: MCCULLY, EMILY ARNOLD



433 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Oil Cleanup Brings Sad Prosperity to Village

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ENGLISH BAY, Alaska, Sept. 14

 BODY:
Instead of hanging salmon to dry this month, as Aleut natives have done for centuries here on the toe of the Kenai Peninsula, John Kvasnikoff was putting up a $3,000 television satellite dish on the bluff next to his home above the sea.
A few houses away, Jeff Evans, his hair painted green, churned up the road with his new $1,500 ''Fat Cat'' motorbike, portable stereo headphones over his ears. In years past, he would be storing food for the winter.
''Things have gotten really weird around here since the oil spill,'' said Mr. Evans, who is known as the native James Dean in this hidden village of 170 people. ''A lot of people are getting drunk again. There's just too much money and too much stress.'' 
While the Exxon Corporation's $1 billion push to clean beaches fouled by the March 24 oil spill has ended, the social and cultural disruption in villages that have existed for hundreds of years without radical interruption is just being seen. Is More Than Summer Ending? The modern world had been closing in on English Bay and other native villages, but with glacial slowness. The oil spill and the resulting sea of money have accelerated the process, so that English Bay now seems caught on the cusp of history. A visitor has the sense that much of the village's traditional way of life is fading forever with the last days of summer.
Food to get the people through this winter was donated by other native villages, with the cost underwritten by Exxon. But it is not clear what next season, or the season after that, will bring; biologists do not know when the people will be able to harvest fish, seals and shellfish as they did before.
Oil from the 11-million-gallon spill and money from the Exxon corporate coffers has changed life, for better or worse, in a half-dozen villages where people had been living comfortably off nothing more than the land and the sea.
The cleanup that brought money did not create any permanent jobs. If the villagers cannot harvest the sea, they may have to seek work in the cities, once their savings dry up. Those who choose to remain in the villages may end up on welfare.
Binge drinking of alcohol, a consistent problem in native communities, has risen dramatically in some hamlets where it was thought to have been conquered. Emergencies brought about by mental and emotional distress have tripled in native villages on Kodiak Island, health officials say.
''Ever since summer, when we couldn't gather our food because of the oil, there's been a lot of alcohol and drugs, and stress,'' said Roy Evans, the village public safety officer. ''People here are fishermen. They weren't educated to be oil cleaners.''
Money earned cleaning up oil has made life here easier but, many natives say, not better.
''We are starting to see - what do you call them? - couch potatoes,'' said Vincent Kvasnikoff, the chief of English Bay.
Cut off from the rest of the world by a fortress of glaciers, active volcanoes and the big moat of Cook Inlet, English Bay appears at first glance to be a sort of Alaskan version of Shangri-La. Five crystal clear lakes, surrounded by walls of virgin spruce forests, drain the mountains above town.
There are no roads in and out of English Bay, which the Russians stumbled upon in the 1740's. They built a fort here and converted the people to the Russian Orthodox Church, the only religion still practiced by most villagers in their blue onion-domed house of worship.
Only six people have full-time jobs, including three in the school. Before the spill, everybody else in English Bay lived off the bounty of the sea: seals, salmon, halibut, shellfish, octopusesi, seaweed, barnacles and snails. They also picked berries in the late summer, and hunted for moose, deer and bear. Before the cleanup, the only money that came into the village was from sales of surplus salmon at the end of the season.
Most of this state's 65,000 native people - the three major ethnic groups are Eskimos in the North, Indians in the interior and Aleuts along the sSouthern cCoast - do not live off subsistence hunting and harvesting. But in villages such as English Bay it has been the entire economy.
 
Wood Smoke to Satellite Dishes
Until this summer, when nine satellite dishes were bought purchased by villagers flush with Exxon cleanup money, the only thing rising above houses was the blue curl of smoke from wood stoves.
Three weeks after the grounding of the tanker Exxon Valdez, oil washed ashore here on sandy beaches more than 200 miles from the site of the accident. After oil was found in the eggs of salmon and on shellfish plucked from the bay, villagers decided not to harvest their traditional food.
''The whole bay looked sick,'' said Mr. Kvasnikoff, the village chief, who has a mixed Russian-Aleut heritage. ''It came in as sheen, and then tar balls.''
It was the first time in anyone's memory that the villagers had not spent the summer collecting food. ''It's something I learned as a kid, when every day at low tide my stepfather would say, 'Go out there and pick up everything that you can - that's our next meal,' '' said Roy Evans.
 
Harmony With the Harvests
The summer harvests brought food and social harmony to English Bay, villagers say.
''The men would be gone hunting or fishing, and the women would gather snails and seaweed, and we would all get very close,'' said Nancy Yeaton, who moved back to English Bay 12 years ago after living in New Hampshire for a long time. ''It was always a great chance to talk, to renew old ties and teach your children about the tide pools.''
By early summer this year, everybody in the village above the age of 18 was working for Exxon's cleanup contractor at wages of at least $16.69 an hour. Ten-foot skiffs were rented out at $300 a day.
''It was like a typhoon came in and emptied out the village,'' said Ms. Yeaton. ''Everything changed overnight. We gained a lot of money, but we lost a lot of family closeness and our own food.''
 
Money for Cleaning Tar Balls
Roberta Kvasnikoff, the 21-year-old daughter of the chief who was wearing an MTV T-shirt, said she left behind the chores of caring for her infant daughter to work for Exxon. With the money she earned cleaning tar balls from the beach, she plans to buy food for her baby - the kind of food that comes in packages and cans, instead of from the beach and river.
Some villagers worry that even if the bay returns to full health - and most believe it will - it will be hard to make everybody go back to the subsistence life style.
''It's going to be really scary to see what happens to people,'' said Ms. Yeaton. ''Life is not routine anymore.''
Before the oil spill, labor was a community chore. Now, says Roy Evans, when you ask somebody to help you cut wood, they want money for it.
 
Taxes Are Discovered
With the money comes another novelty: taxes. ''I've never had to worry about paying taxes in my life,'' said John Kvasnikoff, who at age 26 is the youngest of Juanita Kvasnikoff's 13 children. Like others in the village, he said he would rather have a beach untouched by oil than the trappings, such as his new satellite dish capable of picking up more than 100 television channels, that cleanup money can buy. ''I gave up a lot more than I got,'' he said.
Mr. Evans, the village police officer, has noticed a sharp rise in sexual abuse and binge drinking. On this day, the talk of the town is a group of men who have been drinking nonstop for several days. Nobody will go near their house.
The village, which has fought the debilitating effects of alcoholism for years, has had a strong sobriety movement in the last six years. But this year, the alcohol counselor is drinking again, according to Mr. Evans said, and dozens of other villagers have also fallen off the wagon.
''There's a lot of healing ahead,'' said Mr. Kvasnikoff, the chief. ''I don't know how long it'll take to get people back to where they were.'' Is Language Being Eroded? The village chief says the influx of television will continue to erode the native language. Until a few years ago, when nobody had a television, English was the second language, he said.
''All the little kids spoke Aleut,'' he said. Now, he worries that Aleut could go the way of the dinosaurs.
Other villagers are talking of leaving town. Jeff Evans earned $22,000 from the Exxon cleanup and is thinking of moving to Anchorage. On a day when he would normally be hanging fish in the smokehouse, he was playing the Sex Pistols, a punk rock 'n roll band, at high volume. Sober for nine months, he is drinking again.
The village, represented by the Chugach Alaska Corporation, one of 13 native corporations formed in the 1970's to manage land and money received from the Government, has sued Exxon for the subsistence loss.
Some salmon, the last of the summer runs, are being harvested and hung to dry. A seal was recently killed and shared by the natives. But as winter approaches, many smokehouses are empty.

GRAPHIC: photos of Jeff Evans (pg. A1); fishermen in English Bay; Nancy Yeaton; John Kvasnik and Dan Hennick installing a satellite dish (NYT/Jim Wilson); map of English Bay, Alaska (pg. A17)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;EXXON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALASKA; KODIAK ISLAND (ALASKA); PRINCE WILLIAM SOUND (ALASKA)

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; TANKERS; ALEUTS; ALCOHOLISM; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; EXXON VALDEZ (TANKER); FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SHELLFISH; SEALS (ANIMALS) AND SEALING OIL SPILLS (93%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); FISHES (90%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (88%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (74%); BEACHES (72%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); BIOLOGY (63%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY PRINCE WILLIAM (59%); PRINCE WILLIAM (59%); 



434 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Salvador Rebel Chief Offers Truce if U.S. Halts Aid to Rightist Government

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 17

 BODY:
The senior military commander of El Salvador's insurgency said in an interview today that his forces would be willing to ''cease hostilities'' if the United States halted military aid to the country's rightist Government.
''There is no doubt that if this aid ended, the fighting would have to end immediately,'' said the commander, Joaquin Villalobos, the chief military strategist of the rebels' Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front. ''To a gesture of this scope, our response would have to be immediate.''
Asked if that response meant discontinuing all fighting, he answered ''yes.'' 
More than 70,000 people have been killed and a million have been forced into flight or into exile as a result of the decade-long civil war in El Salvador. The United States has sent more than $1 billion in military aid to El Salvador in the last decade, and $2 billion more in economic assistance.
Mr. Villalobos's statement came five days after the guerrilla front announced a detailed peace proposal here aimed at bringing about a cease-fire in the war by Nov. 15 and a permanent end to hostilities by Jan. 31, 1990. The plan will be discussed in future negotiations with representatives of the Salvadoran President, Alfredo Cristiani. The two sides held talks here last week.
 
Treated as Separate Matters
But the rebel commander was careful to separate his suggestion of a trade-off with the United States - an idea that Washington is almost certain to reject - from longstanding Salvadoran Government demands that the guerrillas lay down their arms.
''To put an emphasis on the handing over of arms is an act of bad faith,'' he said. ''This war has causes, and the problem is not one of handing over arms but of ending the reasons that have led to taking up arms and maintaining the war.''
If these problems, including the sweeping reform of the military, the political system and judiciary mentioned in the new rebel proposal, were resolved, Mr. Villalobos said, there would be no reason for the guerrillas to take up arms. But until such an agreement is reached, he said, demobilizing the rebels is out of the question.
''To put the emphasis on this question is to ask the F.M.L.N. to commit suicide,'' he said of the National Liberation Front. ''It would be an act of political ingenuity.''
Mr. Villalobos also criticized American policy. He complained of what he called a lack of response from Washington to a rebel peace proposal announced in January, and of Washington's support for the Salvadoran Government despite the passage of power in June from the centrist Christian Democratic Party of Jose Napoleon Duarte to Mr. Cristiani and his rightist Nationalist Republican Alliance.
''We had hoped that the change from the Reagan to the Bush Administration would produce more pragmatic positions and attitudes,'' he said. But with a few minor exceptions, he said, ''we have not seen anything substantive.''
''Look, they have increased aid to the security organs at a time of a Government of the extreme right that includes several persons accused of having used those security organs to persistently violate human rights,'' he continued. ''This worries us.'' Operating under the nom de guerre Rene Cruz, Mr. Villalobos, who is about 38 years old, has spent most of the last decade living secretly abroad or in the hills of El Salvador, directing rebel forces against the Salvadoran military and their American military advisers.
But in the last year, he has engaged in diplomatic activity, and last week he led the rebel delegation in three days of talks with the Salvadoran Government.
In the past, Mr. Villalobos, thin and boyish in appearance, has agreed only rarely to interviews. He said one of the reasons for the more visible profile he has adopted is to bring an end to what he called a ''propagandistic confrontation'' with the United States.
''My own person has been the object of a campaign saying he is a hard-liner, a radical, a terrorist, he's oppposed to any peace dialogue,'' he said. ''But I have said on other occasions that we have a greater sense of identification with the United States than with any other nation.''
 
'Yankees Are Weakened'
In a lengthy article published under his name earlier this year in Foreign Policy, Mr. Villalobos came out in favor of political and economic pluralism in El Salvador and peaceful coexistence with the United States. But doubts about him persist in Washington and San Salvador because of another document, a rebel strategy paper called ''Plan Fire,'' captured by the Salvadoran military last year.
''The Yankees are weakened but not beaten, and will only leave the heart of the continent if they are politically and militarily defeated,'' says the document, which has been called authentic by the rebel front. It also refers to negotiations as a means of ''keeping the enemy tied to the table with a view to his strategic weakening,'' and it endorses the notion of mass insurrection as a political and military tactic.
''I think you have to differentiate two things: between the objectives hoped to be achieved and the strategy by which they are reached,'' Mr. Villalobos said when asked about the contradiction between the two documents. ''I don't know much about the history of the United States, but I imagine that at some point during its struggle for independence, the practice of sabotage must have been discussed.''
The ''conditions of war to which we have been submitted have obliged us in certain cases to do this, and in some cases to make mistakes,'' he said. ''We have made some errors, we are aware of that.'' Among those errors, Mr. Villalobos said, was the slaying nearly 15 years ago of Roque Dalton, a poet and rival rebel leader whose death split the insurgency for many years.
 
Loss of Allies
Mr. Villalobos, who has often been accused of killing Mr. Dalton or of ordering the killing, said the slaying was ''a collective decision'' in which he took part and that the decision was costly because ''it was hard for us to win back the support of the intellectuals.''
But he defended the rebel front's effort to sabotage the Salvadoran Presidential elections held earlier this year, even though political allies on the left who were taking part in the vote asked the front's leadership not to launch a campaign of intimidation.
''In El Salvador, elections are an act of war, not a political act, as in the United States or Costa Rica,'' he said.
''Today, the possibilities for peace in El Salvador are greater than ever, in spite of the fact that we have a right-wing Government,'' he said, adding that the front was willing to make concessions on its latest peace plan.
''From the moment we called this a proposal, we have had margins of flexibility,'' Mr. Villalobos said. ''Since it is a proposal, we are prepared to discuss every point,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: photo of Joaquin Villalobos (NYT/Sergio Dorantes)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EL SALVADOR (94%); MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SALVADOR, EL

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SALVADOR, EL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COURTS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); CIVIL WAR (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (87%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); DISARMAMENT (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); SUICIDE (50%); 

PERSON: VILLALOBOS, JOAQUIN; ROHTER, LARRY ALFREDO CRISTIANI (54%); 



435 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1810 words

HEADLINE: War Report From Colombia: Fight Will Be Long

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Sept. 17

 BODY:
One month after the murder of a presidential candidate here unleashed Colombia's attack on cocaine cartels, President Virgilio Barco Vargas appears to be preparing for a long war against the major drug traffickers.
Breaking the pattern of previous, short-lived crackdowns, Colombia's Government has arrayed its weapons for a prolonged fight: seizing ranches and planes, freezing bank accounts, extraditing drug suspects to the United States and placing the headquarters of drug rings under military control.
''Barco has told me, one on one, that he is going to keep this up until he pushes them out of the country,'' a high Government official said of Colombia's President, who is starting his final year in office.
Clara Lopez Obregon, a congressional candidate from the left wing of the ruling Liberal Party, said, ''My sense is that the anti-drug effort is honest and is not going to blow away.''
But many narcotics experts fear that without major successes, public support will begin to drift. Already political figures are sniping at the drug war. 
''The measures adopted in the United States do not satisfy us: educational videos in the United States, bombers for Colombia, persuasive chats in the consuming centers and helicopters for Colombia,'' Senator Ernesto Samper Pizano, a presidential candidate for the Liberal Party, said at a press conference on Thursday. On Drug Dealers' Side Is Their Vast Wealth The outcome is far from certain in a contest that pits a democratically elected Government of a developing nation against drug merchants who are often described as the richest criminals in the world.
The traffickers, the source of 80 percent of the world's cocaine, have on their side vast wealth, private armies and a predilection for terror and bribery that has intimidated or corrupted courts, congress and much of the press.
Against this, President Barco has overwhelming public support and two new allies - the army and the United States. Narcotics experts say they are surprised by the tenacity of this crackdown, the fifth against the cartels here in five years.
''The drug traffickers have been really hurt this time,'' said Guy Gugliotta, who co-authored with Jeff Leen a new history of the Medellin cartel, ''Kings of Cocaine.''
''The cartels have been hurt in the pocket book,'' Mr. Gugliotta continued in a telephone interview. ''The Government has taken away their toys, their land, their ability to be rich and have fun.'' Supplies of Narcotics Are 'Seriously Disrupted'
Indeed, in the four weeks since the murder on Aug. 18 of the popular politician, Luis Carlos Galan, the police and army have seized an impressive inventory: 367 aircraft, 72 boats, 710 vehicles and motorcyles, 4.7 tons of cocaine, 1,279 guns, 25,000 rounds of ammunition, 989 buildings and ranches, and 32,773 farm animals.
In addition, 535 people have been arrested and charged and more than 10,000 others have been detained and later released. For the first time in two years, a drug suspect has been extradited to the United States and two more are awaiting extradition.
''It's put the traffickers off balance,'' an American diplomat said here. ''The supplies of marijuana and cocaine have been seriously disrupted.''
For the first time in five years, the wholesale price for cocaine in Miami is rising. Since the crackdown started, the price has risen to $18,000 a kilogram, from $11,000.
While Colombia grows about 15 percent of the world's coca leaf production, its major role is processing cocaine base made from higher grade leaves grown in Bolivia and Peru.
Police efforts have largely focused on hindering production by seizing chemicals used for refining coca base into cocaine powder. By mid-August, the Colombian police had seized twice as much ether, three times as much acetone and eight times as much ammonia as in all of last year.
The director general of Colombia's police, Miguel Antonio Gomez Padilla, said in an interview published Saturday in El Espectador, ''In the last laboratory destroyed we found a chemical recycling unit, which means two things: one, that they are having problems bringing the chemicals into the country, and, two, that they realized it is cheaper to recycle.''
Government officials have not explained why the security forces have not heavily hit laboratories and plantations in the first month of the current crackdown, although they have burned some coca plantations in the Amazon area and raided some laboratories.
The police have concentrated on seizing real estate, radio and aircraft suspected of being used for smuggling.
Corruption in the police and army may explain why the so-called 12 most wanted traffickers have slipped away and why major laboratories have not been destroyed, American narcotics experts here suggest.
Mr. Gomez, the police director, said in the El Espectador interview:
''Why haven't we captured the principal ringleaders? There are two groundless charges that are not true: the first is that they are not captured because we don't want to capture them. And the other is because the security forces are very infiltrated. In reality, these people are not being caught because they are not walking around openly in the streets. They are fugitivies and move around a lot.
Under attack, the Medellin cartel has fought back with its trademark violence. In the last four weeks, the toll from the cartel's terror action has been 13 dead, 140 injured and millions of dollars in damage. In all, more than 50 bombs have been exploded.
Tonight a homemade rocket was fired at the United States Embassy, The Associated Press reported. The news agency quoted an embassy spokesman as saying that the device struck a corner of the building but caused minimal damage and no injuries.
Three bombs exploded today in Cali, killing a security guard, and three bombings were reported tonight in northern Bogota. On Saturday, Guillermo Gomez Murillo, a reporter for El Espectador, was shot to death by three men who entered his house in Buenaventura.
The targets of the attacks have been carefully chosen.
Colombia's 200,000-man army, which has joined the fray for the first time, has been virtually untouched. The bombers have largely hit banks, restaurants, ranches and shops owned by wealthy and politically influential Colombians.
''The narcos are going after the ruling class - and they are already starting to squeal,'' a European diplomat said, citing calls for discussions from some leaders in Medellin.
Mr. Galan's murder came three weeks before President Bush unveiled his Adminstration's drug policy. Anger over the assassination is partly credited with prompting the American aid that is suddenly pouring into this Andean country.
As recently as 15 years ago, American anti-narcotics aid amounted to $45,000 - some jeeps and some handcuffs. Days after the August 18 assassination, President Bush ordered $65 million in emergency aid to Colombia.
The Bush Administration's anti-drug plan contains an ''Andean strategy'' that calls for increased economic and military aid for Colombia, Peru and Bolivia in addition to the $65 million.
Pete Williams, a Pentagon spokesman, said last week that for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 the Bush plan specifically calls for $90 million in military and economic aid for Colombia, $97.5 million for Bolivia and $73.4 million for Peru. In those three countries, officials said, there now were 50 to 100 American military officers, but that number is expected to grow.
Responding to Colombian and American officials who have complained that the United States has sent military equipment that was not appropriate for fighting drug traffickers, Mr. Williams said: ''We have to best match their needs with what we are limited by law to offer from existing stocks. We believe that the aid that we have offered is appropriate to the circumstances.'' Public's Attitude Shifts To Favor Extradition Some narcotics experts believe that the traffickers have lost some credibility by not following through on threats to wage war on the Government or to kill 10 judges for every Colombian extradited to the United States.
''One good symptom was that the reaction to the first extradition was not as strong as we expected,'' a presidential aide said cautiously.
The traffickers have won few friends with their policy of terrorism. A recent opinion poll indicated that attitudes towards extradition have reversed since March. Six months ago, 63 percent of Colombians polled opposed sending their countrymen to face trial in American courts. In late August, 77 percent of those polled by the newspaper El Tiempo backed extradition.
The traffickers have singled out congress and the courts for bribes or intimidation. Last week, the House of Representatives gave a cold shoulder to President Barco's Cabinet when they arrived at the chamber to brief legislators on the drug war.
In coming weeks, the Supreme Court will be the scene of next battle. By October, the court must rule on the constitutionality of Mr. Barco's decrees. If they are found to be unconstitutional, all property seized from drug dealers since Aug. 18 must be returned.
''If the court strikes down the decrees as unconstitutional, it will be a victory for the mafia and a terrible embarassment for Colombia,'' said Luis Ricardo Paredes, a Harvard-trained Colombian lawyer. ''On the other hand, if they don't strike them down, they are dead people.'' In recent years, the traffickers have killed about a dozen Supreme Court judges. Top 12 Traffickers Remain at Large Four weeks after the crackdown began, the top 12 traffickers wanted for trial in the United States are still at large. ''I think they had hideouts prepared for a long time and are in Colombia,'' Mr. Gugliotta said.
During past crackdowns, the traffickers have turned to Colombia's guerrilla groups to rent extra firepower. In 1985, the traffickers are believed to have hired the M-19 group. Eleven Supreme Court justices died during M-19's seizure of the court that year. But the M-19, which is about to conclude a peace agreement with the Government, is no longer for hire.
Colombia's largest group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, is feuding with the traffickers. In the last four years, paramilitary squads organized by the traffickers are believed to have murdered 750 members of this guerrilla group's political wing.
Of five left-wing guerrilla armies in Colombia, only one, the National Liberation Army, is not conducting peace talks with the Government. ''The word is out that the narcs have said to the E.L.N.: 'Name your price,' '' the European diplomat said, using the Spanish initials of the National Liberation Army.
Last Thursday, the army reported the arrest in Medellin of 28 members of the National Liberation Army ''who worked in the service of drug traffickers.''

GRAPHIC: map of Medellin, Colombia; photo of soldiers guarding confiscated island farm in Colombia (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: BELGIAN AMERICAN RADIO CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; EXTRADITION; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; ASSETS, FROZEN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); COCAINE (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); ARMIES (90%); CARTELS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); FIREARMS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); CORRUPTION (68%); BRIBERY (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); HELICOPTERS (65%); 

PERSON: BARCO VARGAS, VIRGILIO (PRES); BROOKE, JAMES VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS (74%); ERNESTO SAMPER PIZANO (54%); 



436 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Low Levels of Asbestos Fibers Pose Few Risks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You report on the fears in New York City's Gramercy Park neighborhood in the wake of a Consolidated Edison steam-pipe explosion that released mud containing ''high levels of potentially cancer-causing asbestos'' (news article, Aug. 28). Indeed the fear is there, as evidenced by the responses of Con Edison and the residents of the apartment buildings on Gramercy Park. Unfortunately, scientific-medical journals filled with up-to-date articles clearly showing the lack of adverse health effects of low-level exposure to asbestos fibers, especially chrysotile, are being ignored. With our constantly increasing knowledge of asbestos, it is shameful that these people must suffer unnecessary anxiety.
The fear that a few asbestos fibers are deadly or cancer producing is unwarranted, and wholly unsupported by current evidence. The information is readily available for anyone in recent issues of The New England Journal of Medicine, The American Journal of Industrial Medicine, The British Journal of Industrial Medicine, Chest, Journal of Occupational Medicine and others.
All can be obtained at any of New York's medical centers (New York University, Columbia, Albert Einstein, Mount Sinai), as well as the New York Academy of Medicine (one of the finest libraries in the country); and the articles are about as difficult to read as The New York Times.
Of course, part of the blame for the fear must be assumed by the news media, which continue to purvey the nonsense that low levels of airborne fibers are deadly. This erroneous message is needlessly exacting a frightful toll, both mental and economic.
 
MELVIN A. BENARDE
 Philadelphia, Aug. 29, 1989
The writer is professor and associate director of Temple University's Asbestos Abatement Center, Region III.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (56%); 

SUBJECT: ASBESTOS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES ASBESTOS (93%); CARCINOGENS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (72%); CANCER (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); 

PERSON: BENARDE, MELVIN A (PROF)



437 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Matters;
Victory Recipe: Labor, Resolve And a Rainbow

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Are New Yorkers better off now than when Edward I. Koch was first elected Mayor?
''Even if it's better, their expectation level has gone up,'' Gov. Mario M. Cuomo replied last spring. ''I don't think you're going to find many people who say, 'I'm not better off, but the city as a whole is.' My mother would say she doesn't remember this kind of violence. But she likes Koch.'' After months of measuring the alternatives, voters delivered the Democratic mayoral nomination to David N. Dinkins last week. How did Mr. Dinkins win? It was his turn. His very candidacy cleared the potential field of several fellow progressives. Organized labor provided troops and helped stretch campaign spending ceilings. He confounded skeptics by passing every political test to emerge as the antiKoch. His coalition included Hispanic voters who, Herbert J. Gans, a Columbia University sociology professor, said, ''finally decided economic or class interest was more important than their political competition with blacks.'' Did Mr. Dinkins make mistakes? No fatal ones. He handed Mr. Koch nearly two months of unrebutted television time to re-define himself. He never directly addressed fears of some whites about voting for a black. Nor did he make the bold gestures about crime that might have more dramatically cast him in the mainstream to which he now stakes a claim. That he briefly mulled revising the law barring strikes by public employees fueled fears that he was a captive of labor. 
His shortcomings were only gingerly exploited by Mr. Koch, who could not afford to remind voters of his reputation for racial insensitivity. But it's arguable whether Rudolph W. Giuliani, the Republican candidate, or his surrogates, can defeat Mr. Dinkins without first deflating him.
How was he able to woo a record proportion of whites?
For some, the first priority was to unseat Mr. Koch. Moreover, Manhattanites were already accustomed to seeing Mr. Dinkins's name on the ballot. When he was finally elected borough president in 1985, he was the first black who had not first served in the post by interim appointment. Were those the only reasons he won? No. Winning campaigns need a credible rationale. In 1965, John V. Lindsay promised the dynamic leadership his predecessor lacked; Abraham D. Beame, stability after the go-go Lindsay years; Mr. Koch, the verve to revive the city. Implicit in Mr. Koch's message was ''give me a chance to do in a fourth term what I couldn't accomplish in three'' and ''my rivals are worse than me.'' Mr. Dinkins represented an appealing salve. He campaigned in character as a man of quiet resolve. ''You won it the way you lived,'' Mr. Cuomo told him. So it's going to be Mayor Dinkins, right? Not so fast. Bringing the city together will be more a consequence of Mr. Dinkins's ability to govern, which, as it was for Mr. Koch in 1977, is largely untested, as of his ability to make many New Yorkers feel good about themselves and their city. He recognizes the need to court a broader constituency - including Mr. Koch - than the seemingly narrow rainbow of Democrats in whose glow he basked on primary night. What is Mr. Giuliani's rationale? His reputation as a crime fighter, vigorous innovator and even newer broom than Mr. Dinkins. That he is an enrolled Republican is tempered by his Liberal Party nomination and by relentless criticism from Ronald S. Lauder, the Conservative candidate, that Mr. Giuliani is a nominal Republican, but a real liberal. And Mr. Giuliani's baggage? His evolving public posture on abortion, his ties to the Reagan Administration and a reputation for political opportunism and zealotry that he has not effectively dispelled. ''You don't have to be mean to be strong,'' Mr. Dinkins might say. While Mr. Giuliani is a political neophyte - and no one has become mayor of New York in 95 years without having held prior elective office - the major difference between his mentors and Mr. Dinkins's political sponsors is that the Democrats hold power and the Republicans and Liberals want to. Since 1965, though, no Republican mayoral candidate has received more than half the 34 percent Mr. Lindsay polled that year on the Republican line.
So, for whom did Mr. Cuomo's 87-year-old mother, who favors the death penalty, vote?
She refuses to say that she stuck with Mr. Koch and it's believed that she voted for Mr. Dinkins. She has reserved decision about November, but is said to be skeptical of Mr. Giuliani.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; PRIMARIES VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); ROBERTS, SAM RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 



438 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: Voters Facing Stark Choice In New Jersey

BYLINE: By PETER KERR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Seven weeks before New Jersey elects a new governor, voters are being confronted with a stark choice on whom they wish to succeed Gov. Thomas H. Kean in a state that was once solidly Democratic but whose heart was won over by Republicans during the Reagan revolution in the 1980's.
With only one other statewide race in the nation this year, Republicans here and in Washington are wagering that New Jerseyans will choose Representative Jim Courter, an advocate of small government, the free market and unabashedly conservative views on social issues.
Supporters of the Democratic candidate, Representative James J. Florio, argue that after eight years of Republican rule in Trenton, voters want to reinvigorate government for an assault on environmental hazards, overdevelopment, urban ills and an automobile insurance system that has left drivers here with the highest premiums in the nation.
 
Widely Different Philosophies
But such serious philosophical differences have so far been obscured by a rat-a-tat assault of negative images fired by the two sides and by growing questions on the competence of Mr. Courter's campaign, which stumbled through the summer and seemed last week to be sputtering out of control. 
''I cannot think of a campaign where the political philosophies of the candidates have been as different,'' said Richard W. Roper, director of the Program for New Jersey Affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University. ''Jim Florio believes that government has a role to play in improving the life of people in need. Jim Courter believes that market forces will cure the problems that beset us.''
The outcome of the New Jersey race is of particular interest to both national parties because it was in New Jersey, a state dominated by voters who had been loyal to the Democratic Party since the New Deal, that the Republicans scored five stunning victories in the 1980's, starting with Ronald Reagan's defeat of Jimmy Carter in 1980 and Mr. Kean's narrow victory over Mr. Florio in 1981.
While voters favored the Democratic Party by 31 percent to 22 percent in 1980 and 1981, voter preferences are nearly equal today, according to studies by the Eagleton Institute of Politics at Rutgers University. Mr. Reagan won re-election by a 60 percent majority in the state in 1984, and Mr. Kean won re-election in 1985 by a 70 percent majority, including estimates that a majority of black voters had supported him. President Bush won in New Jersey last year with 57 percent of the vote.
 
Kean May Be a Model
Yet this election may disclose exactly what it was that voters embraced in the Reagan and Kean administrations. Although voters were plainly dissatisfied with economic stagnation and high taxes during the Democratic administrations of President Carter and Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, polls showed that they were not necessarily opposed to the social changes of the 1960's and 1970's.
Moreover, recent studies by the Eagleton Institute show growing dissatisfaction with some of the fruits of unregulated economic boom in the nation's most densely populated state. Many citizens have grown enraged at traffic snarls on their highways and have come to regard environmental protection no longer as an issue put forward by liberals, but as a goal as universally accepted as patriotism.
Since he defeated Mr. Florio by fewer than 1,800 votes in 1981, Governor Kean has practiced an eclectic type of politics that many politicians say has resonated almost perfectly with the sentiments of the era. Although he has championed free-market economics, he also has spoken out forcefully on environmental issues and on behalf of minorities and has hewed a quiet, modest line on social issues like abortion and homosexual rights. Both candidates this year portray themselves as Mr. Kean's logical successor.
 
Courter Looks to Business
Mr. Courter, a six-term Congressman from Warren County, argues that a key to success in governing New Jersey is a continuation of the state's remarkable economic growth over the last six years.
As governor, he said, he would fight to avoid tax increases, limit government growth and maintain New Jersey as an attractive state for businesses. Mr. Courter says the answers to some of the state's most vexing problems can be found in further growth and competition in the marketplace.
To control automobile insurance premiums, which now average $1,000 a car each year, Mr. Courter has proposed deregulating the industry to permit competition, which he says would force down rates. As for rising property taxes, another vexing issue for voters, Mr. Courter proposes a cap on state spending and turning over rising revenues from growth in the economy to municipalities for property tax relief.
Although some of his positions, including his insurance plan, are at odds with Mr. Kean's policies, Mr. Kean has enthusiastically endorsed Mr. Courter.
''He lit the way,'' Mr. Courter said of the incumbent governor. ''He showed us the path. All we have to do is follow that path.''
 
Florio Relies on Government
Mr. Florio, who has served in Congress since 1975 and is the author of the 1980 Superfund legislation to clean up the environment, says he would use state government more aggressively than the Republicans.
He has promised to create a new prosecutor to enforce environmental laws, involve business in the ills of the inner cities and impose stricter regulation of the insurance industry.
''I feel the Department of Insurance should be a state watchdog for the people, not a lap dog,'' Mr. Florio said. ''My opponent wants to take the watchdog out and put a bullet in its head.''
Since their primary victories last June, the two candidates have stumped the state, painting portraits of their opponents as unlikable, unethical and out of step with the centrist inclinations of most people in the state.
Mr. Courter, following a strategy initially mapped by the Washington political consultant Roger Stone, has attempted to portray Mr. Florio as ''corrupt,'' by pointing to improprieties of his allies in Camden County, and as a ''liberal,'' for not supporting a new, stronger death-penalty law.
Mr. Florio has responded by pointing to his opponent's membership in a fraternity that excluded blacks in college, his ownership of a land development project for which he is being sued and his ownership of stocks in defense industry companies while he was a member of the House Armed Services Committee. Mr. Florio hopes that voters will see Mr. Courter as a man of ''situational ethics,'' who believes in little besides his own self-interest.
 
Dissension in G.O.P. Camp
Last week Republican leaders, including Governor Kean, grew highly anxious at divisions within the Courter campaign, which have pitted Washington-based conservative Republicans close to Mr. Courter against more moderate Republicans based in Trenton and supported by Mr. Kean. Kean aides have shuddered at what they consider Mr. Courter's fumbling of major issues.
Mr. Courter, a supporter of the anti-abortion movement, took several days to respond to the Supreme Court decision on abortion this summer. When he announced that as governor he would not ''simply pose my personal views on the women of New Jersey,'' both supporters and opponents of abortion attacked this as vacillation.
When Mr. Florio attacked Mr. Courter earlier this month for a land deal he was involved with, the Courter campaign responded with three different, somewhat contradictory explanations. And on three occasions in three weeks, Mr. Courter appeared to change his original position that he would ban homosexuals for jobs as teachers, camp counselors and foster parents.
On Wednesday night Mr. Kean met with Mr. Courter and reportedly convinced him to dismiss his campaign manager and press secretary and replace them with Kean stalwarts. But the next morning the Kean choice for campaign manager, Roger A. Bodman, a former labor commissioner, said he would not take the position and left the state. Ensuing rumors left campaign workers demoralized.
''We have had problems,'' said Ken Connolly, the Courter campaign manager whose dismissal Mr. Kean had urged. ''But we are going to show over the next seven weeks and two days that we are not demoralized and that we are not disorganized.''
 
Courter Spokesman Resigns
NEWARK, Sept. 17 (AP) - Gordon Hensley, the chief campaign spokesman for Mr. Courter, resigned today.
Mr. Hensley said in resigning, ''Because of recent events involving differences between myself and Kean administration officials, I have concluded that I can no longer serve in my capacity as chief spokesman for the Courter for Governor campaign.''

GRAPHIC: photos of Rep. James Florio (NYT/Sal DiMarco Jr.); Rep. Jim Courter (NYT/Keith Meyers) (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ENVIRONMENT; URBAN AREAS; AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (REPR); COURTER, JAMES A (REPR); KERR, PETER JAMES A COURTER (92%); JIMMY CARTER (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



439 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
Companies
United's employees and unions will have the final say over major decisions and strategy at UAL, the airline's parent, under the terms of their buyout, the head of the pilots' union says. Workers have not gained such power over corporate policy in other buyouts involving employee stock ownership plans. Changes in the course of UAL would have to be approved both by a majority of eight independent directors and by at least two of the three directors appointed by participating unions. [Page A1.]
Suppliers are continuing to delay, reduce or cancel shipments of merchandise to Federated/Allied stores, despite tentative approval of a $250 million loan to Campeau, the retailers' parent company, from Olympia & York. Sources said the final terms of the loan agreement call for Robert Campeau to concentrate on real estate while the Reichmann family, which owns Olympia & York, takes control of the retailing operations. [D1.] Shoppers packed the new Abraham & Straus store in Manhattan, but questions remained about its ability to maintain an inventory. [D1.] 
Large obstacles threaten to block RJR Nabisco's efforts to sell portions of Del Monte. Some people said Citicorp Venture Capital had backed out of a deal, while others said it was trying to solve the problems that have emerged. [D1.]
A chill has settled on relations between G.M. and the U.A.W. since the appointment of a new head for the union's G.M. unit. The U.A.W. official, Stephen Yokich, has taken a wary approach to the auto maker's cooperative labor and management efforts. [D4.]
Brooklyn's Community Capital Bank aims to make a profit from loans to small businesses and for low-income housing that other banks avoid. [D2.]
ADAC Laboratories will be honored as a ''Turnaround of the Year,'' but investors in another company under the stewardship of Q. T. Wiles, who ran ADAC until 1987, are fuming. [D4.]
 
International Report
Developing countries were so encumbered by debt obligations that they paid $50 billion more to creditors last year than they received in new aid, the World Bank reported. [D1.]
A crisis of confidence has swept Peru's business community, which is besieged by terrorist threats and an inflation rate that is expected to surpass 5,000 percent in December. [D10.]
 
The Media Business
BBC hopes to play a larger role in U.S. television, benefiting from the growth of cable TV and a new awareness that it can raise the revenue it needs by selling programs abroad. [D8.]
ESPN has helped transform the American sports landscape. After broadening into mainstream events, it will jump into big-league baseball next season. [D8.]
Media giants sprinkled fortune through the communications industry in the 1980's, making many people wealthy. Those profits have helped fuel a boom in magazines, with 500 new consumer titles expected this year alone. [D8.]
Book publishers are already well into the important fall season. Many of the publishing houses are glad to put the disappointing summer behind them. Publishing. [D8.]
An anti-fashion statement for Everlast is the work of Goldsmith/Jeffrey, one of the young agencies that have won awards by challenging tradition. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D9.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Worries about inflation could re-emerge this fall, credit market analysts say, after receding for much of the summer. Higher oil prices and a rise in August's ''core'' inflation rate may add to concerns and push long-term rates higher. Credit Markets. [D1.]
Tax professionals are applauding a House committee vote on tax-law changes that include a reduction in the capital gains tax. But not all provisions will benefit every business. Tax Watch. [D2.]
Wall Street has found a new way to merge companies without penalizing earnings, through ''a nonmonetary exchange of assets for stock in a new company.'' Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (55%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); PERU (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (55%); KRAFT NABISCO (55%); COMMUNITY CAPITAL BANK (53%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (82%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (79%); PARENT COMPANIES (79%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (79%); AIRLINES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); RETAILERS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (74%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); PUBLIC HOUSING (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); CABLE TELEVISION (63%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION (62%); BASEBALL (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TERRORISM (50%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT JOSEPH CAMPEAU (56%); 



440 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
New Worries May Emerge On Inflation

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
After receding for much of the summer, worries about inflation could well re-emerge this fall, credit market analysts said.
Aided by falling energy and food prices, producer prices, which galloped along at a 9 percent annual rate in the first few months of the year, have eased considerably since then. With the report of a drop of four-tenths of a percentage point in August, producer prices have advanced at a 4.4 percent clip so far this year.
The overall report seemed good, but economists expressed concern over a bigger-than-expected rise of half a percentage point in the price index once food and energy are excluded. The fact that oil prices have moved higher since the start of September, and are once again hovering around $20 a barrel, made last month's upward move in the ''core'' inflation rate a bit more disturbing. 
 
Not an Immediate Concern
''Right now the bond market is not concerned about inflation,'' said Mitchell Held, chief financial economist at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company. ''But with oil at around $20 and core inflation rising, that may not be the case two months from now. Those worries could, over that time span, push long-term interest rates higher.''
Maria Fiorini Ramirez, a managing director at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., said, ''Unless there is some surprising event that has a positive impact on food and energy prices in the coming months, it seems that the best of the inflation news for the year is behind us, and not ahead.''
That view may not be literally correct, because most analysts are expecting that tomorrow's report on consumer price inflation in August will show another relatively benign increase. 0.2% Price Report Expected Bruce Vertes, an economist at Salomon Brothers Inc., is forecasting that consumer prices rose by two-tenths of a percent last month, keeping to a pace that began in June. Even with the summerlong moderation, consumer prices through July have risen at a 5.5 percent annual rate.
Although Mr. Vertes said the firm did not expect longer-term acceleration in prices, he writes in the firm's weekly ''Comments on Credit'' that beginning in September there will be seasonal increases ''in apparel prices and higher prices accompanying the introduction of 1990 car and truck lines.''
From a practical short-term perspective, the August increase in producer prices is likely to restrain the Federal Reserve from easing short-term credit conditions further, analysts said.
''There seems to be no basis for a decline of note in interest rates over the next few weeks,'' said Robert M. Giordano, a partner and co-director of economic research at Goldman, Sachs & Company.
 
Effect of 'Junk' Bonds
Aside from monitoring new reports on the economy and inflation, this week's activity in the market for Government securities is apt to be responsive to developments in the high-yield ''junk'' bond market.
Problems with a number of high-yield issues, especially Allied Stores and Federated Department Stores, two big subsidiaries of the troubled Campeau Corporation, prompted near-panic selling in the high-yield market and a subsequent decline in short-term Treasury yields, as investors sought haven in high-quality securities.
Campeau's problems may continue to reverberate through the high-yield market, particularly if recent developments persuade investors in high-yield mutual funds to sell shares.
But market participants said that the recent sell-off has been so large that professionals are likely to start buying selected issues again soon, perhaps this week.
 
'Interest in Distressed Credits'
''We are seeing more interest in distressed credits than at any time in the past,'' said Robert Long, head of the high-yield research department at the First Boston Corporation. ''We think that investors will start bottom-fishing and buying the market in general.''
Indeed, yields on most junk issues have risen to dizzying, almost record levels. By the end of last week the spread, or difference, between 10-year Treasury notes, which were offered at a price to yield 8.07 percent, and First Boston's index of 280 high-yield issues was just over 6 percentage points.
''The only time the spread has been wider was in 1986, when it got to 6.17 percentage points after Ivan Boesky was indicted,'' Mr. Long said. ''I think we will get a rally.''
In the more tranquil world of high-grade investment issues, activity this week will be highlighted by a $1.5 billion ''global bond'' offering of intermediate-term securities from the World Bank.
 
A World Issue
Befitting its name, the AAA-rated institution will for the first time be issuing the securities simultaneously in the United States and Eurobond markets. The issue is intended to be traded around the clock. As such, it will offer investors better liquidity than outstanding World Bank issues that are traded in the United States or Euromarkets alone.
The move to a globally offered issue underscores the degree of integration that has been realized in world financial markets. But the bank's offering, the first of many, is not likely to be repeated by a slew of other borrowers.
''There are only a handful of large international companies or governments that could do this,'' said William Michaelcheck, a senior managing director at Bear, Stearns & Company and a former World Bank executive. ''Companies like I.B.M. and Citibank could do it, as could a Government agency like Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae. It creates a security which has a worldwide trading market. By definition, that makes it a more valuable security.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (69%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (64%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; INFLATION; INTEREST (MONEY) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (67%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ROBERT E LONG (62%); 



441 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Effect of I.R.A.'s on Savings

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
A Congressional study indicates that the nation's savings rate fell sharply after Congress slashed tax deductions for most individual retirement accounts in 1986.
The study, prepared by an economist for the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, was released Saturday by Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee. Mr. Bentsen, who has called for restoring partial tax deductions on contributions to I.R.A.'s instead of cutting the capital gains tax, said the study shows their effectiveness in promoting savings. 
''Now if we're going to be less dependent on foreign investment and foreign loaning of money to us, then we have to increase the savings rate in this country,'' Mr. Bentsen said.
Mr. Bentsen said the study found that after I.R.A.'s were severely curtailed by cutting back on the tax deductions, ''savings rates dropped substantially in this country - and they were already low - and that in addition the I.R.A.'s themselves were cut almost in half.''
The study said the personal savings rate averaged 5.3 percent of disposable income from 1982-86 and has averaged 3.7 percent since then. The rate fell to 3.2 percent in 1987 and 1988, the lowest in 40 years, the study said. Savers contributed $38 billion to I.R.A.'s in 1986, but the amount fell to almost half that the following year, the study said.
Mr. Bentsen has proposed a deduction of at least 50 percent for all I.R.A. accounts. His plan would allow the withdrawal of I.R.A. funds without penalty at the time of retirement, for a down payment on the purchase of a first home or to finance college costs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SAVINGS; INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (IRA); CAPITAL GAINS TAX; TAX DEDUCTIONS PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (91%); SAVINGS RATES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); FOREIGN LENDING (69%); 

PERSON: BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEN) LLOYD MILLARD BENTSEN JR (93%); 



442 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: One-Year Treasuries to Be Sold This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of new issues for this week is confined to today's auction of new three-month and six-month Treasury bills and Thursday's auction of a new one-year issue.
Late Friday the three-month bill was bid at 7.53 percent and the six-month bill was at 7.55 percent. The one-year bill was bid at 7.46 percent. 
The Financing Corporation, a mixed-ownership Government corporation chartered by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, plans to announce the terms of a debt issue today that will be offered tomorrow through competitive bidding.
The following new fixed-income issues are scheduled this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Chambers Development Co., $75 million in convertible subordinated debentures due 2004, rated BB- by S.&P. Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
Long Island Lighting Co., seven million shares of $25 preferred, NR/Baa-3/BB-. Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
World Bank, $1.5 billion bond offering for U.S. and overseas through Deutsche Bank Capital Markets and Salomon Brothers Inc.
Source: McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei Inc.
Ratings: MCM/Moody's/Standard & Poor's.
 
TAX-EXEMPT
 
MONDAY
Albuquerque, N.M., $49.7 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TENTATIVE OFFERINGS THIS WEEK
Cambria County Industrial Development Authority, $120 million in debt securities. Morgan Stanley & Co.
Illinois, $115 million in certificates of participation. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Monroe County, New York, $107.9 million in Rochester Airport bonds. Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
New York State Dormitory Authority, $600 million of New York State revenue bonds for state university education buildings. Lazard Freres & Co.
New York State Dormitory Authority, $250 million in New York State special obligation bonds for state university education buildings. Lazard Freres & Co.
South Dakota Health and Education Facilities Authority, $51.1 million in debt securities for Rapid City Regional Hospital. Dougherty, Dawkins, Strand & Yost Inc.
Texas Municipal Power Agency, $194.7 million in refunding revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); GS (NYSE) (84%); NGG (NYSE) (83%); NG (LSE) (83%); WM (NYSE) (70%); DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (83%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (83%); NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (70%); NAICS562213 SOLID WASTE COMBUSTORS & INCINERATORS (70%); NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (70%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (70%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (70%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); RAPID CITY, SD, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (83%); WASTE MANAGEMENT INC (70%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (69%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (68%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (66%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (66%); SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (66%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (54%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS TREASURY SECURITIES (93%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (70%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%); TAX LAW (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); 



443 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: JAPANESE MAKING BIGGEST DEAL YET WITH A U.S. BANK

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The world's biggest bank, the Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank of Tokyo, announced plans yesterday to buy control of a unit of the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation and a portion of the bank's stock.
The investment, totaling $1.4 billion, is the largest yet by a Japanese bank in an American financial company.
The financing will help Manufacturers Hanover to strengthen its financial condition significantly. The New York bank, which is the nation's seventh-largest and has been troubled by its heavy investment in loans to developing countries, also announced that it would add $950 million to its reserves for losses on loans to those countries.
For its money, Dai-Ichi will get 60 percent control of the CIT Group, a finance company with 50 offices around the country. A small portion, about $120 million, of the Japanese bank's investment will go to buy new Manufacturers Hanover stock that will equal about 4.9 percent of all shares outstanding. Dai-Ichi has promised not to increase that holding for 10 years. 
 
Extensive Arrangement
Manufacturers Hanover is the first American banking company to make such an extensive arrangement with a Japanese company. Although several other Japanese insurance and securities concerns have invested in American companies, their purchases have been smaller than that of Dai-Ichi and have not given the Japanese control of such a large company as CIT, which currently has about $10 billion of loans and other assets.
The lending of funds and the financing of equipment leases for medium-sized American companies, which is CIT's business, are among the most profitable parts of the American financial market, and one that Japanese companies have been eager to enter because they can charge higher interest rates.
''Looking at what happened first with automobiles and VCR's, and later with Treasury bonds and real estate, more Japanese investment in American banking is not surprising,'' said James K. McDermott, a banking analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, a New York securities firm specializing in bank stocks. ''But I expect that the investments will have more of an evolutionary than a revolutionary flavor, and we are not going to see a wave of Japanese takeovers of American banks.''
The Japanese bank will spend $1.28 billion to buy the 60 percent of CIT, which Manufacturers Hanover acquired from the RCA Corporation in 1985 for $1.5 billion. Because Manufacturers Hanover continues to hold 40 percent of CIT, the two banking companies expect to cooperate in referring customers to CIT.
The sale of control of CIT was part of a four-pronged move by Manufacturers Hanover to strengthen its financial condition. For several years, the bank has been criticized for having too little capital relative to its size and for losses it might face from its $6.8 billion in loans to developing countries.
In addition to the CIT sale, the placement of $120 million of the new stock with Dai-Ichi, and the addition of the $950 million to its loan-loss reserve, Manufacturers Hanover announced yesterday plans to sell another $500 million of common stock by the year's end in a public offering.
 
Quarter Loss of $775 Million
By adding to the loan-loss reserve, John F. McGillicuddy, the chairman of Manufacturers Hanover, said the bank will take a loss in the third quarter of about $775 million, and $475 million for the entire year.
Japanese banks have been active for several years in lending to the world's largest corporations, where profit margins are very thin. But they have had trouble generating business among the smaller companies that pay the higher interest rates.
Albert R. Gamper Jr., CIT's chief executive, said profits could improve following the change of control because the company might expand rapidly in the leasing business. He added that leasing activity was not great under Manufacturers Hanover because the American bank did not need the tax benefits it produced.
Yuko Oana, senior managing director of Dai-Ichi, said there would be no change in the current management of CIT.
 
Daiwa to Buy Lloyds Offices
In another sign of the eagerness of Japanese banks to become lenders to medium-sized businesses, Daiwa Bank Ltd. yesterday agreed to buy the American middle-market lending business of Lloyds Bank P.L.C. for $200 million, plus the $1.46 billion value of the loans accumulated by Lloyds through its network of 15 American offices. Lloyds said that last year the middle-market lending business produced profits of about $11 million, but was not as profitable as it would have liked.
Other recent forays by Japanese companies into the American lending market include the Mitsui Bank's purchase for $100 million earlier this summer of a 5 percent stake in the consumer and commercial credit operations of the Los Angeles-based Security Pacific Corportion. In 1984, the Fuji Bank paid $425 million to buy control of Heller International, a commercial finance company like CIT.
After setting aside the additional funds as a reserve and swallowing the loss, Manufacturers Hanover will have reserves for about 36 percent of its loans to the developing countries, up from 22 percent. At 36 percent, its reserve will be roughly in line with reserves kept by other large New York banks.
In addition, the bank will have equity capital - the shareholder money that serves as a cushion against bad times and is available to finance expansion - equal to about 5.1 percent of assets, also nearer the average of other large banks. After the bank completes its sale of new stock and sells control of CIT, Manufacturers Hanover's capital, adjusted for risk according to a formula set by Federal regulators, will equal 10 percent of its assets, higher than the 8 percent minimum to be imposed in 1992.
 
Mexican Negotiations Cited
Mr. McGillicuddy said results of Mexican debt negotiations suggested that it would be wise to set aside more funds for possible losses. Under the agreement worked out with Mexico to reorganize its debt, banks have the option of accepting a 35 percent reduction in the value of their loans, leading analysts to suggest that Manufacturers Hanover needed a larger reserve for loan losses. Federal regulators did not suggest an increase in the reserves, he added.
Apart from the third-quarter loss from the addition to reserves, Mr. McGillicuddy said, profits from the remaining parts of the company should continue to rise this year.
Last year Manufacturers Hanover sold its consumer finance and investment advisory units, and the sale now of control of CIT leaves the corporation with two remaining business groups. These are a regional banking operation in New York, for consumers and small and medium-sized businesses, and its global banking group, which arranges wholesale type financings for large corporations. Among American banks, Manufacturers Hanover is one of the most active in lending for corporate take-overs.
 
Approach Made Last Winter
Mr. McGillicuddy said Manufacturers Hanover first approached Dai-Ichi with the CIT offer late last winter after he read ''press reports that they were eager to expand into the asset-based business finance market.'' When Dai-Ichi executives described what they were looking for, he added, ''it sounded to us like they were reading from the CIT annual report.''
Investment bankers from Goldman, Sachs & Company made the overtures to Dai-Ichi officials, Mr. McGillicuddy said, ''and we danced around the maypole until about the middle of July.'' Last week, Manufacturers Hanover confirmed that serious discussions were under way.
''We wouldn't have sold CIT except for the fact that we are trying to raise capital,'' Mr. McGillicuddy said. In addition to putting the bank into compliance with bank standards set for 1992, he said, the latest actions might encourage rating agencies to raise Manufacturers Hanover's ratings, which would enable it to borrow at lower interest rates. In recent years, Manufacturers Hanover has operated at a disadvantage to other banks because its weak capital position required it to pay slightly higher rates for borrowed funds than other large American banks.
 
Debt Ratings Affirmed
The Standard & Poor's Corporation yesterday affirmed Manufacturers Hanover's BBB- senior debt, BBB subordinated debt, BB-plus preferred stock and A-2 commercial paper ratings and also said it might upgrade $8 billion of CIT debt ratings.
Although Mr. McGillicuddy said CIT would not have been sold except for the need to raise additional capital, he contended that the company's earning potential had not been weakened. Besides retaining a 40 percent share of CIT, which will continue to distribute half its profits to its owners, Manufactures Hanover benefits because the sale removes $10 billion of assets from its balance sheet.
Manufacturers Hanover stock rose 87.5 cents on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, closing at $41.75. Last week, when traders first learned of plans to sell control of CIT, the stock rose $2.875 to $42.50. Yesterday's announcement was made after the market closed.
''Manufacturers Hanover has done itself a great favor by squarely addressing its need for more capital,'' said Robert B. Albertson, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs.
Analysts said it would be premature to assume that other banks would follow Manufacturers Hanover in adding to their loan-loss reserves.
 
Japanese Not Aggressive
Mr. Albertson said Japanese banks had not been aggressive buyers into American banks ''because they have plenty of developments in their home market to keep them occupied.'' Besides keeping a wary eye on outside banks like Citibank, which is eager to expand its branch network in Japan, the Japanese banks are in a highly competitive market for consumer loan and deposit products, and are considering ways to expand into the business of distributing stocks and bonds.
Manufacturers Hanover is not the only American bank to seek fresh capital from Japan. In a separate announcement yesterday, the NCNB Corporation of Charlotte, N.C., announced plans to sell five million shares of common stock to Japanese investors, at $51 a share. It was the second offering in the Japanese market for NCNB, which sold four million shares for $100 million in 1987. Since then, the North Carolina bank's stock price has improved sharply as its earnings rose after a Government-assisted acquisition of the First Republic Bank, once the largest bank in Texas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); CIT (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (58%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (58%); CIT GROUP INC (56%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: CIT GROUP; MANUFACTURERS HANOVER CORP; DAI-ICHI KANGYO BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; CREDIT; FINANCES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); BONDS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL



444 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Hungary Restores Ties With Israel

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Hungary today became the first Communist country to restore full diplomatic relations with Israel after having broken them over the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.
The move, which followed a recent warming between Budapest and Jerusalem, was announced at a brief ceremony by Foreign Ministers Moshe Arens of Israel and Gyula Horn of Hungary. Mr. Arens flew here this morning, signed the joint protocol, called briefly on Prime Minister Miklos Nemeth and returned to Israel.
In a brief interview, he said the decision had been reached only two days ago. ''I feel very good about it,'' he said. ''It's a historic occasion.'' Business Accord in the Works In another initiative in redirecting its foreign policy toward closer links with the West, Hungary announced today, jointly with the United States, that the two countries would negotiate ''a comprehensive business and economic agreement.'' 
This move was announced by Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher at a news conference with Trade Minister Tamas Beck. Mr. Mosbacher arrived Sunday night on a two-day visit.
The two steps followed Hungary's action last week opening its border with Austria to East Germans seeking to emigrate to West Germany, against East Berlin's wishes.
That direct defiance of its Warsaw Pact ally East Germany, with whom relations have sunk to their lowest point ever, is seen by Hungarians and foreign diplomats as a watershed in Hungary's rapidly growing assertion of a more independent, West-oriented foreign policy. #14,000 East Germans Flee About 14,000 East Germans have crossed into Austria and continued to West Germany since last Monday, and the border remains open, although the outpouring has slowed markedly.
Until today, Rumania was the only Warsaw Pact member that maintained full diplomatic relations with Israel. It defied the Soviet Union and refused to break ties with Israel in 1967. Poland and Hungary resumed limited diplomatic relations with Israel two years ago, when missions below embassy status were opened in Warsaw, Budapest and Tel Aviv.
A de facto relationship, with an exchange of consular delegations, has also brought the Soviet Union and Israel closer. Mr. Arens expressed hope that these ties, too, would soon be raised to full diplomatic level.
The Israeli Foreign Minister said Hungary expected that Israel would help expand its economic links to the West. He said this was based on ''a realistic evaluation that Israel has some very good contacts with top business people in the world.''
 
Setting Itself Apart
The new relationship with Israel is the second established by Hungary in one year that sets its apart from the Communist world. Last September it became the first Communist country to exchange diplomatic missions with South Korea. This year they were raised to embassy rank.
The proposed comprehensive business and economic agreement was described by Mosbacher aides as an American idea that the Commerce Secretary proposed to Mr. Beck today and found readily accepted. Negotiations will get under way before the end of the year, the aides said.
The idea was devised by the United States to meet the conditions of a Communist country that is seeking to transform its centralized economy by creating a significant private sector.
Ambassador Mark Palmer said at a news conference that American investment in Hungary amounted to half the total Western investment of about $300 million. He contrasted the relatively small Western private-capital flow with Hungary's high indebtedness to the West - $17 billion.
 
FAVORED STATUS FOR BUDAPEST
HELENA, Mont., Sept. 18 (Special to The New York Times) - President Bush said today that he would grant permanent most-favored-nation trading status to Hungary starting next month, as well as free duties on some products.
The Administration said Hungary, which had been getting annual waivers to receive most-favored-nation benefits for the last several years, would become the first country in Eastern Europe to get the reduced tariffs on a continuous basis.
At a news conference here, Mr. Bush said the United States was not yet ready to grant preferred trading status to the Soviet Union, despite the Kremlin's policy of letting more Soviet Jews emigrate.
''There are encouraging signs coming out of the Soviet Union and we're going to continue to look at them closely,'' Mr. Bush said.
Mr. Bush said the shift in trade status was ''in the mix'' before the Hungarian Government allowed East German refugees to go through Hungary to the West.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Foreign Minister Moshe Arens of Israel, left, and his Hungarian counterpart, Gyula Horn, exchanging protocol agreements at a ceremony in Budapest. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (98%); ISRAEL (97%); GERMANY (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); POLAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); AUSTRIA (73%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (94%); WARSAW, POLAND (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY; ISRAEL, STATE OF; EAST GERMANY

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HUNGARY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (56%); 

PERSON: ARENS, MOSHE (MIN); HORN, GYULA (MIN); KAMM, HENRY; MOSBACHER, ROBERT A SR (SEC) MOSHE ARENS (73%); GYULA HORN (58%); 



445 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Yeltsin in U.S.: Pravda's Ugly Profile

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 18

 BODY:
The visit to America of Boris N. Yeltsin, the critic of the Kremlin, was depicted at length today in the Communist Party newspaper Pravda as a vulgar spree by a hard-drinking demagogue.
After ignoring Mr. Yeltsin's eight-day visit until now, Pravda signaled the party's sensitivity to his overseas popularity by publishing a long, mocking attack on his behavior and character reprinted from La Repubblica, the Italian newspaper.
With scanty direct attribution, the article said Mr. Yeltsin had greeted an unidentified faculty member at one speaking stop, Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, with ''a slobbering drunken kiss and a half-empty bottle of whisky.''
''He leaves behind in his tracks predictions of Soviet catastrophes, crazy spending, interviews and the particular smell of the famous Jack Daniels Kentucky whisky,'' the correspondent, Vittorio Zucconi, reported in the article reprinted in Pravda. 
 
Ousted From Party Job
Mr. Yeltsin, who just completed his eight-day visit to the United States, was ousted as Moscow Communist Party leader in 1987 after making a speech complaining about the slow pace of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's economic changes. He ran for the new Congress of People's Deputies in the election in March, collecting almost 90 percent of the vote for a citywide seat, and since then has been chosen a leader of the Soviet Union's first independent parliamentary caucus.
In the article, Mr. Zucconi claimed to have ascertained that Mr. Yeltsin, during his trip, consumed two bottles of vodka, four bottles of whisky and an incalculable number of cocktails at official receptions while often staying awake much of the night and drinking alone in his hotel room.
The correspondent offered no indication of his sources in the article. It was widely read and discussed by Soviet citizens who asked Western friends whether it could be true. [Mr. Zucconi said in Washington that his material had come from an article in The Washington Post, from people in the Russian emigre community in Washington and from other sources.] ''For Yeltsin, America was a feast day, a theater stage, a bar 5,000 kilometers long,'' said the newspaper. ''For America, Yeltsin is a wonderful new toy, a doll with a typical Russian face that says things no Russian ever dared to say before.''
 
'It's Garbage,' Yeltsin Says
In the one accusation attributed by name, the correspondent contended that an accountant named Alfred Ross, supposedly employed by the Esalen Institute, sponsor of the Yeltsin visit, reported that Mr. Yeltsin was wasting speaking fees that he had publicly promised to give to Soviet AIDS victims. ''Put it on the account, on the account,'' Mr. Yeltsin was said to have shouted in department stores as he supposedly rushed about buying video recorders and clothes.
In the only other specific reference to an individual, the report said that Mr. Yeltsin, tired from drink and jet lag, fell asleep in front of Pamela Harriman, the widow of Averell Harriman, the former American Ambassador to the Soviet Union. She ''gave a motherly smile,'' according to the dispatch, as Mr. Yeltsin's head dropped ''right on the table.''
The article was published as Mr. Yeltsin was flying home to Moscow.
When he returned to Moscow, The Associated Press reported, he said, ''It's garbage.''
''It's a simple lie, slander, and revenge for the fact that Americans received us with admiration,'' A.P. quoted him as saying.
The 1,500-word article, reprinted without comment, was more significant as a public measure of the Communist hierarchy's deep displeasure with Mr. Yeltsin than as an account of his travels.
''Yeltsin brought carnal smells and the physical vigor of the homeland of Mother Russia to the corridors of American power,'' the report declared.
''He has everything he dreamed about - whisky, dollars, knickknacks and 'Rambo' videocassettes,'' the newspaper asserted, quoting him as surprising even Washingtonians who are ''used to seeing alcoholic senators and debauched deputies every day.''
 
Sponsor Denies Charges
The sponsor of Mr. Yeltsin's trip denied yesterday that the former Moscow party boss was ever drunk during the tour and said he was convinced that the Pravda's account was politically motivated.
''They are looking for some way to denigrate Mr. Yeltsin,'' said Jim Garrison, executive director of the Esalen Institute's Soviet American Exchange Program. ''He knew when he left that the knives would be out and sharpened for him when he got home. But he's a big boy. He can handle it.''
Pamela Harriman, who attended a lunch in Mr. Yeltsin's honor in New York last week, denied the report that he had fallen asleep in front of her. ''He was very much not asleep,'' she said in a telephone interview.
Mr. Garrison, who accompanied Mr. Yeltsin on his trip, said, ''There was no indication at any point along the way that he was drinking heavily.''
Mr. Garrison said that on one evening in Baltimore, Mr. Yeltsin and four members of his entourage went through a quart of Jack Daniels. ''For five grown men to go through a bottle of whisky, that is not heavy drinking,'' Mr. Garrison said. Mr. Garrison said that Mr. Yeltsin never set foot in a department store, although on his last stop, in Miami, he did dispatch an aide to buy gifts - mainly blue jeans and children's clothes -with money from the $100 per diem from the Esalen Institute. They were unable to find a video recorder suited for the Soviet Union, Mr. Garrison said.
He said Mr. Yeltsin's trip would result in at least $100,000 in donations to Soviet AIDS patients.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (72%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RETAILERS (60%); AIDS & HIV (50%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N; CLINES, FRANCIS X



446 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Town Agonizes Over Dioxin Levels

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GEORGETOWN, S.C., Sept. 14

 BODY:
The paper industry was surprised a few years ago when a study showed that paper mills were producing toxic dioxin and releasing it into nearby rivers.
But when a follow-up survey of the nation's paper mills became public this year, nowhere was there more dismay than in this river town. The report by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency said dioxin emissions from the giant International Paper Company plant into the murky Sampit River here were the highest of the 104 paper mills studied.
The median for the mills where dioxin was measurable was 0.024 parts per trillion. The International Paper plant here had readings as high as 0.640 parts per trillion. 
Despite steps that the company took to reduce emissions immediately, a combination of confusion and anger has resulted in a town where fishermen have been pulling their dinners from the Sampit River for years. And it left the community trying to grapple with one of the most emotional, but least defined, environmental issues. The Government, in fact, has no standards for the amount of dioxin that may be in effluents measured in the study.
 
Health Effect Is Uncertain
Dioxin, a long-lived byproduct of bleaching paper pulp, has been described as one of the most toxic substances known to man. But despite evidence that it causes cancer in laboratory animals, studies on humans have been inconclusive, and same scientists now say that dioxin, particularly at the levels commonly produced by paper mills and other industrial processes, poses less of a threat to human health than was first thought.
''Dioxin has become sort of a symbol for environmental contamination,'' said Michael Kamrin, an expert on dioxin at the Center for Environmental Toxicology at Michigan State University. ''But all you can say is we have tons of studies on animals, but we don't really have any good data on the effects on humans.''
That is little consolation to this town of more than 10,000 people.
''We're so used to apathy here, but what surprises me is how concerned everyone is about this,'' said Carol Winans, president of the League of Women Voters, who recently organized a forum on dioxin. ''Everywhere I go, it's what people want to talk about. I don't know which group of scientists is right, but why should I take the risk?''
The whole matter arose almost by accident in 1985 when scientists found unexpectedly high levels of dioxin near paper mills that bleach paper pulp with chlorine. Studies of five mills in 1986 and of 104 last year found all but a handful were producing dioxin and releasing it into rivers. But paper mills as a whole account for less than 1 percent of the nation's known production of dioxin; municipal waste incinerators account for 60 percent of the output, largely as a result of the burning of plastics.
National concerns were also raised recently about the presence of trace quantities of dioxin in milk cartons, but Federal officials said on Sept. 1 that there is no indication the dioxin in the cartons poses a health risk. Still, mills have taken steps to reduce the levels.
 
High Dioxin Levels in Fish
Of particular concern for the mills was the concentration of dioxin in fish in nearby rivers. In the Sampit, elevated levels of dioxin were found in fish, particularly white perch and catfish. The Federal Food and Drug Administration, in a warning about dioxin in the Great Lakes, warned residents of the region to reduce consumption of contaminated fish when the levels in them reach 25 to 50 parts per trillion and stop eating fish with levels above that.
White perch in the Sampit have been found to have levels as high as 49 parts per trillion. In June, South Carolina officials posted signs warning fishermen not to eat fish or shellfish from the river, and they have issued a milder warning for white perch, and catfish taken from nearby Winyah Bay.
Dr. Carl Schulz, a toxicologist at the University of South Carolina School of Public Health said that because so many poor people in the area get a sizable amount of their protein by eating fish from the river, the consumption here poses particular risks.
''I'm not a rabid environmentalist in a lot of ways,'' Dr. Schulz said, ''but I felt for this particular group of people in Georgetown, it's a very serious situation.''
Officials with the State Department of Health and Environmental Control are planning closer monitoring of fish and crabs in the Sampit and Winyah Bay to determine if further restrictions, like a ban on commercial fishing, are needed. Winyah Bay is a center for commercial fishing, and any restrictions there would cut further into the community's economic life. Some residents say commercial crabbers are still working the river and selling their wares.
 
Plant Reduces Emissions
Officials at the plant say they have cut dioxin emissions by 83 percent and plan to reduce them further. ''We appreciate the community's concerns,'' said the plant manager, Roger H. Purrington. ''We're not unfeeling; we live here, too. We feel really good about being able to move fast and get the reductions as quickly as we have.''
But critics say the reduction leaves dioxin production well above the average found in the study of 104 paper mills. And they say that since dioxin levels will remain high for years even if new production stops, the reduction is only slowing the rate of growth of the dioxin content.
The Sampit, a narrow muddy river lined with scrawny vegetation, has not been anything close to pristine for a long time. But in a region where fishing is as much a rite as a sport, the situation here, combined with mounting pollution problems on some other Southern rivers, at times evokes sadness as much as concern.
''There was a letter to the editor of the paper the other day that talked about coming down the Waccamaw River and feeling like you were in the Garden of Eden and then coming to the Sampit and finding the signs that the fish weren't safe to eat,'' James Chandler, an environmental lawyer, said as he steered a small boat along the Sampit. ''We've won some cases lately, and you think you're making some progress, then something like this comes along and you realize you didn't even know what the problem really was.''

GRAPHIC: Discharges from the International Paper Company plant in Georgetown, S.C., showed the highest level of dioxin contamination by 104 mills studied by the Federal Environmental Protection Agency. (NYT/Wade Spees); map of Georgetown showing location of Sampit River (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IP (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (83%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO; ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SAMPIT RIVER (SC); GEORGETOWN (SC)

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; DIOXIN (CHEMICAL); HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; PAPER AND PULP; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE PAPER MILLS (94%); PAPER & PACKAGING (92%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); PAPER MFG (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); PULP MILLS (78%); BLEACHING AGENTS (78%); PULP INDUSTRY (78%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); TOXICOLOGY (78%); ANIMALS (70%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (61%); CHLORINE (60%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); VOTERS & VOTING (60%); CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER



447 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Hungary's Heart, and America's

 BODY:
Four months ago Hungary ripped a hole in the barbed wire in its section of the Iron Curtain. Now, more dramatically, it gives East Germans safe passage to the West. For that, Hungary deserves America's salute - and more. Yesterday's announcement that the Bush Administration hopes to grant Hungary new trade status is a timely step in the right direction. 
Many of the East Germans fleeing to the West are young skilled workers who went to Hungary on holiday visas issued by the East German Government. They encamped on Hungary's border with Austria, obviously hoping to go on to West Germany. After informing Moscow and Washington, Hungary let them go.
Their arrival in West Germany is reason to rejoice and reflect. In finding a new home they have also breached old boundaries, intellectual and geographic.
For one thing, the exodus challenges East Germany's faith in its own brand of socialism. Enfeebled, insecure, increasingly absorbed in a succession struggle, the East German regime believed its ''economic miracle'' would shelter it against political winds. Why deny some of its most efficient workers well-earned holidays?
The exodus also further undermines the notion of a monolithic East Bloc. When the vacationers took flight, East Germany attacked its ally for treaty violations. Hungary defended itself by invoking not the Warsaw Pact but the Helsinki accords. And when Hungary approached Moscow, it was reassured that letting the workers go was its own internal affair. Moscow's message to East Germany was clear, too: Get in tune with the times.
Finally, the exodus exposed contradictions in the recurrent German dream of reunification. West German employers hurried to the border to hire the new arrivals. But some West German workers expressed fears that their East German brethren would take away jobs.
Nor does the exodus begin the reunification of the German states. It is a reunion of German people - mostly going one way.
The economic attraction of the West has had much to do with the workers' flight and the Hungarians' solicitude. Yet Washington remains anxious about growing economic ties between Eastern and Western Europe, as if economic attraction drew Westerners eastward, not the other way around.
Offering negotiations that would make permanent Hungary's trading status as a most favored nation signals a welcome change in policy. But the Administration could do more, easing restrictions on some high-tech exports, underwriting more private investment and extending emergency refugee aid to Hungary.
The East German Government still yearns for the cold war. There's no cause for Washington to do the same.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FINLAND (79%); 

CITY: HELSINKI, FINLAND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; HUNGARY

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HUNGARY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; MOST-FAVORED NATION TREATMENT; ASYLUM, POLITICAL INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (89%); REFUGEES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); COLD WAR (78%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (50%); 



448 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 25, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
Thanks, Boris, but No

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Americans who meet Boris Yeltsin in Moscow sometimes tell him it is a pity he is not American himself. They say he is so charming, so open and candid that he would win an election back home.
That seems to have gone straight to Mr. Yeltsin's heart. When he was in the United States last week, he treated Americans pretty much as American politicians often do - as if we were all a bunch of nincompoops. 
Mr. Yeltsin is a leader of the opposition to Mikhail Gorbachev within the party. It's easy to see why so many Russians love him. He is big and hale and says things they are still getting used to hearing about what a mess the Soviet Union is in.
But in speeches or talks with Americans around the country and to the Bush Administration, Mr. Yeltsin delivered a message that has not been matched for chutzpah since Jackie Mason first took a microphone in hand.
It had two parts: 1. The Soviet Union is in a state of crisis and after one year may fall right into the abyss. Things are much worse than you Americans know. You are much too euphoric about perestroika, which is not working. Mr. Gorbachev is an ineffective compromiser. 2. Therefore join us as we stand on the lip of the abyss, staring down, mired in this mess of Communist failure. Give us loans, credits, technology, build a million apartments for us, provide consumer goods, take the heat off us, and maybe we won't fall in. Hurry.
Mr. Yeltsin also divulged to President Bush, Secretary of State Baker and other officials here the details of the Revolutionary Yeltsin Plan for solving the debacle brought about by a state-controlled economy. If he had the chance to change it, he said, the Soviet economy would be just 85 to 90 percent state-owned and collective and fully 10 to 15 percent private!
Mr. Yeltsin seemed sure he would fascinate the Administration with his mixture of doomsday warnings, demands for help and continued statism.
I do not know whether he knows it because everybody was polite, but within the Bush-Quayle-Baker team, he went down like a lead pirogi.
The Administration wants Mr. Gorbachev and his perestroika to keep afloat because evil days certainly may be possible if he fails.
But the Administration also has healthy doubts that Communism can rescue Communism and no strong inclination yet to take big risks on that gamble.
The Administration's reaction to Mr. Yeltsin - thank you, but no - is particularly important because of the meeting later this week between the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze, and Secretary of State Baker. To Europeans, Mr. Shevardnadze has been delivering the heart of the Yeltsin message: Things are getting much worse - help.
The Bush Administration expects him to say something like that to Mr. Baker when they meet in Wyoming this week. The Foreign Minister will get some advice - for instance, put freedom to emigrate into written law so Washington can legally give Moscow all trade advantages any other country gets. But if he is looking for major commitments, the weather in Wyoming may be cool in September, appropriately.
There is no evidence that Mr. Gorbachev's effort to save the Communist system by adjusting it will succeed and plenty that it will fail. If it does, people far worse than Mr. Gorbachev could take over.
But it could also happen that real freedom would come to the Soviet Union, the fruit of the wrenching effort of those who fought it from within and paid with years in cruel prison camps.
The victims and opponents of the Soviet system are the real heroes of their nation. The Yeltsins and the Gorbachevs climbed the Soviet ladder until they thought it was about to fall. Then they shouted alarm, which earns them credit and respect.
But think how much more is due to those who saw what the Yeltsins and Gorbachevs claim they did not until they got high up the ladder - the system was collapsing under its own tyrannical weight. For their wisdom, and in recognition of their years of pain, they deserve a chance for a share of political power and a clear voice heard in the West.
So far they have had little of either. They have ideas far different than Mr. Yeltsin's or Mr. Gorbachev's about how to help the Soviet people, not the Soviet apparatus, and when.
They have earned the right - as Solidarity had before it took office -to be heard in Washington. Only then can the United States make a rational decision on whether to bolster the present Soviet system or a new one that may emerge. Until then, thank you, but no.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; ROSENTHAL, A M GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 



449 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Nuclear Dump Plan Ignites Rural Protests

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

DATELINE: ANGELICA, N.Y., Sept. 12

 BODY:
Federal Express made an unwelcome delivery the other day to Marilyn Ostrander's farm here in the lush green hills of Allegany County.
The package of brochures and technical information from Albany was sent by the New York State Low-Level Radioactive Waste Siting Commission. Mrs. Ostrander's land, a cover letter explained, was one place where the state was thinking of putting the waste.
''This is crazy,'' said Mrs. Ostrander, a retired teacher, clutching the letter that informed her and her husband, George, that officials would visit their 60-acre property this fall to inspect it and conduct tests. ''Here we are living in absolutely the most beautiful part of the earth. It's clean, it's pristine. Why in the world are they talking about bringing nuclear waste here? ''I think it's wicked. I think it's criminal.'' Two Finalists Picked Like virtually every other state, New York is searching for a dump site because it is under a Federal mandate to find a home by 1993 for low-level nuclear waste that is now shipped to South Carolina and Nevada. It is conducting a contest nobody wants to win. 
Last December Allegany County, in southwestern New York, learned that it was one of 10 counties under consideration. Last weekend it learned that it and Cortland County, near the Finger Lakes, were the two finalists. Fear was already prevalent here; now, with the state sending out letters like the one the Ostranders received, anger has set in.
People not usually given to protest have gathered in force. On Main Street in the village of Almond, nearly every house has a bright orange ''Posted! No Dumping'' sign in the window. On Monday hundreds of people went to a rally in the county seat of Belmont, recited the Pledge of Allegiance and then vowed to do everything they could to block the dump.
''We'll get arrested as often as we can,'' said Sally Campbell, a founder of the Allegany County Non-Violent Action Group.
''We'll throw ourselves in front of bulldozers,'' said Mary Gardner Smith, a day-care worker from Wellsville.
Some went further. ''I'd almost predict - it's a terrible term, I know - but I'd almost say there might be guerrilla warfare if they try to bring this thing in,'' said Larry Deis, a house painter from Almond.
 
No Waste of Its Own
The county, with about 50,000 people, produces no nuclear waste of its own. Almost all of it would come from the New York City area, 300 miles to the east, or from nuclear reactors in Oswego County, 150 miles to the north. Why send it here? State officials say it will come here or go to Cortland County because they best fit the geologic criteria set down in the 1986 law passed by the Legislature to establish a dump.
Low-level radioactive waste includes fluids, resins, tools, machine parts and clothes. It comes from reactors, hospitals and certain companies licensed to handle radioactive materials. Some of the waste that will go to the dump will lose its contamination within months; some will remain radioactive for hundreds of years.
The state expects to send about 100,000 cubic feet of waste a year to the dump, or the equivalent of four tractor-trailer loads a week. High-level radioactive waste, like spent fuel rods or coolant from reactors, will continue to be stored at the reactors for eventual shipment to a storage center the Federal Government is planning to build in Nevada.
 
Efforts in Other States
Every other state is going through a process similar to New York's to find a site for nuclear waste, and in many of them similar protests have greeted officials trying to site a dump.
Only three states - California, Texas and Illinois - have announced decisions on where they plan to put the waste, said Edward L. Helminski, publisher in Washington of The Radioactive Exchange, a newsletter that tracks the efforts. New Jersey and Connecticut have formed a compact to dispose of their waste jointly, but they have been locked in a dispute on which state to put it in; sites in both states are under consideration at present.
In New York, consultants who completed an 11-volume scientific survey cited, among other factors, low water permeability in the clay soil of Allegany and Cortland Counties and drainage patterns that would deter leaching, said Jay D. Dunkleberger, an engineer who is executive director of the state's waste siting commission.
Low population around the site is also required, although officials insist that the dump will be absolutely safe and pose no health risk to people living nearby.
 
Residents See Discrimination
Many Allegany County residents scoffed at the technical data and said there were simpler reasons behind the state's conclusions. ''I think it's because we're very rural, very low population and very far away from Albany,'' said Karen Lorrow, a waitress at Muhleisen's Fine Food and Cocktails in the town of Almond.
''And we're very poor,'' said Carol Muhleisen, the restaurant's owner. Of New York State's 62 counties, Allegany ranks 62d in per-capita income, according to the state's Department of Economic Development.
Some officials in New York said they hoped the waste could continue to be taken out of the state altogether.
''I think we can find a spot elsewhere in the country where somebody wants this stuff,'' said Clarence D. Rappleyea Jr., the Republican leader in the State Assembly whose district includes the two Cortland County sites. Mr. Rappleyea said he had spoken with officials in towns in Illinois, Texas and Washington who had expressed interest in taking the waste as a moneymaking project.
There is nothing in the Federal law to prevent New York from shipping its waste to another state if that state is willing to accept it.
 
Out-of-State Solution Doubted
But Mr. Dunkleberger, the New York commission's executive director, said that while that remained a possible option, he believed it was ''highly unlikely'' another state would actually approve of such a plan, even if a community said it was willing to take the waste.
Last weekend the New York siting commission said it had narrowed its search to five areas, each roughly a mile square. Two in Cortland County are both in the town of Taylor. Here in Allegany County, there is a site in the town of Allen, where the Ostrander property extends; another in the towns of Allen and Caneadea, and a third in the town of West Almond.
While protests had been common enough in the last several months, they multiplied with the latest announcement.
 
Radium and Radishes Don't Mix
Richard and Marion Bagley, who live on Main Street in Almond, nailed an orange ''No Dumping'' sign to a tree in their front yard and put another one by their front door.
''We're not great protesters, but this has us really upset,'' Mrs. Bagley said.
''We've never really protested anything before,'' Mr. Bagley said, ''except when the creek overflowed here a few years back.''
In Cortland County, like Allegany a heavily agricultural area, hundreds of people have protested against the dump, with one official telling people at a rally that ''radium and radishes don't make good neighbors.''
Meanwhile, in eight other counties that had been on the commission's original list, there have been expressions of relief. Many of the groups formed to oppose the siting of a dump in their community have vowed to assist the groups that still have the problem on their hands.

GRAPHIC: photos of Mary Gardner Smith and Susan Beckhorn (pg. B1); Richard and Marion Bagley (NYT/Joe Traver); map of Angelica, N.Y. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (93%); SIC4215 COURIER SERVICES EX. BY AIR (93%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALLEGANY COUNTY (NY); CORTLAND COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; NUCLEAR WASTES NUCLEAR WASTE (91%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (91%); COUNTIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LANDFILLS (57%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE



450 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Bush, in a Visit to the West, Prods Congress About Key Bills

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HELENA, Mont., Sept. 18

 BODY:
President Bush gave Congress a sharp elbow today, suggesting that it ''move fast'' on his legislation covering crime, drugs and the environment.
''I don't want to be hypercritical,'' Mr. Bush said at a news conference in the Senate chamber of the State Capitol here. ''But I must say there's a certain frustration level when you come out with a sound program and two answers come out: spend more and raise taxes.''
He added, ''I think we ought to try now to move some of these things forward in the last days of this Congress.'' 
The President said that he did not think it was right for Democrats to threaten not to support his budget because the capital gains tax cut he supports was approved by the House Ways and Means Committee last week.
 
Two-Day Western Swing
''I don't think it is right for people who get whipped on an issue in a committee to then start a lot of threats on the other side, saying, 'We'll never deal with the President,' '' he said.
Mr. Bush is on a two-day Western swing for the centennials of South Dakota, Montana and Washington. Originally, the stops in these states were to be added to a trip to Alaska to tour Prince William Sound, where the tanker Exxon Valdez grounded March 24, causing the nation's worst oil spill.
But with fresh controversy over the Exxon Corporation's decision to call off its cleanup at least for the winter, White House officials decided that a Presidential tour of Prince William Sound would only renew questions about the Federal role in the cleanup.
Mr. Bush was asked why he did not go to Alaska or did not mention the oil spill in his speeches today, when he had styled himself as the environmental President.
 
'A Rather Busy Time'
''Please don't associate my not going to Alaska at a rather busy time with a lack of interest in Prince William Sound,'' he replied. He also said he had sent emissaries to Alaska.
Reminded about violent racial incidents that have occurred recently, including the killing of a black youth in the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn, Mr. Bush was asked what it says about the state of race relations in the nation.
''Well, it says something ugly whenever there's an incident of that nature,'' he said. ''I hope there's no trend toward more and more divisiveness along racial lines, and I will do my best to speak out against bigotry wherever it occurs, racism wherever it occurs.''
The President said he had ''no hard intelligence evidence'' that he, his family or other Americans have been targeted by Colombian drug traffickers.
 
'No Hard Evidence'
If drug lords were planning retaliation for the American aid to the Colombian Government, he said: ''I think I take a rather dim view of it. There is no hard intelligence evidence of such targeting.''
Was concerned about security for his children or other members of his family? ''No I'm not afraid. I have great confidence in the selflessness and in the thoroughness of the intelligence community and of the Secret Service.''
Even though his advisers did not want him to go to Alaska, Mr. Bush, whose approval ratings on handling of environmental issues dropped after he declined to visit Alaska immediately after the oil spill, used the centennials to talk about conservation.
In Sioux Falls, S.D., and here in Helena before spending the night in Spokane, Wash., Mr. Bush talked about ''the need to awaken a new spirit of environmentalism across the country.''
 
Role for the Peace Corps
Speaking at the State Capitol here, Mr. Bush announced a new initiative to bring the Environmental Protection Agency and the Peace Corps together ''in a joint venture in the service of the global environment.''
With William K. Reilly, the Administrator of the environmental agency, at his side, the President summarized the new venture: ''Beginning in 1990, as part of their standard preparation for duty, Peace Corps volunteers will be trained by the E.P.A. to deal with a full range of environmental challenges -water pollution prevention, waste disposal, reforestation, pesticide management.
''Armed with greater knowledge about our environment, our Peace Corps volunteers are going to help spread the word in the developing world,'' he continued. ''They'll work to stop pollution before it starts, and insure that economic development and environmental stewardship go hand in hand.''
Setting the stage for an education ''summit conference'' to be held next week in Charlottesville, Va., Mr. Bush said that ''the plain truth is that our educational system is not making the grade.''
He said the education conference ''will be as wide-ranging as the West,'' and added: ''I meant it when I said earlier, 'Washington doesn't know best - the people do.' For I reject the notion of Federal mandates, Federal bullying, in education. Instead, what we need are local ideas, local creativity, and more local autonomy.''
Mr. Bush planted trees, birthday presents from the White House, in South Dakota and Montana. He also talked in a folksy way about the delights of the West, quoting Thoreau and, in his speech here, marveling at Montana's ''big sky'' and 896 ''catchable'' fish per square mile.
Then, in one more jab at Congress, he noted that the Montana State Capitol was just a mile away from Last Chance Gulch and said, ''There's a herd back on Capitol Hill that I'd like to move in my direction.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: HELENA, MT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (82%); PEACE CORPS (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; DRUG TRAFFIC; DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; ENVIRONMENT LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RACE & RACISM (87%); OIL SPILLS (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); TRENDS (69%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (69%); APPROVALS (68%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); DOWD, MAUREEN GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



451 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 15, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: The 'People's Opera' vs. Parity for the Musicians

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
The current strike by the New York City Opera orchestra doesn't seem on the surface to make a whole lot of sense - for either side. The two parties appear to be within negotiating distance, and the six-day-old strike threatens the entire fall season, which is scheduled to end Nov. 19. Indeed, Martin J. Oppenheimer, vice chairman of the City Opera and its chief negotiator, said that if the strike began to approach the 54 days of the orchestra's 1983 strike, ''it will last a lot longer than that, because we'll cancel the entire season.''
Yet there is a fundamental issue that separates the parties and that may explain why a strike has come at this juncture. That issue is the continuing contradiction between the orchestra's demands and the City Opera's populist mandate, which entails low ticket prices and harsh economies. In that connection, there is also concern about the departure this year of the charismatic Beverly Sills as the company's general director, and what her loss will mean to the City Opera's ability to raise money. 
Despite Mr. Oppenheimer's cancellation threat, the tone of the negotiations has been mostly conciliatory -even though the last formal proposals, placed on the table in July, staked out widely divergent positions. The City Opera musicians currently earn a weekly minimum of $755.25, with additional hourly wages for rehearsals, and the City Opera's top ticket price is $47. The orchestra has asked for a raise of more than 20 percent, to put it at parity with the orchestras of the San Francisco Opera and the Lyric Opera of Chicago, whose top ticket prices are roughly one and a half times that of the City Opera.
 
Shrinking Season Feared
The company has offered only a 4 percent raise annually over a three-year pact. It also says it wants to rescind a current guarantee of six additional weeks beyond the base season of 23 weeks, wherein the players are now offered either regular employment or supplemental benefits amounting to roughly one-half of their full wages.
There is also a nearly definite plan to import the Bolshoi Ballet next summer to the opera's home, the New York State Theater at Lincoln Center, which would reduce the 23-week season to 20 weeks. The orchestra fears that plan is the opening wedge to a shrinking of the City Opera season on a regular basis.
Yet Mr. Oppenheimer has denied that the Bolshoi engagement at the expense of the City Opera is the ''beginning of a trend,'' calling it ''a one-shot'' arrangement by the Nederlander organization.
Few would disagree that the orchestra has been chronically underpaid, in comparison with similar ensembles locally and nationally. But that's part of the traditional City Opera modus operandi, applying to all the performing forces, not just the musicians.
 
A 45-Year Tradition
And it is a situation that seems inseparable from the popularly priced ''people's opera'' tradition that has defined the City Opera since its inception 45 years ago. From an artistic standpoint, it might make sense in the long run for the City Opera to re-examine that tradition and boost ticket prices, raise even more money and begin to pay more not only to its orchestra, chorus and dancers but to its solo singers as well.
As it stands, New York is given infrequent exposure to a whole host of American singers who are stars on the regional opera circuit. They may appear here when they are young and occasionally thereafter to keep up their New York presence. But the City Opera pays too little, and rehearses its repertory productions too hectically, for many of them to make it a habit.
But such a basic change in policy would cost a fortune and flout the City Opera's populist inclinations. In addition, it might set up a more direct competition with the Metropolitan Opera for singers, which the City Opera would lose. It would also require far more planning and preparation, in a more contemplative climate, than the atmosphere of a labor negotiation.
Indeed, unlike the disruptions in 1983, when the City Opera was in truly desperate financial straits and Miss Sills had just unilaterally reshuffled and curtailed the annual work schedule, no profound changes are now in the offing. Christopher Keene, who succeeded Miss Sills as general director, and Robert W. Wilson, the board chairman, have declined to talk during the strike negotiations. But Mr. Oppenheimer has denied any intention of permanently shrinking the City Opera season, altering its schedule, rethinking its repertory policy or moving out of Lincoln Center and back to a more intimate, more acoustically congenial but less glamorous theater.
 
Five-Year Grant Expiring
The company says it cannot guarantee six supplemental weeks because it does not know where it could obtain the money for that work after the expiration next year of the late Lawrence Wien's $5 million grant for five seasons of spring musicals. But in 1983, after similar denials that it could not guarantee work it did not already have funds for, the company did just that.
Attendance for the 1989 summer season was slightly under projections, company spokesmen concede. But the fall season is traditionally stronger at the box office, thus giving the company little incentive to welcome a strike as a means of stemming its deficit.
The key reason for a strike now would seem to be a frustrated orchestra's sense that the company might feel vulnerable at the point of transition from Miss Sills to Mr. Keene, and the company's nervous apprehension that its fund-raising clout may erode with her no longer at the helm.
Miss Sills was a formidable fund raiser, and while she remains in the newly created post of board president, she is likely to play a less active role in the company's future.
The orchestra justifies its demands by pointing to the company's own boast that it raises more money annually than any other American performing-arts organization apart from the Met. ''We've repeated that for a long time,'' Mr. Oppenheimer concedes. ''It's a staggering statement, and I think it's even true. Unlike 1983, we're not going out of business. We're going to be here for the foreseeable future.''
''But,'' he added, ''Beverly was our premier fund raiser, and it's going to be an enormous challenge now.''
Like legendary warriors, condemned by fate to fight the same battle over and over again, the City Opera negotiators don't know any other avenue to compromise except confrontation. Apart from 1986, no City Opera orchestra contract since 1962 has been settled without some sort of work stoppage. It is a sad legacy, and the company's loyal public can only hope both sides can bend enough to resolve their differences quickly.

GRAPHIC: Photo of striking members of the City Opera Orchestra (NYT/Ruby Washington)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NEDERLANDER ORGANIZATION INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY OPERA

SUBJECT: OPERA; ORCHESTRAS AND OTHER MUSIC GROUPS; PRICES; STRIKES SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); OPERA (78%); STRIKES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); DANCE COMPANIES (67%); IMPORT TRADE (64%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN BEVERLY SILLS (55%); 



452 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Dai-Ichi Kangyo will buy control of a Manufacturers Hanover unit and a portion of the bank's stock for $1.4 billion, the largest investment yet by a Japanese bank in a U.S. financial company. The financing will help to strengthen the financial condition of Manufacturers, which said it would add $950 million to its reserves for losses on third-world loans. [Page A1.] First Pennsylvania agreed to a $730 million merger with Corestates Financial. [D19.] First Interstate of Wisconsin said it would merge with Norwest. [D4.] 
 
Burroughs Wellcome cut the price of the AIDS drug AZT by 20 percent. Protests had been mounting over the drug's cost. [A1.]
 
A proposed $250 million loan to Campeau was held up by differences with banks over terms sought by Olympia & York. [D1.]
 
Additional investors are expected to join a Citicorp unit's effort to acquire a division of Del Monte. [D1.] Birmingham Steel agreed to be acquired by Harbert for about $375.6 million. [D4.]
 
A strike is threatening to slow Peugeot's momentum while the French auto maker is preparing to introduce a crucial model. [D1.] Imported cars again dominated the best- and worst-mileage categories in the E.P.A.'s annual survey. [D15.]
 
Delta, Northwest and TWA are considering a merger of their computer reservation systems. [D11.]
 
Six computer companies accused the National Intitutes of Health of awarding data processing contracts to I.B.M. without competition. [D2.] Apple and Microsoft are expected to cooperate on technology for the display and printing of typefaces. [D2.]
 
Sir James Goldsmith has come to America to try to persuade legislators and regulators that his takeover bid for B.A.T. poses no threat to the company's U.S. operations. [D4.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Companies are aggressively moving to control airline travel expenses, as fares used by business people have jumped. [A1.]
 
U.S. and Japanese executives had unusually blunt exchanges over trade imbalances at a conference on manufacturing. [D1.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
The Mexican Government intends to sell its majority stake in Telmex, the unpopular and inefficient telephone monopoly. [D1.]
 
President Bush said he would grant Hungary permanent most-favored-nation status, starting next month. [A3.]
 
The Brady plan to cut global debt could misfire by further shrinking the core of future lenders to the third world, the Institute of International Finance, which represents banks, contends. [D15.]
 
A U.S. Treasury official said cooperation might bring banking havens into the fight against laundering of drug money. [A18.]
 
MARKETS
 
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 12.92 points, to 2,687.50, in relatively slow trading. [D8.] The dollar dropped in the aftermath of last week's panicky decline. Gold prices fell. [D20.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities eased slightly in very sluggish trading. [D19.] Cocoa futures prices fell to new life-of-contract lows after the failure of a six-day meeting to guarantee prices. [D20.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Problems of air quality and congestion can be addressed without harming the trucking industry, says Thomas J. Donohue, of the American Trucking Associations. Talking Business. [D2.]
 
Oryx Energy's $1.31 billion deal with British Petroleum is an example of why American oil companies are placing more bets on foreign oilfields. Market Place. [D8.]
 
Advertising ''is about doing great creative work,'' says Allan Beaver of Levine, Huntley, Schmidt & Beaver. A retrospective of the agency's work shows that awards can be won for a variety of clients. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D23.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (66%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (66%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (66%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (66%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); APPLE INC (66%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MERGERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (85%); TAKEOVERS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); FUTURES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (76%); ANTIVIRALS (75%); DRUG PRICES (75%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (75%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); COCOA MARKETS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); AIDS & HIV (71%); GOLD MARKETS (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (66%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (66%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); CONTRACT AWARDS (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



453 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Out of Disorder, a Deal: 5 Weeks of UAL Talks

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
When the management of UAL agreed five weeks ago to listen to a proposal to participate with United Airlines' pilots in a buyout, relations between the sides were at a low. After more than a year of negotiations, there was almost no progress on a new contract, and on-the-job slowdowns by the pilots had caused many summer delays on United flights.
Yet less than two weeks later, leaders of the two sides emerged from a crucial meeting confident that they could buy the nation's second-largest airline together.
Interviews with most of the central players disclose that the quick turnaround - which led to a $6.75 billion offer for the UAL Corporation, the airline's parent, that was accepted by the company's independent directors on Thursday - can be attributed to four factors:
* A bid by Marvin Davis, the Los Angeles billionaire, persuaded UAL management that it would have to act in some way.
* Leaders of the pilots' union were well prepared with a proposal for a joint buyout, a plan they had been honing for more than two years. 
* The two sides agreed in many ways on how the power in an employee-owned company should be divided.
* Finally, the concessions on wages and benefits offered by the pilots and the tax advantages of the employee stock ownership plan envisioned in the buyout made a management-labor offer difficult to top.
 
'Davis Was the Catalyst'
The rapid turn of events was begun by a $240-a-share bid for UAL by Mr. Davis, made public on Aug. 7. The offer, later raised to $275, forced management and the UAL board, which had twice refused to consider a buyout proposal by the pilots, to begin to explore such a possibility.
''Davis was the catalyst,'' said Eugene J. Keilin, a general partner at Lazard Freres & Company, who was the leading investment banker to advise the union. ''He forced management to come to grips with our proposal.''
When on Aug. 11 UAL said it was willing to have its investment banker, First Boston, listen to an employee buyout proposal, the pilots were ready.
Within hours of the call from UAL, Frederick C. Dubinsky, the chairman of the governing body of the United pilots' union, was on a plane to New York from Chicago. His briefcase was filled with papers that had been ready since 1987 for such a bid. He did not have time to go home and pack anything else.
At the time of the call, contract talks between United and its pilots had bogged down. And some of the 6,100 pilots were ''flying by the book,'' causing delays. On-time performance had plummeted. United's chairman and chief executive, Stephen M. Wolf, was also seething because the union had decided not to fly two new Boeing 747-400's until it had a new contract, frustrating the company's plans to expand and upgrade its service across the Pacific.
 
'Close to Confrontation'
''We were getting close to confrontation,'' Mr. Dubinsky recalled. Indeed, the pilots were beginning to consider using their ultimate weapon, a strike.
But after meeting with UAL's bankers in New York, Mr. Dubinsky found that the pilots and the management group could agree in some important ways. Both sides were committed to having a board with a majority of independent directors and management that would largely have a free hand in running the company day to day.
The only area in which the pilots' union wanted control was in the broad decisions, like disposing of such major assets as the airline's Pacific routes or diversifying into other businesses. The union was granted that control; under the agreement, such changes would have to be approved both by a majority of the eight independent directors on the new 15-member board and by at least two of the three directors from United's participating unions.
Confidence that agreement could be reached on the delicate issue of the balance of power was largely reaffirmed in a meeting between Mr. Wolf and Mr. Dubinsky on Aug. 24.
 
New Lack of Tension
Mr. Dubinsky recalled that at the meeting, in a conference room at the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, which represented Mr. Wolf, ''it was casual; there was no tension between us.'' This had not been the case in earlier meetings.
Mr. Wolf had concluded that Mr. Davis had put the company ''in play'' and that it could not remain as it was.
Mr. Dubinsky recalled that although Mr. Wolf had been leaning toward a buyout by employees, he wanted reassurance that he and his management team would have the freedom to run the company without undue interference from labor.
''He needed to hear that from me face to face,'' Mr. Dubinsky said.
People close to the meeting said it was a turning point.
The bid by Mr. Davis had forced Mr. Wolf to step off the curb, Mr. Dubinsky said. The meeting between them ''persuaded him to cross the street.''
 
Cementing the Alliance
What finally cemented the alliance between management and labor was the growing realization that an employee stock ownership plan, with its tax advantages, would enable UAL to carry its huge interest costs with less effort and to repay debt faster.
Because the banks that will finance the buyout, led by Citibank and Chase Manhattan, can deduct 50 percent of the interest they earn on the loans in such a plan, they can lend the money at more favorable rates than in a transaction like that proposed by Mr. Davis, where no such tax breaks would be available.
The company can also deduct the money it borrows to buy the 75 percent stake that will be owned by the employees in the stock plan, further reducing the cost of the takeover. The management group, which includes Mr. Wolf, will own 10 percent of the company and British Airways P.L.C. 15 percent.
The pilots have also granted $250 million a year in wage and benefit concessions, which would reduce United's labor costs and provide more cash to pay off its higher debt.
 
Flexibility on Loans
In its negotiations with banks, the buyout group has also won some flexibility to renegotiate its loans if the industry should go into a deep recession.
The banks looked with favor on the transaction, Mr. Keilin said, noting that when the group began to negotiate the expectation was that the lead banks would put up $500 million to $700 million of the $7.2 billion being sought, leaving the rest to be lent by syndicates of banks.
Instead, Citibank and Chase together committed to lending $3 billion.
Mr. Keilin recalled that after the pivotal meeting between Mr. Wolf and Mr. Dubinsky, the rest of the negotiations proceeded fairly smoothly. British Airways came into the buyout the following week with a commitment to put up $750 million in equity. The pilots have promised $200 million in equity and the management group $15 million.
 
The Last Big Hurdle
But one big hurdle remained: approval by the Master Executive Council, the 24-member governing body of the United pilots' union.
Although the council had supported pursuing a buyout for several years, circumstances had changed. The carrier had grown stronger, and interest in a buyout had waned among union leaders.
Mr. Dubinsky recalled that before the Davis bid the union members and leaders had been preoccupied with negotiating a new contract that would provide for pay and benefit increases, rather than the concessions offered in the buyout, like a 10 percent pay cut, less vacation time and extra hours of work.
But the union council members had also become convinced over the last several years that they wanted control of the airline's strategy and direction so that United would not be sidetracked from its core business.
 
Grilled by Pilot Leaders
Mr. Keilin and other advisers were grilled repeatedly by pilot leaders, who wore business suits and were not the more free-wheeling, shirt-sleeves group they are at most meetings.
But Mr. Keilin was reassured after telling the group that British Airways had decided to join the buyout. ''They got up and gave a standing ovation,'' he recalled. After three days of debate and questioning, the group unanimously approved the proposal on Aug. 31.

GRAPHIC: graph of how new UAL Board will work

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (66%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (64%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (84%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES; INTERNATIONAL AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN (ALPA); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; EMPLOYEE OWNED COMPANIES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (75%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS MARVIN DAVIS (70%); 



454 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Japan Executives Exchange Barbs on Trade

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Tensions over the trade imbalance between the United States and Japan today produced some unusually blunt exchanges between chief executives gathered here for a conference on the outlook for manufacturing industries.
Akio Morita, the co-founder and chairman of the Sony Corporation, said 50 percent of American imports from Japan were now high-technology machinery and devices like microchips. ''The fact that the United States is losing its competitiveness in so many areas of high-tech manufacturing suggests that something is fundamentally amiss in American industry,'' he added. 
Mr. Morita said that because of the emphasis by Americans on short-term financial results, American manufacturers had not made investments that would pay off in the long term. But a top American executive chastised Japanese industry, and Mr. Morita directly, for what he said was Japan's resistance to imports.
''The fact is that Japan remains a virtually impenetrable market for many foreign businesses,'' said Edward L. Hennessy Jr., the chairman of Allied-Signal Inc. Referring to a new book, ''The Japan That Can Say No,'' by Mr. Morita and Shintaro Ishihara, a Liberal Democratic Party politician who was a candidate for Prime Minister in August, Mr. Hennessy added, ''Instead of a Japan that can say 'no,' all of us need a Japan that can say 'yes' to open markets.''
In the book, the authors suggested that Japan could use the United States' dependence on it for high-technology components as leverage in trade disputes.
Mr. Morita and Mr. Hennessy spoke at the International Industrial Conference, a meeting held every four years to assess the outlook for manufacturing industries. It is sponsored by the Conference Board, a business research group, and SRI International, a research and consulting organization.
According to the organizers, it is being attended by executives and Government officials from 31 countries, including the Soviet Union and Hungary.
Judging from questions posed to a panel of experts, the major concerns of executives here appear to be: increasingly stringent environmental standards, the development of trade blocs and changing social patterns.
''Burdens on companies will change in the 1990's,'' said Tore Browaldh, a Swedish banker who is the honorary chairman of Svenska Handelsbanken. ''There will be a shift from economic growth to care of the environment, health and safety for workers and women's rights.''
The participants agreed that environmental issues would become an increasingly contentious issue between industrialized countries and those just beginning their economic development. Saburo Okita, a former Japanese Foreign Minister, said, ''Developing countries are not signing the Montreal Protocol,'' which seeks to reduce the use of chemicals known as chlorofluorocarbons, which damage the earth's ozone layer.
Newly developing countries, he added, felt industrialized nations could afford to use less efficient substances, while they could not until they were economically advanced.
Mr. Okita also said Asian nations were increasing their cooperative efforts in response to the United States-Canadian trade treaty and the European Community's plans for economic integration after 1992. But he added that he doubted that a unified trade bloc would emerge in Asia, where countries were less alike socially and economically than in Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SON (LSE) (72%); SNE (NYSE) (72%); 6758 (TSE) (72%); SHB.B (STO) (51%); SHB.A (STO) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (72%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (72%); SRI INTERNATIONAL (53%); SVENSKA HANDELSBANKEN AB (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (85%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); WOMEN (69%); WRITERS (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (65%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (55%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN AKIO MORITA (93%); 



455 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 309 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Bank of Tokyo Trust Appoints a Chairman

BYLINE: By Daniel F. Cuff

 BODY:
After a 10-year tour of duty in Tokyo and in Jakarta, Indonesia, Kenji Yoshizawa is returning to the United States, this time as chairman of the Bank of Tokyo Trust Company in New York and the bank's resident senior managing director.
Mr. Yoshizawa, 57, succeeds Tamotsu Yamaguchi, who has returned to Tokyo to become deputy president of the parent.
The Bank of Tokyo, which grew along with Japan's economy, is the largest foreign bank operating in the United States, Mr. Yoshiwaza said. ''In the United States we employ 9,000 people, he said. ''That, incidentally, is much larger that the number we employ in Japan, where we have a little over 5,000.'' 
The bank, which opened its New York operation in 1955, has worldwide assets of $197 billion and 250 overseas offices.
Mr. Yoshizawa, who was born in Japan, has been with the bank since 1956, a year after he graduated cum laude from Georgetown University. In 1975, he became deputy general manager of the New York agency and a year later was named executive vice president of the Bank of Tokyo Trust Company.
He spent some time at the bank's branch in Indonesia, and since 1983 has been assigned to Japan.
In his new post, he will oversee the bank's operation in California as well as the trust company operations in New York. A decade ago, the Bank of Tokyo's California operations became California First Bank. Bank of Tokyo also recently acquired the Union Bank of California. Mr. Yoshiwaza will sit on the Union board, he said, but will not be responsible for day-to-day operations. His predecessor, Mr. Yamaguchi, was chairman of Union Bank in addition to his other roles.
Mr. Yamaguchi became known as an enthusiastic fan of American football. Mr. Yoshiwaza said he didn't share the same fervency, but ''we always support the Hoyas,'' he added, referring to his alma mater's teams.

GRAPHIC: photo of Kenji Yoshizawa

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (73%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (96%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (57%); UNION BANK NA (54%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO; BANK OF TOKYO

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES APPOINTMENTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); BANK BRANCHES (72%); SPORTS FANS (62%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%); SPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; YOSHIZAWA, KENJI; YAMAGUCHI, TAMOTSU



456 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Continues to Fall; Gold Prices Down in U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar dropped again yesterday in the aftermath of the panicky decline at the end of last week, hurt by traders' fears that central banks would sell and by the uncertain effect of an upcoming meeting of finance ministers.
Gold prices also fell after gains overseas. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $361.70 a troy ounce, down $2.20 from Friday. 
Money traders said the foreign exchange market was quieter yesterday than last Friday, a day characterized by wild rumors and price swings, but that the rout had convinced other dollar holders to sell yesterday or at least avoid the market until the currency's long-term outlook became clearer.
''The dollar bulls are hanging on the sidelines,'' said Michael Guarino, vice president and chief dealer at the New York branch of Algemene Bank Nederland N.V., the largest Dutch bank. ''The dollar bears are taking over. They have the central banks in their favor. That's going to add fuel to the fire.''
The central banks of the United States and its principal trading allies have repeatedly swooped into the foreign exchange markets recently to sell large amounts of dollars to keep the dollar from rising in value.
A more expensive dollar partly reflects confidence in the United States economy and the relatively high interest rates offered in this country, which attract foreign investors. But as the dollar's value rises, it hurts American manufacturers by making their products more expensive overseas.
 
Group of Seven Meeting
Some traders were awaiting a meeting this weekend of finance ministers from the Group of Seven nations before making dollar commitments.
''At this point I dare say I wouldn't put my neck on the line,'' said Scott Horwitz, senior foreign exchange trader at the Bank of Boston's New York branch. ''My frame of mind is one minute to one hour. I think we'll see the dollar trade in a range until we get new direction from that meeting.''
The Group of Seven members meeting in Washington consist of envoys from Britain, Canada, France, Japan, Italy, the United States and West Germany.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 146.43 Japanese yen, up 0.58 yen. Later in London the dollar was quoted at 145.85 yen. By the time trading concluded in New York the dollar fetched 145.93 yen, down from 146.35 late Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); TOKYO, JAPAN (51%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); ALGEMENE BANK NEDERLAND NV (69%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 



457 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Baker, Defending Policy, Details 'Creative' Response to Gorbachev

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d moved today to counter charges that the Bush Administration was unresponsive to opportunities presented by changes in the Soviet bloc.
With only a few hours' notice, Mr. Baker decided to hold his first press conference at the State Department since taking office eight months ago to list steps taken by Washington to engage Moscow. He also used the occasion to announce a modest proposal to advance the strategic arms talks, apparently in response to charges by Soviet officials and some critics of the Administration that those talks had become a low priority.
Mr. Baker has held many news conferences overseas and briefings in Washington before trips, but has generally let President Bush lead in articulating foreign policy at home. 
Mr. Baker was asked about a speech Monday by Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, who accused the Administration of being so ambivalent about changes in the East bloc that it seemed to be almost ''nostalgic about the cold war.'' The Secretary brushed aside Senator Mitchell's comments, indicating they were motivated by partisan politics.
''When the President of the United States is rocking along with a 70 percent approval rating on his handling of foreign policy, if I were the leader of the opposition, I might have something similar to say,'' Mr. Baker said.
The Secretary began the news conference by ticking off everything the Bush Administration had done to respond ''creatively'' to initiatives by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union. He went on to warn critics of the Administration's pace against becoming ''frantic'' and doing something ''dumb.''
He also used the occasion to announce that the United States would drop its insistence on a ban on mobile land-based nuclear missiles if Congress would appropriate money for such new weapons.
 
Proposed by Reagan
Now only the Soviet Union has mobile missiles, and arms experts said the conditional lifting of the American ban would contribute to progress in the strategic arms talks. But the move did not constitute a major breakthrough.
The ban on mobile missiles was proposed by the Reagan Administration and drew sharp criticism then from Brent Scowcroft, then a private consultant and now President Bush's national security adviser, who argued that the United States needed mobile missiles like the single-warhead Midgetman to make its forces less vulnerable to Soviet attack.
Indeed, Mr. Baker's strategic arms proposal seemed to be as much intended to advance the negotiations as to put the Soviets politically on the defensive on the eve of high-level United States-Soviet talks this week. The Bush Administration was stung by the surprise initiative of Mr. Gorbachev that involved a reduction of short-range nuclear weapons in Europe, when Mr. Baker came to Moscow last May.
The Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, arrives in Washington for talks with President Bush on Thursday, then flies to Jackson Hole, Wyo., for talks with Mr. Baker on Friday and Saturday. Mr. Shevardnadze is expected to be carrying a letter from Mr. Gorbachev that Administration officials expect - some would say ''fear'' - will offer dramatic new Soviet proposals for breaking the strategic arms logjam.
 
The Unresolved Issues
With that in mind, Administration officials appeared to be looking for a gesture to show that it is not just reacting to Mr. Gorbachev but continuing to take the initiative. The initiative they chose, however, does not address the more fundamental unresolved strategic arms issues like whether ''Star Wars'' weapons testing should be allowed, whether to limit sea-launched cruise missiles and how to count air-launched cruise missiles on bombers.
Besides the strategic arms talks, Mr. Baker said the Bush Administration and Moscow were now ''fully engaged across an increasingly broadened agenda - broadened, if I may say, so at our suggestion.''
For example, he said, by urging the Soviet Union to ''join us'' in solving regional conflicts and reducing tension the Administration was helping Mr. Gorbachev ''save the Soviets billions of dollars that we still see spent in a disappointing pattern of support for those who fuel the conflicts in Central America, Cambodia, Afghanistan, Cuba, Ethiopia and elsewhere.''
While indicating that he did not envisage any major new financial initiatives for Poland beyond those already announced by President Bush, Mr. Baker said: ''We should take a harder look at the problem,'' since ''we are now dealing with a democratic government seeking to survive, rather than a Communist government seeking to reform itself.''
He then added, though, ''I think its fair to say that we need to help them over the rough spot, but whether they succeed or not is going to depend on their willingness to effect some very fundamental economic reforms.''
In other fields of arms control, the Secretary said the Bush Administration ''could offer the Soviets some real economic savings if they respond positively'' to the conventional arms reduction proposals President Bush presented at the NATO summit last May.
Mr. Baker also said he would propose to Mr. Shevardnadze ways to break the 15-year Soviet-American impasse over verification of underground nuclear tests so the two nuclear testing treaties could be ratified.
In addition, he said, ''We have, I think, a reasonable shot at an agreement to exchange data on chemical stocks, which I think is a first practical step toward achieving real controls and eventually a total ban.''
It was clear from the Secretary of State's remarks, however, that the Bush Administration does not intend to abandon its cautious approach toward Mr. Gorbachev, and that it would not rush to engage him at a summit.
That position was also underlined by Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger, whose speech on East-West relations last week prompted some of the recent criticism that the Administration was afraid of change in the Eastern bloc. In an interview today Mr. Eagleburger said he was ''in no way nostalgic for the cold war.''
The point he was trying to make, he said, was that ''with all the hopeful reform going on in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe one has to also recognize that these processes will unleash'' some forces that could destabilize the European order that existed for the last 40 years. To point that out is not to hanker for the stability of the cold war, he said, adding that it is now incumbent upon the West to nuture this change in creative ways ''that won't create further instabilities.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Sec. of State James A. Baker 3d. (NYT/Jose R. Lopez) (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (85%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); POLITICS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (53%); 



458 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Vietnamese Leader, Assailing the West, Ignites Fear at Home

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The Vietnamese leadership has intensified a crackdown in ideological and intellectual life, warning against Western subversion in the language of the cold war.
Two recent speeches by the Communist Party General Secretary, Nguyen Van Linh, who is regarded as a reformer, profoundly disappointed and depressed some of his allies in this country's intellectual and journalistic elite.
They also raised concern among some prominent economists who have helped to draw up the changes, known here as renovation, that have begun to reduce the economic role of the state and to attract private capital and initiatives.
 
Concern Over Aid and Trade
They worry that in the absence of a comprehensive settlement in Cambodia, which the United States is now making a condition for improved relations with Vietnam, Hanoi's new defensiveness about the intentions of the West will further delay the aid and trade that it needs to salvage a rickety economy and provide jobs for a rapidly growing population. 
Vietnam's withdrawal next week from Cambodia, which it invaded in December 1978, driving out the Government led by Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge, is now believed unlikely to lead to the United States' lifting its embargo on Vietnam. The embargo forestalls signficant investment and trade from other Western countries and has caused bitterness here.
At the same time, radical changes elsewhere in the Communist world - in China, the Soviet Union, Poland and Hungary in particular - seem to have shocked the party leadership here and increased a sense of threat, insecurity and isolation.
Conservative voices that were muted during the first two years of Mr. Linh's rule, which began in December 1986, are now dominating debate only a little more than a year before Mr. Linh himself has said he will step down.
Some magazines and newspapers have been closed and some editors in chief, including To Hoa of Saigon Giai Phong, this city's most important paper, have been retired or replaced. Vu Kim Hanh, the 37-year-old editor of the newspaper Tuoi Tre, or Youth, which has written movingly of the country's social problems, is on a list of six editors to be dismissed, Vietnamese officials say privately, though for now she has retained her post.
''I tell you frankly that we writers and poets are facing great difficulties,'' said a novelist who has spoken openly before. ''We do not want to speak of political problems, and please do not mention names, for this is Vietnam.''
An official said: ''The problem now is that there is no clear ideological line. It is very easy now to cross it. Being an editor now is a very dangerous job.''
Mr. Linh spoke to senior journalists here in March, encouraging them to emphasize positive accomplishments as well as ''negative phenomena,'' and he spoke out strongly against ''pluralism'' and multiparty democracy at the end of a party meeting on March 29.
In a speech here on Aug. 24 at the end of another party meeting, devoted to ideological questions, Mr. Linh accused the West, and in particular President Bush, of intervening in the internal affairs of Communist countries and trying to undermine them. He spoke of the ''escalating'' battle between the Communist camp and a fundamentally unchanged capitalist world, ''with its very insidious schemes and tricks.''
While apparently continuing to seek Western investment and encourage private enterprise here, he spoke harshly of an increasing exploitation of workers under capitalism, and said that modern technology, by increasing productivity, was robbing the worker of his ''surplus labor value by tens of time compared with a worker in the previous century.''
He also criticized ''some deviant ideological viewpoints among a handful of cadres and party members,'' which have been breeding amid ''the impact of wrong ideological currents coming from outside.''
''This was a very clumsy speech,'' said a senior journalist here. ''It was the language of 45 years ago, and it depressed many people.''
A Vietnamese official said there had been only one vote against the speech in the Politburo, cast by Foreign Minister Nguyen Co Thach, a Linh ally who did not attend the August party meeting due to illness.
It was Mr. Thach who had pressed for the early withdrawal of Vietnamese troops from Cambodia to end Vietnam's economic and political isolation, and if the withdrawal does not produce some results, Mr. Thach's position will be jeopardized, the official said.
In a second speech Sept. 1, for Vietnam's national day on Sept. 2, Mr. Linh took up the same themes. He said Vietnam was prepared ''to broaden our external economic relations with all other countries, foreign companies and international organizations'' without political conditions, but he warned against ''the life style and decadent culture'' of the bourgeoisie and the West.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (95%); VIETNAM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (92%); HANOI, VIETNAM (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS COLD WAR (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (75%); POETRY (61%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (60%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; LINH, NGUYEN VAN POL POT (55%); 



459 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER PRICES STEADY IN AUGUST

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Consumer prices over all were unchanged in August, making it the first month in more than three years that the Consumer Price Index did not rise, the Labor Department reported today.
Economists regarded the report as somewhat encouraging because it showed that inflation was not as serious a problem as it seemed to be earlier in the year.
But they noted that a central reason why the inflation index remained steady was a large drop in energy prices, particularly a 4.2 percent fall in the price of gasoline. Fuel prices rose significantly early this year, and the lower prices in recent months are regarded as a return to a more normal level. 
 
'Core' Rate Half the July Rise
The ''core'' inflation rate, however, which excludes the categories of food and energy because of their volatility, rose by two-tenths of 1 percent last month, half the rise in July. At an annual rate, the core inflation for the last three months has risen by 3.1 percent, as against a 4.8 percent increase in the first five months of the year.
That indicates an easing of inflation, but it is not nearly so dramatic as the difference in the entire price index, which rose at an annual rate of 6.6 percent in the first five months of the year and by only 1.6 percent in the last three months.
''The bulge in inflation at the start of the year was a spike and not a trend, and this is just a reverse of what we saw then,'' said Gordon Richards, an economist at the National Association of Manufacturers.
In general, economists cautioned against drawing too much significance from the overall figure. ''Most of us believe the good news in energy is behind us, and the underlying inflation isn't coming down,'' said John Paulus, chief economist at Morgan Stanley & Company in New York.
Donald Ratajczak, director of the economic forecasting project at Georgia State University, agreed with Mr. Paulus's assessment. ''It's a plus,'' Mr. Ratajczak said of today's report, ''but I wouldn't say, 'Hey, we've solved the inflation problem.' The big picture is that the underlying inflation rate is in the 4 percent to 4.5 percent range it's been in for several years.''
Meanwhile, the Commerce Department reported today that housing construction fell 5 percent last month, the largest decrease in six months. But many analysts viewed the decline, which was attributed to a jump in mortgage rates in August, as only a temporary setback because rates have already begun to moderate.
 
Dow Drops Fractionally
The markets seemed to pay little attention to the news on inflation. The Dow Jones industrial average rose early in the day shortly after the new figures were announced but ended the day down by 0.19 point. In the bond market, the benchmark 30-year bond rose initially but then slipped by the end of the day.
The Federal Reserve has kept interest rates high for the last two years to curb the spending that has led to higher prices. But earlier this year, after evidence emerged that the economy was slowing, the central bank began easing interest rates slightly.
Today's price report from the Labor Department ''strengthens the hand'' of those pressing for lower rates, said Robert H. Chandross, chief economist in the New York office of Lloyds Bank. But he and others who watch monetary policy closely said the Federal Reserve would need much more evidence that inflation had been arrested before further action was taken.
 
Basis for Adjustments
The prevailing view of economists is that the inflation rate for the year as measured by the price index will be 5 percent or perhaps a fraction less. That would exceed the 4.4 percent rate for 1988. The annual rate is important because it is the basis for inflation adjustments in many wage contracts as well as Social Security payments and income taxes.
The index measures the cost of a fixed basket of consumer goods. Each item is weighted to reflect what urban consumers spent on that commodity in 1982-84.
The index for August was 124.6. This means that consumers had to pay $124.60 last month for goods and services that cost $100 in the 1982-84 base period.
The last month when the index did not rise was in April 1986, when it fell by three-tenths of 1 percent.
 
Relief Seen as Temporary
Energy prices fell last month largely because of an oversupply of crude oil early in the summer, but the relief is likely to be temporary, economists said. Crude oil prices have begun to rise again, and that will be probably reflected in the price of gasoline and other fuels in the months ahead.
Other than the drop in fuel prices, the main reason inflation seemed to be moderating last month was lower figures for food and apparel. Food prices, which rose sharply early in the year largely because of lingering effects of last year's drought, were up by only two-tenths of 1 percent in August.
Apparel prices altogether fell 1.7 percent, and those for women's and girls' clothes dropped by 3.6 percent. Mr. Chandross noted that a big decline was also shown in August 1988, and he said he suspected a problem existed in the way the apparel data were adjusted to account for seasonal variations.
 
Renters' Costs Down
Housing costs, which account for more than 42 percent of the entire index, rose only two-tenths of 1 percent last month, compared with six-tenths in July. Renters' costs fell four-tenths, while homeowners' costs rose by the same fraction.
The cost of services rose by three-tenths of 1 percent, while commodities fell by four-tenths. Mr. Paulus noted that the price of services had actually risen faster, at a 5.9 percent annual rate, in the last three months than they did in the first five months of year, when the rate was 5.1 percent.

GRAPHIC: graph of consumer prices from 3/89 to 8/89 (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (64%); MORGAN STANLEY (64%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR, DEPARTMENT OF (US)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); STATISTICS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TRENDS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GASOLINE (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E



460 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1629 words

HEADLINE: HURRICANE SPARES BAHAMIAN ISLANDS; HEADS FOR THE U.S.

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
The fiercest hurricane to rake the northeastern Caribbean in a decade sideswiped the Bahamas yesterday and began swirling toward the United States after damaging tens of thousands of homes and causing billions of dollars of damage.
Incomplete reports indicated that 19 people were killed by Hurricane Hugo in Puerto Rico and a string of islands along a 500-mile arc of the Caribbean. But that toll may rise as the cleanup of collapsed structures begins. 
Officials credited early warnings of the storm's approach for keeping the death toll low. ''The people on the islands respect these storms.'' said Lee Grenci, a meteorologist at Pennsylvania State University. ''When they have warnings they take them seriously. People in the United States should do likewise.'' #3 Possible Paths As many as 50,000 people were reported to have been left without homes throughout the Caribbean. Officials in Puerto Rico said the storm left 10,000 people homeless on that island, and the American Red Cross estimated that 25,000 people were staying in its emergency shelters in the eastern part of the island. The Coast Guard said a survey it had done by helicopters had found 80 percent of the roofs blown off houses between San Juan and Sajardo, 25 miles to the east. [Page B9.] And on the tiny British island of Montserrat, officials said 99 percent of the houses were destroyed, along with the island's only hospital. Pilots who flew over Montserrat yesterday reported that the once tree-covered volcanic island ''looked like it had gotten a crew cut,'' said Rolf Stefanson, the local coordinator of a United Nations relief effort.
Although forecasters offered three possible future paths for the hurricane, including one in which it would veer safely to the east and out to sea, the most likely projection was for the storm to strike somewhere from Florida to North Carolina Friday or early Saturday.
 
Bypassing the Bahamas
Yesterday, with winds decreasing to a still-dangerous 105 miles per hour, down from the winds of at least 120 m.p.h. that brought chaos and destruction to dozens of Caribbean islands, the hurricane took a northwestern course along the 700-island chain of the Bahamas, but at least 100 miles out to sea, and was expected to remain on that course for another 24 hours.
The forecasters said a variety of atmospheric factors, some as distant as Canada and the Rocky Mountains, could determine the storm's course. But the most likely impact would come from the combination of a low-pressure system moving west across southern Georgia and a broad high-pressure ridge - the ''Bermuda High'' - to the hurricane's north.
Robert Sheets, the director of the National Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla., urged residents from the Florida Keys to Cape Hatteras in North Carolina to begin preparing. ''We were just looking through a bunch of the old charts,'' Dr. Sheets said. ''They've done loop-the-loops, they've gone into south Florida, they've gone into central Florida, all the way up to the Carolinas.
''Within the next 24 to 48 hours,'' he continued, ''we can narrow the zone where the hurricane is likely to hit.''
 
Preparation at Cape Canaveral
At Cape Canaveral, space agency officials were already making preparations and said they would decide today whether the threat was serious enough to roll the space shuttle Atlantis off its launching pad and back to its giant hangar, delaying an Oct. 12 blastoff. In Miami, where emergency officials were meeting yesterday to prepare evacuation plans should the hurricane turn toward that city, hundreds of residents were inundating insurance companies with last-minute pleas for flood coverage.
And the Navy said yesterday that it had decided to start removing ships from some of its Atlantic Coast naval bases.
Starting at 8 A.M. today, 20 ships were scheduled to sail from the naval base at Charleston, S.C., into the Atlantic out of the expected path of the hurricane. Around noon, 17 ships were to leave the naval station at Mayport, Fla., including the aircraft carriers Forrestal and Saratoga.
Insurance experts, meanwhile, were already assessing the damage that Hugo wrought in Puerto Rico and the rest of the Caribbean, with preliminary losses estimated at up to $2 billion. About $1 billion in losses is expected in Puerto Rico alone. The hurricane has dealt a serious blow to the struggling economies of at least half a dozen islands that rely heavily on tourism and cash crops. And it terrified people. ''We were all huddled together in the corridor when the wind took off the roof of the house,'' said Didier Gacoby-Karoly, 14 years old, of Guadeloupe.
 
Boats Blown Out of Water
On St. Thomas, Terri Lynn Thrush, a 20-year-old American tourist, said, ''I'm scared and anxious,'' after high winds blew out windows in her hotel room. The winds were so strong in St. Thomas that sailboats were blown out of the water and thrown as far as 150 feet on shore; and some waterfront businesses simply disappeared. In Puerto Rico, 50 airplanes were reported destroyed at the airport in Isla Verde.
Many of the worst-hit islands of the northeastern Caribbean remained cut off from normal communication links yesterday, and damage reports were based on eyewitness reports, official statements and amateur radio transmissions.
The storm made a direct hit on Puerto Rico on Monday, with 120 m.p.h. winds ripping roofs off hundreds of homes, heavily damaging hotels, knocking out power, overturning cars and flooding roads. Up to 80 percent of all homes on the offshore islands of Culebra and Vieques were destroyed.
 
Huddled in Hotel Lobbies
Thousands of tourists had to ride out the storm huddled in hotel lobbies or crowded into emergency shelters. Looters stole goods from damaged stores and supermarkets, and at least 10 people were arrested, the authorities said.
After touring the 90-mile wide island, Gov. Rafael Hernandez-Colon was quoted by Puerto Rican radio stations as saying he would ask President Bush to declare the island a Federal disaster area, making it eligible for emergency aid. In the United States Virgin Islands, with a population of about 100,000, up to 80 percent of all structures on St. Thomas were damaged.
Mr. Bush, who was in Spokane, Wash., on a two-day Western trip, said the Federal government is dispatching a team to help in the rescue efforts. His spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said the Government ''stands ready to respond promptly and fully.''
A spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Phil McAde, said a C-141 loaned to the agency by the Air Force carried radio equipment and several of the agency's representatives to St. Croix yesterday. Mr. McAde said the emergency agency has 300 to 400 hundred people waiting to go to the islands.
The agency has had little contact with the Puerto Rican Government, Mr. McAde said, but its representatives in the Virgin Islands plan to meet with Governor Hernandez-Colon as soon as possible.
Radio reports from St. Croix said 300 to 500 inmates had broken out of a heavily damaged prison and had joined a wave of looting on the island.
 
Devastated Banana Crop
The British Virgin Islands were also hit hard. Power and phone service was knocked out and, on the island of Tortola, numerous injuries were reported and scores of homes destroyed. Officials on Dominica, a former British colony with a population of 74,000, reported no deaths, but said Hugo had ripped the heart out of the island's vital banana crop, its main agricultural export.
In the Commonwealth of Antigua and Barbuda, the main business area in the capital of St. John's was reported to be heavily flooded and power lines were down. Two deaths were confirmed and 15 to 30 percent of the islands' 80,000 people were said to be homeless. Extensive damage to agriculture was also reported.
On Nevis, where residents were supposed to be celebrating their independence from Britain yesterday, they were instead surveying the damage to their houses and property. A tour of the island suggested that perhaps 10 percent of the houses were destroyed, with considerably more seriously damaged. And there was extensive damage to beachfronts and the island's agriculture.
Much of the British colony of Montserrat, where 12,000 people live on 40 square miles, was leveled, United Nations officials in the Barbados said yesterday as they began a relief effort.
Officials in Montserrat said that ''at least 99 percent of the housing was destroyed,'' Mr. Stefanson said, along with most of the public buildings, including the hospital. The airport control tower in Pointe-A-Pitre, the commercial center, was among the many buildings destroyed.
And on Guadeloupe, a 700-square mile French territory consisting of seven islands, the authorities said 5 people died and up to 12,000 residents were left homeless out of a total population of about 300,000. An estimated 30 percent of Guadeloupe's roads were impassable. Military planes had already arrived with about 50 tons of emergency supplies and more than 500 relief workers.
 
Aid From the French
In Paris, the French Overseas Affairs Minister, Louis Le Pensec, said the Government would release $5.4 million in immediate help to Guadeloupe. The French Government also said it would freeze interests on loans to residents of that island.
The president of the European Commission, Jacques Delors said the commission will give about $476,000 to Guadeloupe as ''exceptional help.'' The commission handles the day-to-day operations of the European Community. The aid is far from enough to cover damages, and the French Government said it was just in the way of initial help. All 1,500 banana growers, for example, said their plantations have been totally wiped out.

GRAPHIC: hoto of damage to home in Puerto Rico done by Hurricane Hugo (AP) (pg. A1); map showing path of Hurricane Hugo (pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HURRICANE HUGO

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (96%); BAHAMAS (95%); PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MONTSERRAT (92%); BERMUDA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (56%); 

COMPANY: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (57%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (55%); AMERICAN RED CROSS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO; CARIBBEAN AREA

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); WEATHER (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); EMERGENCY SHELTERS (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (71%); HOMELESSNESS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); HELICOPTERS (66%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS



461 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Gorbachev Offers Fractious Nationalists Both Olive Branch and Stick

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 19

 BODY:
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev today laid down a policy on growing nationalist agitation in the Soviet Union that invited conciliation but drew the line firmly against the separatist hopes of the nation's restive republics.
''Talk of secession is an irresponsible game,'' he said, addressing a special meeting of the Communist Party's Central Committee, called to deal with ethnic and separatist pressures that have been interfering with Mr. Gorbachev's plans for reform. ''Those calling for it are no more than adventurists.''
In particular, he rebuffed the well-organized autonomy movements in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, which the party leadership last month condemned, warning of a ''virus of nationalism'' that could lead to civil conflict. 
 
No Rewriting of Events
''There are no grounds to question the decision by the Baltic republics to join the U.S.S.R. and the choice made by their people,'' Mr. Gorbachev said, rejecting the Baltic republics' assertion that their independence was usurped when they were incorporated into the Soviet Union in 1940.
In a long speech to about 500 party and Government leaders, the Soviet President cautioned against ''giving in to the passions and ambitions of the moment'' by repainting ethnic history with ''rosy colors.''
His Kremlin audience offered spirited applause as Mr. Gorbachev, after pleading for harmony and summarizing unrest across the nation, declared:
''I will put it straightforwardly. We will not back away from solving all problems by political methods. But where it is required by the acuteness of the situation, where a threat has arisen to the safety and lives of the people, we will act decisively, using the full force of Soviet laws.''
 
Date of Congress Advanced
In his 90-minute appearance before the full Central Committee, the party's consultative body, Mr. Gorbachev also dealt with growing internal pressures on the Communist leadership by announcing that the next party congress would be held in October 1990, five months sooner than scheduled.
In announcing the rescheduling, which had been viewed as a compromise means of dealing with increasing doubt in the party hierarchy over the stalled economy and the uncertainties of political change, Mr. Gorbachev urged faster reforms to deal with ''panicky sentiments,'' critical consumer needs and ''wider rights'' for party units in the restive republics.
''Real life and perestroika have been proceeding at such a pace that we have often lagged behind,'' the Soviet leader said, urging fresh faces and ideas for the congress. ''Much of what previously seemed correct no longer satisifies us.''
Addressing party leaders and the nation tonight via delayed TV recording, Mr. Gorbachev mixed unqualified endorsement of the supremacy of the party with qualified endorsement of autonomy for the republics.
 
A Galloping Soviet Pluralism
The common element in his remarks was the question of whether one-party rule can somehow be adapted to satisfy the multiple voices and needs now confronting the Soviet nation at an ever-more-demanding pace.
Mr. Gorbachev replied once again with a firm yes, declaring that the party instituted democratization of society and that ''it intends to stick firmly to this path.''
''The party is simply obliged to restructure its own activity on democratic principles and strengthen its ideological unity on the platform of perestroika,'' he said, declaring, without specifying how, that the Communist Party must ''confirm by deeds its right to be the vanguard of society.''
As some East European nations continued to move away from the Soviet Union toward greater political and economic independence, Mr. Gorbachev's own country remains wrenched by separatist pressures. He noted the continuing violence between Armenians and Azerbaijanis in the Caucasus.
''We can not allow anarchy,'' he said. ''even more so bloodshed.'' But he offered no immediate proposals, only warning that ''national enmity has risen to a point when further developments may have unpredictable consequences.''
 
Grievances From Many Places
The nationalist challenge to Mr. Gorbachev encompasses an array of problems - ranging from mass migrations and conflict along the nation's southern border, to Popular Front movements in critical areas like the Ukraine, to the demands for greater autonomy in Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia.
Mr. Gorbachev conceded that in the Stalin era, the Government committed ''gross violations of the Leninist principles of foreign policy.'' But he flatly rejected the Baltics' cry of usurpation, declaring: ''History cannot be rewritten to suit subjective views and political calculations, or give in to the passions and ambitions of the present.''
Emphasizing the complex economic dependence among the 15 Soviet republics, he added: ''The course of events cannot be reversed. One can go forward, only relying on historical truth and the reality of the modern world.''
The Soviet leader was not specific when he denounced ''attempts by enemies of perestroika to play ''the nationalist card.'' In discussing the Baltics, however, he talked of ''more prosperous republics'' trying to erect ''regional fences'' that would interfere with plans for a ''federal market'' designed for common prosperity.
He said the nation's new policy on nationalism, which is being debated by the Central Committee behind closed doors, should draw a distinction between peaceful demonstrations and what he termed ''extremist rallies that provoke inter-ethnic clashes and terrorize and intimidate people of other nationalities.''
 
No Secession Allowed
Mr. Gorbachev talked of giving substance to republic sovereignty through economic reform and decentralization of decision-making.
Last week, Mr. Gorbachev took a somewhat conciliatory tone in a meeting with party and government leaders from the Baltic republics, urging ''reasonable compromise,'' according to a Government account of the meeting. A summary of the meeting Wednesday with the Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian leaders said Mr. Gorbachev warned against the ''ruinous'' step of separatist Communist movements but also emphasized the need to work out differences without confrontation.
Baltic separatists have noted that the Soviet Constitution theoretically allows secession. But Mr. Gorbachev once again would not entertain such a possibility.
''To embark now on recarving the country's administrative and territorial map would mean only complicating what is already a difficult situation,'' he said.
Pointing to the tasks of the party congress, the 27th in the nation's history, the Soviet leader appeared concerned that the meeting not be an excuse for further procrastination. In the 13 months before the congress, he said, ''we should insure a turn for the better, especially concerning living standards,'' emphasizing that it is necessary to defuse tension in the nation's consumer marketplaces.
''Society is going through impetuous revolutionary change,'' he said. ''We cannot leave things as they are.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BALTIC STATES (93%); LITHUANIA (92%); LATVIA (91%); ESTONIA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); BALTIC SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; ESTONIA (USSR); LITHUANIA (USSR); LATVIAN SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLIC

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S



462 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Journal;
In a Quest For Profit, Beethoven Is Ousted

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The final anguished notes of the symphony still hung in the air as the announcer, Mary Fain, said, ''That was Tchaikovsky's 'Pathetique' Symphony, composed just a few months before his death, and played just a few hours before ours here at KFAC.''
KFAC-FM radio in Los Angeles is not dying. Indeed, its new general manager, James de Castro, sees a booming future for the station, which was recently bought by the Evergreen Media Corporation for $55 million, a price that reflects the robust health of the broadcasting industry.
What is dying is the station's classical music programming, a staple of Los Angeles's cultural life for 58 years but, all concerned agree, not much of a money earner these days for a commercial radio station. 
When KFAC switches to much more profitable rock music programming at lunch time on Wednesday, Los Angeles will be without a commercial classical music station - a sign of the times and perhaps of things to come as American cultural tastes evolve.
''We bought the station with the hope of staying classical,'' Mr. de Castro said, ''but unfortunately it was economically impossible to stay classical, because the advertising base is abandoning us.''
With Wednesday's switch to rock music, he said, ''more listeners will listen and more advertisers will buy advertising.''
''The sad fact is that the audience is not large enough to make classical music viable as a commercial enterprise,'' said Robert Goldfarb, the station's departing program director.
''I think this is part of a general trend where the arts just aren't self-sufficient anymore,'' he said. As with museums or symphony orchestras, ''classical music radio stations are not really a legitimate business that presents a reasonable return to investors.''
David Hostley, the station manager for KQED radio in San Francisco, which switched from classical to all-news programming two years ago, put it bluntly: ''The problem that is happening in the country with classical music audiences is that they are getting smaller and they are getting older.''
As a result, radio stations have abandoned classical music programming in recent years at cities around the nation, including Houston, Milwaukee and Salt Lake City.
In New York City, WNCN has been phasing in a new approach to classical music presentation since 1981, trying, in the words of Mario Mazza, the director of programming, ''to mainstream this radio station as much as possible and try to make classical music appealing to a much wider variety of people.''
Mr. Mazza's strategem is to hire pop music disc jockeys to present classical music, on the principle that ''it's easier to teach them how to say Shostakovich than to train classical people how to do contemporary radio.''
Banishing opera, organ music, the avant-garde and the atonal, WNCN is having success with what Mr. Mazza called ''lighter, peppier'' forms of classical music sprinkled with high-energy talk and comedy bits.
The fading of the classical music audience has spawned several theories, including the decline in music instruction at public schools and the deregulation of radio broadcasting, which has turned it into a more hard-nosed business.
At KUSC, the Los Angeles public radio station that will inherit much of KFAC's classical music audience, Ann Taylor, the director of public relations, blamed the pervasiveness of popular culture.
''When you have Michael Jackson selling tanker trucks full of Coke as part of the fiber of everybody's life,'' she said, ''people are more likely to have heard of Michael Jackson - and to see that he represents an important way of life - than they are to have heard of Beethoven, except that he rolled over.''
In its last days, KFAC has been broadcasting advertisements sponsored by KUSC that invite listeners to switch over after Wednesday. But the reminders that the end is near seemed to rattle Rich Capparela, a KFAC announcer, who said at one point today, ''Well, as always, an exciting time here at KFAC: we have a new weather forecast.''
Explaining his mood to his listeners, he said, ''It's that giddiness coming over the condemned just before they put the blindfold on and yell, 'Fire.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KTZ (AMEX) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541840 MEDIA REPRESENTATIVES (91%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (66%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: KATZ MEDIA GROUP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: KFAC-FM (LOS ANGELES)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

SUBJECT: RADIO; MUSIC; ROCK MUSIC CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RADIO FORMATS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%); 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH



463 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Our Sugar Protectionism Spurs Coca Growing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Orange Juice, Not Cocaine'' (Editorial Notebook, Sept. 3) observes that our protectionist policy actually protects the raw material for cocaine and proposes that we make oranges a more attractive crop to Bolivian farmers. Protectionist American farm policies have not only damaged the economies of Bolivia, Colombia and Peru, but have also helped fuel America's greatest social problem -drugs. It might be worth thinking about protectionism's human, as well as economic, consequences. 
Your suggestion of oranges as an ideal substitute for coca plants is good. I submit that there is a better one - sugar. In 1983, the United States imported more than 200,000 tons of sugar from Bolivia, Colombia and Peru. Today we import less than 85,000 tons. Because of our sugar subsidy and import quota program, these three countries have seen their sugar exports to the United States slashed. According to the Department of Commerce, Bolivia, Colombia and Peru have lost more than $100 million in revenue between 1983 and 1987 because of our sugar program.
In a Washington Monthly article two years ago, State Department officials warned the Reagan Administration that sugar farmers in tropical countries would practice an ''unfortunate style of crop diversification'' if sugar trade with the United States was cut. Diversify they did. Today, Colombia, Peru and Bolivia produce most of the cocaine coming into the United States.
On Sept. 5, President Bush announced his $8 billion solution to the drug problem, with more than $300 million for military and economic assistance to these countries. The assistance is, no doubt, needed. But it might just be beneficial if we thought about enabling these farmers to make an honest living. If we buy their sugar again, we'd give them a good start. And we'd make sugar cheaper for the American consumer.
Time, however, is running out. If we don't revamp our sugar program soon, Bolivia, Colombia and Peru (not to mention other countries that have traditionally exported sugar to the United States) could be cut out of the American market. Coca plants will be more attractive than ever. Clearly, just saying no to drugs could be a lot more effective if we said no more to the United States sugar program.
 
THOMAS J. DOWNEY
Member of Congress, 2d Dist., N.Y.
 Washington, Sept. 6, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BOLIVIA (96%); PERU (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; LATIN AMERICA

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); SUGAR; COCA (PLANT); DRUG TRAFFIC; COCAINE COCAINE (95%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); SUGAR FARMING (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SUGAR MARKETS (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); IMPORT CONTROLS (69%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (69%); 

PERSON: DOWNEY, THOMAS J (REPR) GEORGE WALKER BUSH (54%); 



464 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: OBSERVER;
The Can't-Do Guy

BYLINE: By Russell Baker

 BODY:
President Bush says nothing can be done about these massacres.
It's too bad, they are terrible, he wishes they would stop, but we may as well face it, we are just going to have to put up with them.
Thus the President when pressed to say something about the latest slaughter by gent-with-AK-47, this one in Louisville.
This is Bush at his emptiest. Mass murders by lunatics having commando fantasies are not acts of God like death by lightning storms on summer afternoons. By suggesting that they are, Bush sounds indifferent to the eerie frequency with which acts of violent madness nowadays shatter the domestic tranquillity. 
He also sounds impatient with the idea that this is a problem that ought to engage a President. There is good political reason for him to be a little impatient, of course. He has the usual politician's terror of the gun lobby, and he knows that each new AK-47 slaughter produces a transient public demand for gun-control laws loathsome to the gun people.
Fortunately for politicians, each brief public impulse for controlling automatic combat weapons now fades faster than the one before as AK-47 massacre becomes commonplace. A President can only give one longer shelf life by expressing outrage at the bloodshed.
Better to deflect the enmity of the gun lobby by taking the dispiriting line that falling victim to gent-with-AK-47 is merely to suffer one of humanity's unfortunate random fates, alas. Some are felled by lightning, some by tornadoes, some by onsets of lunatic-with-AK-47. Legislation availeth naught against acts of God.
Maybe there is, in fact, little that the Government can do now to clear the streets of automatic combat weapons. Maybe it's too late, all the lunatics and gangsters and drug soldiers already too inexhaustibly armed.
No President can say so, however; it would make him sound practical. Americans do not want practical talk from Presidents; they want Presidents promising to do the impossible. Since this is precisely the kind of talk that would incense the gun lobby, Bush can only brush off each passing slaughter as a dreadful but natural phenomenon.
''Nothing can be done'' threatens to become the Bush Administration password. This was the first response to Lech Walesa's suggestion that Washington pitch in big dollars that might give Poland's new non-Communist governing majority a chance to rebuild their down-and-out economy.
The American $50 million offer was a way of saying, ''Nothing can be done.'' In Washington $50 million is hardly considered a sum worth picking up off the sidewalk.
Pressure from Congress now has the offer up to $100 million, which is a way of saying, ''Well, maybe a little can be done, but not much.''
So far the position on international arms control isn't much different from the position on domestic AK-47 control: ''Nothing can be done.'' Nothing at least is all that has been done despite strong evidence that the Soviets are eager for the kind of cuts we have wanted for years.
There is the ''war on drugs.'' It is all trumpet and high sentence. ''Plenty will be done,'' proclaim the official noise writers.
But money? Money? Come now, what money? If there is only a trifling $100 million to help Poland achieve what we've hoped for over a whole half-century, where in the world would we get money for our resolute war on drugs? Let the states produce the money, the cities. No new taxes, of course. Read lips. No taxes. Federally speaking, nothing can be done. Except noisewise of course. But stay! What is this? Speaking of taxes, something can be done. In fact, something is being done at this very instant!
Yes, the President is keeping his campaign promise to cut the capital gains tax. Moreover, the Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee are helping him. Both parties, eternally triumphant Republicans and eternally hopeless Democrats, are doing their best to get the limousines drawn up in a circle.
Talk about snouts in the trough, how about both parties conniving in this Treasury heist? Maybe nothing can be done about AK-47 onsets, about helping Poland escape Communism, about getting an arms control deal with the Russians, but when it comes to giving the well-heeled yet another tax break, these are can-do guys.
Their reason: until the rich get another tax break for investing their money in the great engines of American enterprise, capitalism will not have the energy to make America Number One again.
If you believe that, friend, nothing can be done.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (73%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (88%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISVILLE (KY)

SUBJECT: FIREARMS; GUN CONTROL; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS FIREARMS (93%); GUN CONTROL (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LOBBYING (88%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATION (75%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BAKER, RUSSELL GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 



465 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: States Using Stiff Methods To Collect Child Support

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES

 BODY:
Using strengthened Federal and state laws, New Jersey, Connecticut and New York are tracking down parents who fail to pay court-ordered child support and collecting the money by seizing their wages, intercepting tax refunds or putting the delinquents in jail until they pay.
In New Jersey, ranked as one of the toughest states in enforcing child support, many county sheriffs have taken advantage of Federal financial aid to hire officers exclusively for such cases and have rounded up delinquents in mass sweeps and jailed some.
In one of the more dramatic sweeps, in Monmouth County, Sheriff William Lanzaro dispatched 38 officers last month to serve warrants on 66 delinquent fathers. Thirty-six of them, owing a total of $217,000, were roused from sleep, led away in handcuffs and forced to sit in the county jail until they paid part of their debt. 
''It's called pay or stay, and they pay,'' said Raymond Rainville, chief of child-support enforcement services for New Jersey courts. ''It sounds too simple, but it works.''
 
Speedier Justice Sought
Under the Federal Child Support Enforcement Amendments of 1984, states were required to strengthen their enforcement procedures to qualify for Aid to Dependent Children grants. The amendments suggested speeding hearings through the use of officials other than judges.
In New Jersey these officials are called hearing officers, and they make recommendations to a judge. In Connecticut they are called family-support magistrates, and they recently received authority to incarcerate delinquent fathers.
The Federal Family Support Act of 1988 required states to have uniform child-support guidelines for judges to consider in awarding payments. Income and number of children, for example, would be considered under the guidelines.
Last year the House Ways and Means Committee rated the enforcement programs of the 50 states, and New Jersey officials note that their state ranked No. 2. New Jersey has increased collections from delinquent parents from $183 million in 1984 to $280 million projected for this year.
Only three states besides New Jersey received A ratings from the committee: Michigan, which was ranked first, Delaware, third, and North Dakota, fourth.
A spokeswoman for the New Jersey Department of Human Services, Mary Kay Risi, said: ''New Jersey is among states that are beginning to look at child-support enforcement as a law-enforcement issue and the violation of support orders as a crime. This wasn't the case in the past. One of the states that is using arrests and raids is Massachusetts.''
 
Pressure Through Jailing
In Monmouth County, failure to make child-support payments for two weeks usually leads to a bench warrant for arrest of the parent. After the arrest, each case is handled individually, said Jan Budnik, a principal probation officer for the county. ''If their history indicates they have a pattern of nonpayment, they can be kept in jail in an attempt to make them pay,'' he said.
The probation department gives the court the history of the case, and the judge determines how much partial payment is needed to obtain release from jail, Mr. Budnik said.
Of the 36 men arrested in the Monmouth sweep, 16 managed to pay their way to freedom by the end of the day and eight more did so by the next morning. But seven remained in jail after two weeks, and the last was not released until after three weeks, 'No Civil-Rights Issue'
Edward Martone, executive director of the New Jersey branch of the American Civil Liberties Union, said: ''I don't see any civil liberties implications in these sweeps. There is no civil-rights issue, but a law-enforcement issue, in that there is reasonable suspicion that these men are in violation of legitimate court orders.''
The raids have less to do with punishing delinquent parents than to impress on them that New Jersey is serious about collecting child support, officials said. Sheriff Lanzaro, whose first raid in February netted 22 men, said, ''We find that after we conduct raids, for weeks afterward, delinquent fathers come in voluntarily and the payments escalate.''
Other New Jersey counties that have conducted sweeps are Camden, Cape May, Gloucester, Morris, Ocean and Union, and still others are preparing to do so. Marion Reitz, director of the Division of Economic Assistance of the state's Department of Human Services, said 17 of the 21 counties in the state were now being reimbursed by the Federal Government for seeking collections under warrants.
Sheriff Lanzaro, said that he was able to hire a part-time secretary and two extra officers with the reimbursements and that he planned to hire a third officer.
 
Crackdowns Are Growing
New Jersey, with some 300,000 child-support cases, does not keep figures on the number of arrests for nonpayment of child support, said Mr. Rainville, the courts official. Neither does Connecticut, with 93,000 cases, or New York, with 776,000, so comparisons are difficult.
''We have about 90 arrest warrants a month,'' Sheriff Lanzaro said. ''Of these, we arrest 60 to 70 a month, and of the 20 remaining, about 10 will come in on their own and pay up.''
Neither Connecticut nor New York use the types of sweeps employed by New Jersey, officials in those states said, but they added that they, too, had been taking a harder line on delinquents.
They pointed to upgraded state laws in conformity with Federal standards. And New York was the first and Connecticut the third state to receive Federal certification and money for a computer system that links involved agencies in each state to help track delinquents.
 
Seizure of Funds and Property
In Connecticut, which was rated sixth by the House Ways and Means Committee, child-support collections have risen steadily each year to about $70 million this year, said Anthony DiNallo, director of the Bureau of Child Enforcement in the Connecticut Department of Human Resources.
Over 50 percent of collections come from seizing wages, he said, but in the last five years the interception of tax refunds and liens on property have increased total collections from $4.6 million to $11.8 million.
New York's total collections increased from $188 million in 1984 to $310 million projected for this year. Collections from tax refund intercepts alone have risen from $11.5 million in 1984 to $53 million projected for 1989.
Last spring New York began informing delinquent parents who owed more than $1,000 that they had 90 days to pay up or their debts would be reported to credit bureaus nationwide.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (89%); 

COMPANY: MARY KAY NORDIC (52%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (96%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SHERIFFS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); PROBATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); JUDGES (78%); RANKINGS (77%); 

PERSON: JAMES, GEORGE



466 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Trail;
Giuliani Seeking D'Amato's Support

BYLINE: By FRANK LYNN

 BODY:
The D'Amato-Giuliani political minuet began yesterday and is likely to end later this week with Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato pledging his support to Rudolph W. Giuliani, whose mayoral candidacy he tried to derail by backing Ronald S. Lauder in the Republican primary.
Mr. Giuliani called the Senator in Washington yesterday afternoon asking for his support. The call was timed to immediately precede a meeting between J. Patrick Barrett, the new Republican state chairman and Mr. Giuliani's dove-bearer, and the Senator in Washington.
''It was a very cordial conversation,'' said Mr. Giuliani, who added in response to a question that it was not a difficult task. Is the Senator's support that important? 
''All the support I can get is important,'' said Mr. Giuliani. ''I'm reaching out to a lot of people.''
Mr. Barrett acknowledged that he had urged Mr. Giuliani to call the Senator, and said he had asked the Senator to support Mr. Giuliani ''on the basis of party unity.'' That's a political way of saying you don't have to love him to endorse him.
The Senator told Mr. Barrett that he would talk with Mr. Lauder, who remains on the ballot as the Conservative Party's mayoral candidate, and issue a statement by the end of the week.
 
Lauder's Options
Mr. Lauder, meanwhile, is presumably waiting on Mr. D'Amato. Mr. Lauder's aides are predicting that he will not run a major campaign on the Conservative line, since that would put him in the position of opposing not just Mr. Giuliani but, more importantly, President Bush and national Republicans backing Mr. Giuliani. Mr. Lauder, a former ambassador and at one time a Defense Department official, may want another Federal job.
He cannot get off the Conservative Party line, leaving him the options of running a token campaign or endorsing Mr. Giuliani and running no campaign at all.
 
Panel Reviews Literature
Prodded by Evan Davis, counsel to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, the State Commission on Government Integrity is examining campaign literature circulated by Assemblyman Daniel L. Feldman in the Democratic primary for Brooklyn district attorney. The literature implied that Charles J. Hynes was a bigot because he has a summer home in Breezy Point, Queens, which is virtually all white. Mr. Hynes, who swamped Mr. Feldman in the primary, lives in an integrated area of Flatbush.
Most politicians believe that Mr. Feldman's literature, which also linked Mr. Hynes with homosexual groups, backfired; the Governor cited the literature as one reason he was breaking his usual neutrality in primaries and endorsing his longtime friend, Mr. Hynes. Religious and community leaders also condemned the literature.
The results in the primary also signaled that the literature did not work. Mr. Hynes won 15 of the 19 Assembly districts in the borough, sweeping predominantly black districts by ratios of as much as 5 to 1. The Democratic nomination virtually assures his election.
A commission press aide, Linda Sachs, acknowledged the commission's interest in the literature. She noted that the panel had in the past looked into campaign literature and called for legislation requiring identification of its sponsor. The commission has power only to make recommendations to the Legislature.
 
Cosby's Lasso
David N. Dinkins posted another first on Monday evening - a major fund-raiser at the Apollo Theater in Harlem. Almost all such events are held in midtown hotels. A mixed audience of about 1,400 people contributed $25 to $1,000 each for a total of at least $200,000 to help finance the Dinkins campaign and hear the comedian Bill Cosby.
Mr. Cosby came up with a humorous version of the show business hook for getting windy politicians off stage. As Mr. Dinkins spoke before the stage curtain, he was interrupted by a disembodied Cosby voice from behind the curtain: ''I'm getting very old back here.'' Mr. Dinkins got the message.
 
Message From Albany
State Comptroller Edward V. Regan, not known for his political boldness, had some unsolicited fiscal advice for Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Dinkins yesterday while praising Mayor Edward I. Koch for his fiscal restraints.
Like a father lecturing his offspring on fiscal prudence, Mr. Regan wrote identical letters to both candidates warning them of hard times ahead. Mr. Regan, a Republican who may face a stiff challenge for re-election next year because of investigations of his fund-raising practices, wrote that the city faced budget gaps of $1.3 billion to more than $2 billion during the next mayoral term.
He pointed out that city residents already pay the highest state and municipal taxes in the country and that any more taxes in the city would ''impair its economic development.''
In short, watch those promises of pie in the sky, candidates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; BROOKLYN (NYC)

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS; DISTRICT ATTORNEYS; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; PRIMARIES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (62%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: LYNN, FRANK; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); LAUDER, RONALD; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); HYNES, CHARLES J; FELDMAN, DANIEL L (ASSEMBLYMAN); REGAN, EDWARD V (COMPTROLLER) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); 



467 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Methanol Defended as Option

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency responded today to oil and auto industry criticism of an important part of President Bush's clean air legislation by defending methanol as both an economically and environmentally sound fuel alternative to gasoline.
The agency said in a report that methanol prices would be competitive with gasoline at the pump, would not leave the nation more dependent on unreliable sources of imported energy and would reduce harmful auto emissions far more than any other pollution control program. The report also played down safety hazards associated with methanol, saying that all combustible fuels have risks. Methanol comes from various sources, including natural gas and coal, and is now used as a blending agent in gasoline. 
Also today, the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health and the Environment began debating the Administration's clean air plan, and in its first vote narrowly rejected, 12 to 10, a compromise measure offered by its chairman, Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California.
The Environmental Protection Agency's defense of methanol comes as the oil industry is mounting a public relations campaign against the alternative fuels provision in the President's proposed revisions of the Clean Air Act of 1970. Under the plan, one million vehicles powered by cleaner-burning alternative fuels would be introduced each year into the nation's nine most polluted cities after 1997.
 
Regulating Car Travel Rejected
The Administration asserts that expanding the use of alternative fuels, including methanol, is the only realistic way to reduce auto emissions significantly. Tighter auto pollution standards may be too expensive, while regulating the amount of car travel is not feasible, the White House says.
The oil industry supports studying the wider use of alternative fuels. But it contends that too little is known about the environmental effects of fuels like methanol to introduce them as widely as the President proposes. In addition, the industry says the Environmental Protection Agency has dramatically understated the eventual cost of methanol to the consumer.
There is ''no evidence'' methanol can be sold as cheaply as gasoline, Michael Canes, chief economist at the American Petroleum Institute, said today.
The oil industry has acknowledged that methanol produces less hydrocarbons, which contribute to smog. But its said methanol also generates more formaldehyde.
In its report today, the Environmental Protection Agency said more study is needed to determine the health effects of formaldehyde.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CLEAN AIR ACT

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (94%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; METHANOL; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LAW AND LEGISLATION AIR QUALITY REGULATION (94%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); SMOG (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); ALDEHYDES (60%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); WAXMAN, HENRY A (REPR); GOLD, ALLAN R GEORGE W BUSH (90%); HENRY WAXMAN (73%); 



468 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Budget Roundup;
Senate Votes to Increase Limit On Mortgages Insured by U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The Senate approved a measure tonight to raise the ceiling on mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration, making them more available to home buyers in high-cost areas.
The measure had set off sharp debate on the Senate floor, where opponents argued that the housing administration is already financially burdened and does not need additional risks. After several challenges to the original measure that would have eliminated the ceiling on insured mortgages, the Senate approved a compromise by voice vote.
Under current law, F.H.A.-insured mortgages can be obtained for amounts up to 95 percent of the median price of a house in an area. But there is also a flat dollar cap: a maximum of $101,250 in the highest cost areas. The measure approved tonight would raise that cap to $124,875. 
F.H.A.-insured mortgages can carry a number of benefits for home buyers, including lower down-payments and lower interest rates.
''My constituents are in need of this legislation,'' said Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, who argued on behalf of the original measure.
But those who opposed eliminating the cap asserted the measure benefited the wealthy and was an additional burden for the agency. ''If there ever was a fat-cat provision, this is it,'' said Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina.
The Bush Administration also expressed strong opposition, citing ''dramatic increases'' in defaults in recent years.
Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, tried to amend the legislation to replace the cap at a level of $118,000, but the Senate voted 50 to 49 to table his amendmement. Mr. Nickles and other opponents of the bill urged the Senate to delay action until the completion this fall of a report on the health of the F.H.A. by the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress.
Ultimately, however, the $124,875 ceiling was approved.
An Administration spokeswoman said, ''We generally supported the compromise although we still feel it's premature to make any recommendation about the F.H.A. until we've completed an actuarial review.''
The housing provision is part of a $67.2 billion spending bill for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Veterans Administration and other agencies. Like other spending bills, the measure is stalled in the Senate because of the struggle over financing President Bush's drug strategy.
 
Automatic Cuts Loom
House Republican leaders warned today that the deficit reduction package, which Congress has to pass by Oct. 16, had become so laden with contentious measures unrelated to the budget that there was a serious danger the measure would not be approved by the deadline.
If Congress fails to meet that deadline, the 1987 deficit reduction law imposes an automatic, across-the-board spending cut that would take an estimated $8 billion out of military programs and another $8 billion from a variety of such popular domestic programs as education, subsidized housing, space, veterans affairs and environmental protection.
''We now have a real danger of sequestration,'' said Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the House Republican whip, using the formal name for the automatic spending cut procedure. ''There is a real danger that we end up with a complicated bill in the House, which then has to go to the Senate, and at just that time, the Senate has scheduled a weeklong recess.''
Among the measures now attached to the deficit-reduction package are proposals for increasing Federal assistance for child care services, modifications for the health insurance law to cover the catastrophic costs of illness. The deficit reduction package also includes the cut in capital gains taxes approved by the House Ways and Means Committee last week.
 
Rostenkowski Is Blamed
Ronald H. Brown, the Democratic national chairman, reasserted the party's opposition to a cut in the capital gains tax today, describing it as an issue that ''we ought to have a line drawn in the sand about.'' He also laid some fault for its approval by the House Ways and Means Committee at the feet of the powerful committee chairman, Dan Rostenkowski, an Illinois Democrat.
''He has to bear some of the responsibility,'' Mr. Brown said at a breakfast meeting with reporters. ''On this issue, there'll probably be a lot of finger-pointing going on. There already has been.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS; FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION (FHA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; CAPITAL GAINS TAX MORTGAGE INSURANCE (92%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (84%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TAX LAW (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); VETERANS (50%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: BROWN, RONALD H (CHMN); TONER, ROBIN; ROSTENKOWSKI, DAN (REPR) GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



469 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Storm Cut Across the Economic Lines

BYLINE: By JEFFREY SCHMALZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R. Sept. 19

 BODY:
The two extremes of San Juan's social spectrum - the shantytowns of the poor and the oceanfront condominiums of the wealthy - appeared to suffer the most from the hurricane that swept across Puerto Rico on Monday.
Most of the roofs were missing in an oceanside cluster of shanties at the base of a steep hill in Old San Juan. Wet mattresses lay on the beach, and in some cases, whole houses were blown hollow.
''I have no clothes, no furniture,'' Ivette Riverso, the mother of two children, aged 2 and 4, said as she stood in what had been her house. ''My children! I don't know what we'll do.'' 
Across town on Condado Beach, an enclave of expensive hotels and apartments and stores that is to San Juan what Fifth Avenue is to New York, damage was among the most extensive in the city.
Whole apartments and shops were blown out. High-rise hotels in Condado and high-rise office buildings in Hato Rey, the financial center, look like checkerboards, with some windows blown out and others intact. In some sections, store owners reported looting.
''The neighbors said they saw the kids hiding and waiting for the storm to get bad so they could break in,'' said Adone Crudeli, who owns a shop on chic Ashford Avenue in Condado. ''But they're not going to do me in. I spent 20 years as a bridge painter in New York; I know how to survive.''
 
No Water or Electricity
In other ways the storm affected nearly all of Puerto Rico's 3.3 million residents. Much of island, for instance, was without water or electricity today.
Some fire hydrants were labeled as sources of drinking water, but the water that came out was brown. Officials broadcast warnings that all water was to be boiled before drinking. While insults about not bathing were the running joke in Puerto Rico, today's joke will soon become a crisis, because it was not clear when or how water would be restored.
''What am I supposed to do with three small kids?'' Carlos Lopez, 38 years old, asked a police officer in Old San Juan. ''What are they going to drink? How long do you think we can go?''
Officials said it would take at least three days to restore electricity. Bright white-and-red tape marked downed wires to make them easier for repair workers to spot. Stores, offices and schools remained closed. Some Areas Unscarred A few neighborhoods of San Juan, a city of 945,000 people that is Puerto Rico's capital, were virtually untouched. But in most, windows of houses, businesses and cars were shattered. In some sections, furniture dangled from floors where walls had been blown away.
Over all, officials said 10,000 people were left homeless, and they estimated damage at hundreds of millions of dollars.
The American Red Cross estimated that 25,000 people were staying in its emergency shelters in the eastern part of the island.
The island's Agriculture Department reported that in the area around Utuado, 80 percent of Puerto Rico's coffee crop was destroyed. In addition, virtually the entire ornamental-plant industry, poinsettias and orchids, for example, was lost.
The Puerto Rican Government appealed to President Bush today for disaster assistance that would provide direct aid to the homeless and loans to businesses.
Many major highways in San Juan were cleared of debris over night with the help of 1,500 National Guardsmen, but many side streets here as well as main roads in the countryside remain blocked by trees, abandoned cars or shards of glass. Many palm trees have lost all their fronds, looking like giant dandelions that had had their white heads blown off.
 
Fishing Villages Damaged
Coast Guard and civilian defense officials said some of the worst damage was on two islands just off Puerto Rico, Vieques and Culebra. They also said some fishing villages on the central and southeastern coast, like Maunabo, had been severely damaged.
Rescuers had not yet able to reach many remote areas, because of roads blocked by water and debris. The Coast Guard said a medical team that arrived on Vieques found that no residents had been killed in the storm but some had been injured. It said virtually all wooden structures have been knocked down.
In Humacao, civil defense officials said, the third, fourth, fifth and sixth floors of the hospital had been destroyed. But no one was injured because the floors had been evacuated.
Still rattled by the hurricane and finding themselves in hotels without electricity and water, tourists clambered to leave Puerto Rico. But officials at the airport here, which suffered damage to its control devices, said it was unlikely to reopen until at least Thursday.
Over all, officials said there had been four deaths in Puerto Rico, the same figures they gave on Monday. Two of the deaths were sailors aboard a research vessel that sank in San Juan Harbor. They said the low number of deaths and apparently low number of injuries was because unlike some tourists in San Juan, residents of rural areas had taken the hurricane warnings very seriously.
''We're not hearing of fatalities or large groups of injuries,'' said Lieut.
Dan Whiting of the Coast Guard. ''I think people were prepared. But we still don't know the full extent of this yet. If they're out there, we may just be starting to hear what's really happened.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of an aerial view of Ceiba, P.R. showing damaged houses (AP); map of Puerto Rico (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HURRICANE HUGO

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN JUAN, PUERTO RICO (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO; SAN JUAN (PUERTO RICO)

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL); WATER RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); WEATHER (77%); BEACHES (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); PAINT & WALLPAPER CONTRACTORS (50%); 

PERSON: SCHMALZ, JEFFREY



470 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 17, Column 3; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Review/Opera;
Brecht-Weill 'Mahagonny,' Set in 20's Hollywood

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 18

 BODY:
The Los Angeles Music Center Opera, which in its first three seasons has brought home-grown, big-time opera to this city for the first time, has a penchant for splashy, flashy productions. The opening pair of fall operas consists of a ''Tosca'' with Maria Ewing, conducted by Placido Domingo, and a new staging of the Brecht-Weill ''Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny'' directed by Dr. Jonathan Miller, designed by Robert Israel and conducted by Kent Nagano.
For the ''Mahagonny,'' Dr. Miller and the company apparently raised a few hackles by announcing that the setting would be Hollywood in the 1920's and that the ''dated'' aspects of the original would be modified. In fact, the Hollywood references were fairly subtle and altogether appropriate, given Brecht's fascination with things mythically American. And while one missed the grim procession of Communist protest signs at the end, as in the Metropolitan Opera's version, the bitterness and anachronisms, if you choose to call them that, of the original conception were left pretty much intact. 
That's not to say that the performance, seen Sunday afternoon, didn't have its flaws. Chief among them was Michael Feingold's English translation. The kindest thing to be said about it is that Mr. Feingold was perhaps attempting to echo Brecht's own pidgin English. But the recurrent awkward slang, curious constructions (''I've eaten two calves head to crupper'') and clumsy prosody, most of it mirrored redundantly in the supertitles, provoked persistent and inadvertent laughter.
Other problems included some of Mr. Nagano's tempos and a curious blankness to Dr. Miller's staging. This operatic inflation of the original ''Mahagonny Songspiel'' (seen last spring at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in a Peter Sellars production) fluctuates between cabaret-style spunkiness and grander proclamations. Sometimes, in emphasizing the operatic, Mr. Nagano sounded so slow and grave that the action almost ground to a halt. But elsewhere he was livelier, and achieved a nice grim climax at the end.
The hints of Hollywood came mostly in Mr. Israel's handsome if often cluttered sets, with their intimations of a back lot. But the ''concept'' wasn't rammed home to the point of crudeness. Still, except for a graphic flair in the calf-eating scene (here Dr. Miller's anatomical expertise came in handy), the direction seemed more stiff and dispassionate than involved, which didn't help much with an already formalistic opera.
That said, much of the individual acting was affecting within Brecht's constrained emotional terms, the singing (apart from the unfortunate absence of true low basses among the soloists) was solid, and the playing of the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra was accomplished.
Of the singers, the best was Gary Bachlund as Jimmy - a handsome presence and a real heroic tenor. Anna Steiger, outfitted by Mr. Israel to look like the ingenue Lillian Gish, made a sweet if not very charismatic Jenny, and Marvellee Cariaga, despite an awkward register break, flounced about imperiously as Leocadia Begbick. Other parts were taken by, among others, Michael Gallup, Jonathan Mack and Louis Lebherz.
This production will be seen subsequently at the Kentucky Opera and, most likely, the Geneva Opera and the Lyons Opera, where Mr. Nagano is music director.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RISE AND FALL OF THE CITY OF MAHAGONNY (OPERA)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES MUSIC CENTER OPERA

SUBJECT: OPERA; REVIEWS OPERA (91%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN WOLFE 'JONATHAN' MILLER (71%); PLACIDO DOMINGO (58%); MARIA LOUISE EWING (58%); 



471 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
Consumer prices were unchanged in August, the first time in more than three years that the Consumer Price Index did not rise, the Labor Department reported. Economists regarded the report as somewhat encouraging because it showed that inflation was not as serious a problem as it seemed earlier in the year. [Page A1.] Consumer prices in the New York area rose by two-tenths of 1 percent, with higher prices for apparel, housing, food and beverages said to account for much of the rise. [D5.] 
Housing construction fell by 5 percent in August, depressed by a jump in mortgage rates, the Government reported. [D1.]
The E.P.A. defended methanol as both an economically and environmentally sound alternative to gasoline. The agency was responding to industry criticism of the Bush clean-air plan. [B6.]
 
 
 
Companies
Campeau said it had reached agreement for a $250 million loan that will help ease a cash crunch at its nine department store divisions in the U.S. The agreement will also greatly reduce the power of Robert Campeau, its chairman and founder. [D1.]
Apple will introduce its long-awaited portable Macintosh and a new high-end desktop machine known as the Macintosh IIci. [D1.] I.B.M. introduced a broad range of software-development tools, filling in a final piece of its vision of computing in the 1990's. [D4.]
The Administration has serious questions about foreign stakes in U.S. airlines, Transportation Secretary Skinner said. [D2.]
Avon Products reduced its 1989 earnings projections because of weakening sales and a strong dollar. [D4.]
 
International
Ford said it had begun buying shares of Jaguar, firing the first shot in what analysts expect to erupt into a bidding war for the troubled British manufacturer of luxury cars. [D1.]
Angola joined the I.M.F. and the World Bank, despite objections by the U.S., which had cast the only vote against membership. [D6.]
Alan Bond will sell half his brewing operations to Lion Nathan of New Zealand in a multibillion-dollar deal. [D4.]
 
 
 
Markets
Stocks ended narrowly mixed on moderately higher volume. The Dow finished 0.19 lower, at 2,687.31. [D8.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds were little changed in sluggish trading, despite better-than-expected economic reports. [D14.] Trading in ''junk bonds'' rebounded sharply. [D14.]
Soybeans for spot delivery fell to a 22-month low, and energy futures were sharply lower. [D15.]
The dollar was mixed in nervous worldwide trading amid reports that the Fed had intervened to keep the currency down. [D15.]
Yields for C.D.'s and money market accounts were down for the week at banks and savings institutions. [D6.]
 
Technology
Computer chips are overheating as they are crammed into ever-smaller spaces for the newest supercomputers. Cray's solution: immerse them in a bath of nonconductive liquid. [D7.]
A bacterial process can reduce PCB's in rivers and lakes by more than 70 percent in four to eight weeks, scientists say. [D7.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
For 27 years, Ally & Gargano has helped corporate underdogs become household names. Now the agency appears to be triumphing over its own demons. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D1.]
The U.S. is making it difficult for Colombians to profit from exports of coffee and flowers even as it cheers the brave effort to stamp out cocaine exports. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Merv Griffin proposed to revamp Resorts International, leaving bondholders with substantial losses but holding a 25 percent equity stake in the troubled casino company. Market Place. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AVP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (52%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AVON PRODUCTS INC (54%); LION PTY LTD (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); FUTURES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); CHEMICALS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); ALCOHOLS (73%); DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); CURRENCIES (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); COMPUTER CHIPS (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (61%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (60%); MORTGAGE RATES (55%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); AIR QUALITY (54%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (51%); 

PERSON: ROBERT JOSEPH CAMPEAU (55%); 



472 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: Campeau Wraps Up Loan Pact

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
Resolving a weeklong financial crisis, the Campeau Corporation said yesterday in Toronto that it had reached a definitive agreement for a $250 million loan that would help ease a cash shortage at its nine department store divisions in the United States.
The agreement will also significantly reduce the power of Robert Campeau, the dynamic chairman and founder of the Toronto-based development and retail company who borrowed heavily to take over the United States stores. And it will increase the power of the Reichmann family, owners of Olympia & York Developments, another large Canadian developer that already owns 24.5 percent of Campeau and is providing the loan.
The loan will provide working capital for the Bloomingdale's, Abraham & Straus and Stern's stores on the Eastern Seaboard, among others around the country, where fears had risen that suppliers' reluctance to deliver goods would affect business for the fall and Christmas seasons.
 
Release of Supplies Expected
However, various executives said yesterday that the loan agreement, as well as new proposed ''bridge'' financing, would quickly release withheld supplies. 
Two weeks ago, Campeau put its 17-store Bloomingdale's chain up for sale to raise funds for repayment of its debts. The amount of debt, largely in the form of ''junk bonds,'' that Mr. Campeau took on to finance his retailing purchases, has been blamed for his current troubles, and the junk bond market was roiled last week by the news of the cash problems. Yesterday, however, word that the corporation had reached an agreement with creditors contributed to a rally in the junk-bond market, participants said. [Page D14.] 250 Department Stores Involved Campeau announced that as part of the agreement, Mr. Campeau would voluntarily step down as chief executive of the company's American arm and be succeeded by an as-yet-unnamed individual. That person, and a new chief financial officer to be selected, will have the primary responsibility of supervising Campeau's 250 cash-poor American department stores and restructuring them to obtain maximum shareholder value.
Mr. Campeau will retain his title as chairman and chief executive of the parent company but will concentrate his efforts on the real estate business.
The agreement and accompanying changes announced by Campeau came after several days of marathon negotiations in Toronto between it and Olympia & York, Citibank, the Scotia Bank and other lenders.
The cash infusion to Campeau by Olympia & York will keep Campeau solvent and allow it to restructure its own financial affairs and those of its two American retail subsidiaries, Federated Department Stores and Allied Stores. Campeau's crisis began a week ago when it reported that those subsidiaries had insufficient cash for operations and were unable to meet debts coming due last week.
The changes announced yesterday, including a projected increased stake of about 10 percent for Olympia & York in Campeau as a result of its loan, signify a sharply expanded role for the Reichmann brothers, Paul and Albert, whose family owns that company. Olympia & York and Campeau will each have three representatives on a newly appointed 10-member board of Campeau, along with four others representing minority and public shareholders.
The company also announced that a new restructuring committee would be set up to increase shareholder value from existing assets. It will be headed by Lionel G. Dodd, chief operating officer of Olympia & York Enterprises. Mr. Dodd was a member of the previous Campeau board and will be on the new one.
However, in a telephone interview yesterday afternoon from Toronto, Mr. Campeau insisted that both his group and Olympia & York's would be running the company ''50-50'' on the basis of the similar number of seats on the new Campeau board. ''I am delighted that we have decided to bring Olympia & York more prominently into the picture,'' Mr. Campeau said. ''And the loan wil bring about the needed liquidity and enable us to preserve our company.''
 
No Comment From Reichmanns
Neither of the Reichmann brothers could be reached to comment.
Campeau said that the restructuring committee intended to hire Merrill Lynch to assist in the financial restructuring plan and to name McKinsey & Company as retailing consultant. In addition to naming Mr. Dodd chairman, the four-member restructuring committee includes Robert J. Butler, former president of Eaton's department stores in Canada and a director of various companies; G. William Miller, a previous Campeau director and former United States Treasury Secretary, and Ronald E. Tysoe, Campeau president.
The new board consists of three Campeau representatives, Mr. Campeau, Mr. Tysoe and Byron Allumbaugh, the chairman of Ralph's Grocery Company, a supermarket chain in California that Campeau also owns. The three Olympia & York representatives are Mr. Dodd; Albert Reichmann, president of Olympia & York, and Gilbert Newman, an Olympia & York executive. The four representatives of minority shareholders are Mr. Butler; Mr. Miller; Robert Despres, president of DRM Holdings, Quebec, and Conrad Black, principal shareholder in Hollinger Inc., a Canadian communications company.
Reports that pressure was brought to bear on Mr. Campeau to downgrade his role emerged during negotiations between Campeau and Olympia & York and other lenders, such as Citibank. Both Citibank and Olympia & York were said to have insisted on a new chief executive and chief financial officer for the American stores. In addition, the new restructuring committee, while it will report to the directors, will have considerable authority to develop its strategy independent of Mr. Campeau, financial sources in Toronto said.
Mr. Campeau said that he would now concentrate on real estate, where ''my background shows that I have always had a conservative approach to financing.'' In previous interviews, he had said that ''real estate is really my true love.''
 
'Junk Bond Fever' Cited
He said that he had followed that policy in 1986 when he bought Allied Stores, his first American retail acquisition, issuing bonds to pay 10 1/2 percent. But he said that he had got swept up in the ''junk bond fever'' when he acquired Federated Department Stores in May of last year, agreeing to pay 16 1/2 percent on the bonds.
The firm agreement with Olympia & York will loosen up withheld shipments from suppliers who began last Thursday to curtail their deliveries as the cash shortage developed at the Federated/Allied stores, according to Kurt Barnard, publisher of the Barnard Retail Marketing Newsletter.
Already yesterday, the Leslie Fay Company, an apparel maker that had suspended shipments last week to the Campeau stores, began resuming deliveries, said Alan Golub, president of the company's dress division.
Walter F. Loeb, senior analyst for Morgan Stanley & Company in New York, said, ''Not only will the agreement restore credibility for the Campeau stores, but it will also tend to remove the threat of heavy markdowns for those stores, and probably others, because it will stabilize sales.''
Under the loan agreement, funds up to $150 million will be furnished to Federated Department Stores, which operates Bloomingdale's, A.&S., Stern's and other stores, and $100 million to Allied Stores, which operates the Bon Marche in Seattle, Jordan Marsh in Miami and Boston and Maas Brothers in Tampa.
 
Olympia & York Gets Warrants
For the loan, Olympia & York will receive warrants entitling it to purchase common shares of Campeau. Up to 15,625,000 such shares may be purchased at a price of $16 (U.S.) per share at any time up until Sept. 18, 1991. And Olympia & York has the right to apply the proceeds from the $250 million loan to the purchase of those shares.
Olympia & York will be able to increase its current 24.5 percent stake to about 35 percent, while Mr. Campeau's holdings will drop to about 46 percent, from 56 percent.
In another move analysts considered significant, Olympia & York agreed to use its ''reasonable best efforts,'' Campeau said, to arrange bridge financing for Campeau of about $800 million. The financing is intended to help the company until it sells Bloomingdale's.
The bridge loan is also conditioned on Campeau's repurchase of 75 percent of its outstanding debt issued by Allied and Federated at prices not above those of last Friday. Olympia & York has also committed to provide a portion of the bridge financing if necessary, Campeau said.
 
New Terms on Debt
In other agreements reported by Campeau, Federated received new terms on some of its debt. Federated defaulted last Friday on $401.3 million in notes held by three investment banks, which thereby obtained 6.96 percent of Federated stock. But Federated has the right to redeem the notes next year and receive the stock.
Some doubts persisted, however, that Campeau's financing problems were over. George Hartman, an analyst for Brown Baldwin Nixer in Toronto, said: ''They have bought themselves some extra time through Christmas. From what I can tell from the details of the loan and the warrants, the Reichmanns may feel that the company has lots of breakup value.''
In the interview, Mr. Campeau denied widespread belief yesterday that the appointment of a restructuring committee meant the company would sell more of its stores.
''The restructuring is necessary, but we plan to sell no other stores,'' he said. ''The Bloomingdale's sale and the bridge loan are sufficient to do the restructuring.''
This, however, contradicts strong reports this week that Campeau directly or through its investment adviser, the First Boston Corporation, had been negotiating to sell its 39 Bon Marche stores on the West Coast to a Japanese company but that the deal fell through.
''All our sources indicate that whatever can be sold at Federated/Allied will be sold, but some of them can't be easily financed because of insufficient cash flow,'' said Edwin J. Berkowitz, division president at Wesley, Brown & Bartle.
Janet Mangano, research director at Josephthal & Company in New York, said, ''I see more asset sales, even though there will be greater access to capital markets now'' where the company can borrow to help raise cash for its operations.
 
Campeau's Department Stores 

	Number		of stores	Abraham & Straus	14	Bloomingdale's	17	The Bon Marche	39	Burdines	30	Jordan Marsh	26	Lazarus	43	Maas Brothers	38	Rich's/Goldsmith's	26	Stern's	24	
 
Source: Company report

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (73%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (73%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (91%); MACY'S INC (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMPEAU CORP; REICHMANN FAMILY; OLYMPIA & YORK DEVELOPMENTS LTD

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; CREDIT BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BONDS (87%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); BOND MARKETS (70%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (70%); WORKING CAPITAL (69%); CHRISTMAS (53%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE; CAMPEAU, ROBERT ROBERT JOSEPH CAMPEAU (93%); 



473 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: August Home Construction Dropped 5%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Housing construction, depressed by a jump in mortgage rates, fell by 5 percent in August, the Government said today in a report many analysts viewed as only a temporary setback for the housing industry.
The Commerce Department said new homes and apartments were built at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.35 million units last month, down from 1.42 million in July.
It was the first decline since May and the largest setback since a 12.7 percent fall last February. Housing starts had risen 1.3 percent in July and 7.5 percent in June. 
 
Rates Now at 10.05 Percent
Fixed mortgage rates, which peaked at 11.22 percent in March, had fallen to 9.68 percent by Aug. 4, but then rose by about half a percentage point through August. However, in recent weeks they have begun edging down slightly, now standing at 10.05 percent, according to the weekly survey by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation.
Economists predicted continued small declines for the rest of the year and said this should bolster sales and construction figures.
''The housing starts numbers show builders were waiting out the recent uptick in interest rates'' in August, said John Tuccillo, chief economist of the National Association of Realtors. ''However, the higher rate of building permits is a good sign that the stalled activity in August is only temporary.''
Overall applications for building permits, considered a good barometer of future activity, rose by 3.5 percent after falling by 2.1 percent in July.
David Seiders, chief economist of the National Association of Home Builders, said the drop in construction and another report today showing that consumer prices did not rise in August should persuade the Federal Reserve to stop fighting inflation and resume lowering interest rates to bolster the economy.
However, other economists said they doubted that the weak construction number would prompt action on the part of the Fed, given the fact that other statistics showed that the economy was continuing to grow at a healthy rate.
 
Starts Rebounded in June
Construction starts fell earlier this year for four straight months before rebounding in June, the longest string of declines since activity slowed for five months in a row from February through June 1987. The May level of 1.31 million starts was the slowest pace since the 1.30 million rate in December 1982.
Total housing starts during the first eight months of the year are down 4.7 percent from the corresponding period of 1988.
Construction of single-family homes last month fell 2.5 percent, to an annual rate of one million units. Single-family starts had risen 5.9 percent in July after falling five-tenths of 1 percent in June.
Apartment construction fell 11.4 percent in August, to an annual rate of 350,000 units. It fell by 9 percent in July after rising 31.1 percent in June.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing the amount of new private housing started and permits authorized from March '88-Aug. '89 (source: Commerce Dept.) (NYT) (pg. D5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS CONSTRUCTION (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (79%); BUILDING PERMITS (79%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); 



474 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Fighting Cocaine, Coffee, Flowers

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
EVEN as President Bush cheers Colombia's brave effort to stamp out exports of cocaine, others in the Administration are making it more difficult for Colombians to profit from exports of coffee and cut flowers.
Colombian farmers, driven from these legal markets, are not likely to turn to cultivating coca. Indeed, they could not: the soil and weather conditions in coffee and flower-growing regions are not right for coca.
But these two crops are crucial sources of export earnings for Colombia. It seems an inopportune moment to make life more difficult for the nation's legitimate farmers and deprive the struggling nation of foreign exchange. 
Colombia does not grow much of the raw material used to make cocaine; it imports most of it from Peru and Bolivia. But the Medellin cartel controls most of the world's cocaine-manufacturing capacity.
Much of the estimated $1.5 billion earned from cocaine is invested abroad and never finds its way back to Colombia, points out Peter Reuter, an economist at the Rand Corporation. But enough certainly does to provide work for tens of thousands in the city of Medellin, and to provide hundreds of millions of dollars to offset the country's bills for imports and foreign debt.
Thus if current attempts to disrupt the cocaine trade are successful, Colombia, with a per capita income just one-fifteenth that of the United States, will be even harder pressed to met basic human needs. That is why American positions on coffee and flowers can make a significant difference.
Colombia and the United States are both members of the International Coffee Agreement, a 74-nation group of producers and consumers that regulates coffee prices by regulating total exports. According to Takamasa Akiyama, an economist at the World Bank, the group has successfully stabilized prices in recent years, But in July the agreement collapsed when the organization refused to meet American demands. There was some reason for the demands, but rather than negotiate further, the United States pulled out.
The United States delegation wanted an increase in export quotas for higher-quality arabica coffees, which Americans consume in disproportionate quantities. And it wanted tougher policing of exporters that cheat on the quotas: Mexico, Guatemala and Indonesia have reportedly been secretly selling their surpluses to Eastern bloc countries at half the price they charge the United States.
But the demands were bitterly opposed by Brazil, the largest coffee producer. And the Bush Administration has chosen to play hard ball, brushing aside pleas from President Virgilio Barco of Colombia for a one-year extension of the current terms. Prices have fallen by one-third, reducing Colombia's expected earnings this year by $400 million.
American moves to block Colombian exports of cut flowers are probably less damaging - but also harder to defend in economic terms.
Colombia is the South Korea of flower exporters, having doubled foreign sales to $200 million in the last decade by producing efficiently and pioneering distribution through supermarkets. American flower growers have not directly suffered because total American demand is up sharply. But the Colombians have grabbed most of the growth in the market. And the American industry is fighting back, charging the Colombians with illegal dumping.
Dumping, or selling below cost in some export markets, seems implausible on its face: Virtually all Colombian flowers are sold in a single market, America. If many of Colombia's 200 private flower exporters are not making money, it is hard to understand why they keep expanding production.
But American trade law gives the Commerce Department broad discretion in defining and measuring dumping. And, stung by accusations during the Reagan years that it blindly favored free trade, the department has been bending over backwards to find ways to support the home team.
Flower importers, who have been paying counter-dumping fees of 4.4 percent since 1987 as a hedge against an adverse final ruling in the case, now fear that the department will force them to pay tens of millions in duties on flowers that were sold over the last year. Were that to happen, the distribution network would probably break up, and dozens of Colombian flower exporters would be ruined.
Colombia does not need cocaine to prosper, but it does need a rapid growth in export earnings. Blocking the country's attempts to expand legal exports may be forcing Colombians to choose between drugs and poverty.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); 

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); GUATEMALA (79%); PERU (79%); INDONESIA (79%); 

CITY: MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA (73%); 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; COLOMBIA

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; COCAINE; COFFEE; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET COCAINE (95%); COFFEE MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); COFFEE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); EXPORT CONTROLS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); CARTELS (72%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); PLANT CAPACITY (68%); PRICE CHANGES (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (53%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 



475 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Official Questions Foreign Airline Deals

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner said today that the Bush Administration had serious questions about the increasing number of foreign investments in United States airlines, even when the foreign partners buy stakes smaller than the 25 percent legal limit.
''I will keep an eagle eye on these transactions,'' said Mr. Skinner, who is reviewing the recently negotiated European acquisitions of stakes in Northwest Airlines and United Airlines.
British Airways is acquiring a 15 percent stake in United. And KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, which contributed $400 million to the partnership acquiring Northwest, could eventually raise its stake to 20 percent by exercising warrants. Other foreign airlines have also arranged deals with airlines in the United States, including Swissair with Delta Air Lines and Scandinavian Airline System with Texas Air. 
Mr. Skinner, in a speech to international airline officials in Washington, provided the latest sign of the Transportation Department's worries over the changing structure of the airline industry. His aides had billed the speech as a significant policy address, but he raised many questions without providing firm answers to them.
Citing safety considerations and competition, he said he was troubled by the rising debt being accrued by airlines in the recent transactions.
''I will not allow excessive debt in the airline industry to jeopardize the public interest,'' he said. ''Debt-ridden airlines, forced to adopt sweeping austerity measures, may unwittingly threaten the safety of the traveling public.''
At the same time, he said, heavily indebted airlines would be more likely to go bankrupt or to lose market share during an economic recession, reducing the level of competition.
Mr. Skinner said he held ''the very strong presumption that the marketplace knows more about the proper capitalization of business than do government regulators.'' It is widely believed that he will allow the Northwest takeover to proceed. He said he had already made up his mind on the matter but refused to disclose his decision.
His remarks coincided with hearings before committees in both the House of Representatives and the Senate, in which lawmakers are looking into concentration and competition in the airline industry.
On the issue of foreign ownership, Mr. Skinner cited several concerns:
* Might minority investors exercise control over a highly indebted airline that has just been through a leveraged buyout?
* Would American negotiators be compromised in bargaining over international routes, which are agreed to by governments, when a foreign airline is involved on both sides of the talks?
* Would international competition or national security be affected?
Although he said he believed in the principle of open investment, he said, ''To extol the virtues of a free market for the flow of airline capital without reference to the highly restricted market in which international airlines operate would be to ignore reality.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); AF (PAR) (57%); AF (AMS) (57%); SAS NOK (OSL) (56%); SAS (STO) (56%); SAS (CPH) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (57%); SAS AB (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS AIRLINES (93%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (71%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (66%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); 

PERSON: SKINNER, SAMUEL K (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR SAMUEL KNOX 'SAMUEL K' SKINNER (93%); 



476 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Costs in New York Area Rose by 0.2% in August

 BODY:
Consumer prices in the New York metropolitan area rose by two-tenths of 1 percent in August, the regional bureau of the Labor Department reported yesterday.
Higher prices for apparel, housing, food and beverages accounted for much of the rise, said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, the regional commisioner of labor statistics.
Last month's rise, in line with increases of one-tenth of 1 percent in July and two-tenths in June, contrasts with rises that ranged from five-tenths to 1 percent in the first five months of the year. It also contrasts with the national report, which showed the price index unchanged in August. Mr. Ehrenhalt said the difference was a result of the earlier appearance of fashion lines in New York compared to the rest of the country. 
 
Steamroller 'Losing Steam'
The slowdown in the New York area rises indicates that ''the inflation steamroller we saw earlier in the year is rapidly losing steam,'' Mr. Ehrenhalt added.
The rise in apparel prices, which is common in August with the introduction of fall clothing lines, was based on a 4.9 percent increase in women's and girls' clothing prices and a 1.6 percent increase in footwear prices. Boys' and men's apparel prices, however, were down by 1.1 percent.
Housing prices rose three-tenths of 1 percent in August, largely reflecting a five-tenths increase in homeowners' costs.
Reflecting the same trend as in the national report, the largest declines were in energy prices, which were down 1.2 percent. Gasoline prices were down 2.3 percent, the largest drop in three years, Mr. Ehrenhalt said. Combined with a drop of six-tenths of 1 percent in gasoline prices in July, the recent declines constrast sharply with the 13.5 percent increase in the first half of the year.
 
Private Transportation Down
Also reflecting the decline in gasoline prices, private transportation prices dropped by four-tenths of 1 percent. But public transportation was up by three-tenths.
Prices for meats, poultry, fish, eggs and dairy products all increased by six-tenths of 1 percent. Most other food products, including cereals and bakery goods, were up moderately, but fruits and vegetables declined by seven-tenths.
Prices of medical care rose by six-tenths of 1 percent, and entertainment prices increased by eight-tenths.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR, DEPARTMENT OF (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: PRICES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PRICE INCREASES (92%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CITIES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); TRENDS (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); GASOLINE (79%); POULTRY (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (77%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (74%); STATISTICS (73%); MEN'S CLOTHING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (60%); 



477 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Skips Loan Payment

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Brazil, the third world's biggest debtor, skipped an important interest payment Monday, joining a growing list of Latin American countries in arrears on debt.
Bankers in New York said Brazil had failed to pay $1.6 billion of interest due on loans from commercial banks. The interest bill was due on Monday, and Brazil's Finance Minister, Mailson Nobrega, has said repeatedly that Brazil will not be able to pay unless it receives fresh financing from abroad. Since the minister made his comments, Brazil has not received any new loans.
A Finance Ministry spokesman simply referred to the minister's statements when asked whether Brazil had paid the interest due to banks. ''Any delays do not mean a suspension of payments nor the declaration of a moratorium,'' the spokesman said.
Mr. Nobrega himself was at a Latin American financial meeting at Cancun, Mexico.
Brazil's huge $110 billion foreign debt has served to push up the internal debt, in turn fueling inflation, economists say.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AFG (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); LATIN AMERICA (89%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (59%); 

COMPANY: LATIN AMERICAN FINANCIAL PUBLICATIONS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL

SUBJECT: CREDIT BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (84%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); 



478 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: Angola Is Admitted to the World Bank and I.M.F.

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Angola joined the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank today, despite objections by the United States, which earlier this summer cast the only vote against its membership.
Angola said that it would not only seek aid from the two global finance organizations but that it was also reaching out for American investment.
Membership in the two organizations could open the door to hundreds of millions of dollars in loans as well as technical assistance for the African nation, which is ruled by the Marxist People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola, or M.P.L.A.
''Angola is a country that will necessarily need assistance,'' Finance Minister Augusto Teixeira de Matos said at a news conference at the World Bank today shortly after signing membership documents. ''To leave Angola alone and weakened now would be a disaster for the West.'' 
 
Reform Program
He said Angola had embarked on significant market-oriented economic reforms, including freeing prices and revamping the banking system. He indentified oil, fishing, agriculture and transportation as promising areas for investment.
Angola's membership could also strengthen the M.P.L.A.'s hand in the 14-year-old civil war with the forces of Jonas Savimbi's National Union for the Total Independence of Angola, or Unita.
Treasury and State Department officials declined to comment, but a Republican staff member on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee observed that until national reconciliation had been achieved ''it would be crazy for Americans to invest'' in Angola. The United States refuses to recognize the M.P.L.A. Government.
A cease-fire in the civil war, which was negotiated in December, recently broke down. Monday, Mr. Savimbi failed to show up at an eight-nation African peace meeting in Zaire because of what were reported to be wide differences between him and President Jose Eduardo dos Santos of Angola.
At today's news conference Mr. Matos said the first loans his Government would seek would be for rebuilding the county's war-shattered infrastructure.
He also said that Angola, which has a total debt of $6.3 billion, had had trouble meeting debt service payments and had recently entered into rescheduling agreements with both the Soviet Union and Western Governments.
He said the entire $2.5 billion that Angola owes to Moscow has been rescheduled over 15 years and that $400 million of debt to Western Governments was recently rescheduled over 10 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ANGOLA (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR TRADE & INDUSTRY LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR COMMERCE & INDUSTRY GAMBIA LTD (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (92%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; ANGOLA

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (97%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CIVIL WAR (87%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H JONAS MALHEIRO SAVIMBI (55%); 



479 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Griffin Proposal To Cost Investors

BYLINE: By Richard D. Hylton

 BODY:
LESS than a year after raising $325 million in the ''junk bond'' market, Merv Griffin yesterday proposed a reorganization of Resorts International that will leave bondholders with substantial losses but holding a 25 percent equity stake in the troubled casino company.
The proposal, which is viewed as an attempt to recapitalize Resorts without going into bankruptcy court, got a hostile reception from some analysts. ''If I were the bondholders, I wouldn't accept the recap plan,'' said Lee S. Isgur, an analyst with Paine Webber. ''I'd try to force it into bankruptcy and see what I could get.'' 
Resorts noted grimly that unless the plan was approved by the bondholders and put in place quickly, there was ''a significant likelihood'' that both Resorts and Griffin Resorts, its subsidiary, would be forced into bankruptcy.
The plan, proposed by Resorts and its investment banker, Salomon Brothers, offers bondholders a combination of new subordinated secured debt due in 1999 and some cash and common stock in exchange for Resorts' junior and senior debt.
Mr. Griffin took control of Resorts last fall as part of a complicated deal that left Donald Trump in control of the Taj Mahal, an uncompleted casino.
The proposed reorganization demonstrates just how risky it can be to buy bonds based not on cash flow but on reported asset values. Less than a year ago, when Mr. Griffin was taking over Resorts, his new company, Griffin Resorts, went to the junk bond market to raise $325 million. The company already had $600 million of junk debt on its books.
The pitch for the Griffin Resorts bonds last year was not on the company's cash flow. Resorts has been an poor performer in the Atlantic City casino business and said it would not have enough cash, at least in the first year, to meet its interest obligations. But buyers were assured that the bonds were senior to the previous Resorts debt, meaning they would have first claim on the company's assets, and that no matter what happened, there was clearly enough collateral. By the second year, the company expected business to improve enough to cover the needed interest payments.
The reorganization eliminates the right of Griffin Resorts security owners to get cash interest payments, offers a lower rate of interest to be paid in more paper and raises the possibility of up to a 30 percent capital loss if all does work out.
At that, the holders of Griffin Resorts paper are doing better than holders of the Resorts International paper. But better in this case is still poor.
For those who bought Griffin Resort first mortgage notes at par, with a 13 7/8 percent coupon just a year ago, the plan is to give them an equal face value of new 10 percent notes. The notes pay interest in more notes and, if Resorts can come up with the cash, can be redeemed at 70 percent of par value through the end of next year and at smaller discounts thereafter.
The owners of Griffin Resorts' 13.5 percent senior reset notes, who were supposed to have bonds with an interest rate to be reset to insure the bonds traded above par in October 1990. Instead, they will get the same 10 percent rate and the same possibility of being called at a sharp discount to par value.
If any holders of Griffin Resorts paper choose not to convert, they will lose the collateral backing up those securities, the company said.
For holders of Resorts International bonds, which were outstanding before Mr. Griffin took over, the proposal is to give them new bonds, some cash and some stock in the new company.
Depending on the issue, for each each $1,000 principal amount of the Resorts bonds, holders will get at least $571.64 and as much as $686.85 in new bonds, paying a below-market interest rate of 7 percent for the first three years and 8 percent thereafter. For the first five years, interest could be paid in new bonds, rather than in cash. Such bonds would be expected to trade at sharp discounts to their nominal value. Assuming that all of the bonds are exchanged, the company said it would issue $377.7 million in new bonds.
In addition, the bondholders would be paid from $81.66 to $98.12 in cash per $1,000 old bond, and would get 14 to 16 shares of common stock. Since that stock is not publicly traded, there is no way to estimate its value.
Part of Mr. Griffin's troubles with Resorts is the original assessment of the value of the company's Atlantic City and Bahamas real estate. The plan last year was to sell some of the real estate to reduce debt and increase cash flow through upgrading operations. The real estate has turned out to be worth less than Resorts said it would sell for and operating income has fallen rather than risen, as Mr. Griffin expected. The company's market share in Atlantic City has continued to fall, for reasons that the company said included ''the deterioration of the Resorts Casino Hotel facility and equipment.''
There was no trading reported of bonds in either Griffin Resorts, which have been trading around 60 percent of par, or of Resorts, where the quotes have been about half that level. Ross Haberman, a trader at R. D. Smith & Company, a firm that specializes in distressed issues, said he expected prices to fall today.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RT (AMEX) (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RESORTS INTERNATIONAL INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESORTS INTERNATIONAL INC

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CORPORATE BONDS; STOCKS (CORPORATE) BONDS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); RESORTS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); CASINOS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); COMMON STOCK (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); APPROVALS (73%); CASH FLOW (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D; GRIFFIN, MERV DONALD TRUMP (57%); 



480 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
U.S. Securities Little Changed

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds were little changed in sluggish trading yesterday, despite economic reports that were better than expected, while the ''junk bond'' market staged a rally after losing ground last week.
Dealers said a heavy influx of new issues, including a $1.5 billion offering from the World Bank, was the big reason that the latest reports on consumer prices and housing starts did not get a more enthusiastic reception.
The consumer price data were particularly positive, participants and analysts said.
By the numbers, the consumer prices in August were unchanged from a month earlier. Excluding the volatile food and energy sectors, prices rose by just two-tenths of 1 percent. 
In addition to the consumer price report, the Government said housing starts fell by 5 percent last month.
''Numbers like that should tend to make people want to do some business,'' one government bond trader said. ''But with the Fed on hold, it seems like we are running out of steam. And the natural thing for the market to do when the Fed is on hold and a lot of new supply comes to market is to retreat.''
Dana Johnson, chief money market economist at the First National Bank of Chicago, said: ''There is a maddening sense that the data we have been getting for the last six weeks aren't telling a different story. The numbers that came out on Tuesday were good, but they merely continue the story of moderation in the economy and an underlying inflation rate that is around 4.5 percent, which is roughly the same as it was a year ago.''
Treasury prices rose by as much as a quarter of a point after the reports were released, but retreated later.
By late in the day, the 8 1/4 percent bonds of 2019 were offered at a price of 100 13/32, down 1/32, to yield 8.08 percent.
 
Secondary Treasury Issues
Among secondary Treasury issues, the 8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 99 14/32, up 1/32, to yield 8.08 percent. And the 8 1/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 100 27/32, down 1/32, to yield 8.03 percent.
Meanwhile, short-term Treasury bill rates rose sharply.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.71 percent, up 9 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bills were offered at 7.66 percent, up 4 basis points. And one-year bill rates rose by a basis point, to a late offered rate of 7.53 percent.
In contrast to the Treasury market, the mood in the high-yield market for junk bonds improved markedly yesterday.
News that the Campeau Corporation had reached agreement with creditors prompted a rally in all sectors of the high-yield market, participants said.
Prices of Campeau-related issues like Allied Stores and Federated Department Stores rose by 5 to 7 points, traders said. And higher-quality issues like RJR Nabisco, which began to attract buyers on Monday, rose an additional 1 1/2 to 2 points.
''A lot of what happened today was led by the Street,'' one high-yield trader said, ''but there was substantial business from retail accounts as well.''
Dealers said that volume was fairly heavy, especially considering that many participants were in North Carolina at a high-yield conference sponsored by Goldman, Sachs & Company.
Traders of Government agency debt said the $1.5 billion World Bank global bond issue was well received.
The 10-year issue, priced at $99.55, to yield 8.442 percent, or 37.5 basis points over the prevailing yield on 10-year Treasury notes at the time of pricing, was trading late yesterday at 34 basis points over 10-year Treasuries.
Activity in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate bonds was light yesterday, dealers said. Prices of most issues fell by about an eighth of a point.
Secondary issues of tax-exempt municipal bonds were weighed down by an $874 million, two-part issue from the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York. Prices of most secondary issues fell by about three-eighths of a point, participants said.
The Dormitory Authority offering consisted of $692 million of serial, term and zero-coupon bonds, and $182 million of special obligation bonds.
Serial bonds from the larger of the two issues range in maturity from 1991 to 2005, and were originally priced with coupons from 6.35 percent in 1991 to 7.30 percent in 2005. Coupons on the term bonds offered range from 7 percent on bonds maturing in 2008 to 6 percent in 2017.
The $182 million special obligation issue contained of serial bonds with coupons from 6 percnet in 1990 to 6.70 percent in 1998.
Lazard Freres & Company acted as lead manager for the offering. The larger part of the offering is rated A by Moody's Investors Service and A-plus by the Standard & Poor's Corporation. The special obligation bonds are rated AAA by both Moody's and Standard & Poor's.

GRAPHIC: Treasury Yield Curve graph

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (60%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES BONDS (92%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); INFLATION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



481 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Posts Mixed Results Amid Intervention Reports

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mixed in nervous worldwide trading yesterday amid reports that the Federal Reserve had intervened to keep the currency down.
Gold prices declined. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $361.20 an ounce, down 50 cents from late Monday. The Republic National Bank quoted a late bid for gold of $360 an ounce, off 70 cents. 
Zlatko Glamuzina, chief dealer at the New York office of Banco di Sicilia, said reports that the Fed had sold small amounts of dollars added to the tension of an already nervous market after the declines recently. Last week's downturn followed the release of mixed economic reports and rumors.
''We don't really know what future lies for the dollar,'' Mr. Glamuzina said. ''Today it seems more of a wait-and-see attitude where traders didn't feel comfortable unloading long or short positions.''
A corporate dealer at an American bank in Frankfurt agreed, saying, ''People don't have much of a medium-term view about the dollar now.''
In Tokyo, where trading ends before Europe's business day begins, the dollar fell 0.70 yen to close at 145.73 yen. The dollar traded at 145.55 yen in London and at 145.85 yen in New York, down from 145.93 on Monday.
The dollar was mixed against the British pound. The pound firmed to $1.5720 in London, compared with $1.5695 late Monday. Sterling fetched $1.5710 in New York, unchanged from late Monday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Monday's quotes, included: 1.9535 West German marks, up from 1.9523; 1.6905 Swiss francs, up from 1.6840; 6.60105 French francs, up from 6.5830; 1.18455 Canadian dollars, up from 1.18335, and 1,406.50 Italian lire, up from 1,404.50.
Late dollar rates in Europe, compared with Monday, were: 1.6870 Swiss francs, up from 1.6850; 6.5875 French francs, down from 6.5890; 2.2000 Dutch guilders, down from 2.2180; 1.1833 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1834, and 1,406.50 Italian lire, down from 1,417.40.
Gold traded in London at $360.50 an ounce late yesterday, down from Monday's $361.65. In Zurich, gold traded at $360.50 an ounce late in the day, down from $361.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (58%); HSB (PAR) (58%); HBC (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (77%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); SWITZERLAND (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); ZURICH (52%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); BANCO DI SICILIA SPA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GERMAN MARK (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); 



482 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Soybeans at 22-Month Low For the September Contract

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Soybeans for spot delivery on the Chicago Board of Trade fell to a 22-month low yesterday on a combination of harvest pressure and position-shifting in the September contract before its expiration today.
Other soybean contracts closed mostly higher, while most corn and wheat futures retreated amid increased corn harvesting and slack export demand for United States grains.
On other markets, energy futures were sharply lower, cocoa futures advanced, livestock and meat futures were mixed and precious metals inched lower. 
Soybean futures settled 9 1/4 cents lower to 3 cents higher, with the contract for delivery in September at $5.63 a bushel, the lowest since Nov. 16, 1987.
Wheat futures settled 1 cent to 2 1/4 cents lower, with September at $3.80 a bushel; corn was 1 1/2 cents lower to 2 cents higher, with September at $2.33 3/4 a bushel, and oats were 1 1/4 cents lower to 1 cent higher, with September at $1.34 a bushel.
Aside from the drop in the September soybean contract, the markets held up well in the face of the advancing harvest and forecasts for continued good growing weather.
 
Crude Oil Down Sharply
Crude oil futures fell steeply on the New York Mercantile Exchange, paced by liquidation in the expiring October contract, which goes off the board today.
Heating oil futures also weakened significantly, partly as a result of mild temperatures in the Northeast.
''Heating oil is not getting any help from seasonal factors and supplies seem to be building,'' said Jim Ritterbusch, vice president of trading and research with the Carson Petroleum Company, a Chicago-area petroleum distributor.
After the close, the American Petroleum Institute reported that United States stocks of petroleum distillates, including heating oil, increased by 1.61 million barrels last week. Gasoline stocks rose by 244,000 barrels while crude oil stocks fell by 9.61 million barrels.
Cocoa futures rebounded modestly on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York after tumbling to 14-year lows on Monday following the International Cocoa Organization's failure to repair its price-support mechanism. Cocoa settled $9 to $13 higher, with December at $1,047 a metric ton.
Cattle futures finished mostly lower on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange in the wake of Monday's Agriculture Department report showing lighter-than-expected marketings of cattle off feedlots last month.
Precious-metal futures drifted lower in response to the Labor Department's report of no change in consumer prices last month. Gold and silver perform best during times of rising inflation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (94%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; SOYBEANS FUTURES (96%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (92%); COCOA MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); HEATING OIL PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (87%); COCOA FARMING (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); OATS MARKETS (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); WHEAT FARMING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); GASOLINE (76%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); COFFEE (71%); PETROLEUM WHOLESALERS (66%); INFLATION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 



483 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
Jamaica Mall Is Renovated After Setback

BYLINE: By Shawn G. Kennedy

 BODY:
THE owners of the shopping mall in the former Gertz department store in Jamaica, Queens, who have seen a third of their retail tenants leave since the mall opened 18 months ago, are trying to infuse new life in the stalled center with a renovation and a new name.
In the last few months they have spent more than $100,000 to upgrade the basement level of the mall, which opened in the spring of 1988 with nearly 60 tenants. Today about 25,000 square feet of space is available for rent in the mall, which occupies the ground floor and basement of the building on Jamaica Avenue between Union Hall Street and Guy R. Brewer Boulevard.
But the owners, Lager Associates and members of the Gertz family, remain confident about the long-term prospects for the retail center. They cite such thriving tenants as Fava Shoes, Sterling Optical, the Albee Dental Center, Flowers by Katina and Nu Tribe Hair Sculptors. 
They attributed the mall's shaky start to the management problems of the mall's main tenant, John Chung, a Chicago-based retailer who specializes in discount merchandising. The retailer, they said, had a marketing plan that failed to recognize the level of sophistication of the area's shoppers.
''Many of the stores have done very well,'' said Ethan Lazar, a general partner of Lager Associates, which spent $10 million constructing the mall two years ago. ''In fact, overall retailing in this area is stronger now than when when we opened.''
Gertz, once a major retailer in Queens, closed in 1981 after struggling to compete with regional shopping centers that started opening in the 1960's.
The plan to turn the department store into an office building and minimall was announced shortly after the store closed. The building's six upper floors were converted to 300,000 square feet of office space. Most of it was leased to the State of New York, which transferred four agencies to the building from the World Trade Center in 1985.
But the owners were not so fortunate in their efforts to find retail tenants. After a two-year campaign resulted in leasing about half the 100,000 square feet there, they signed a lease with Mr. Chung, who took all 53,000 square feet in the basement with the idea of subletting the space.
Many of Mr. Chung's subtenants were discount concerns. But the discount shopping level never took hold with shoppers. Douglas Sugarman, the mall's manager, said one reason was that there were too many of the same types of retailers. At one time, he said, there were 10 jewelery stores or exchanges. But the tenant mix was not the only difficulty.
''There were problems with security, and the basement was not fixed up the way we had been told it would be,'' said Mrs. Shermin Emmanuel, one of the tenants who left.
Mrs. Emmanuel, who with her sister, Yvonne Walker, own Shervonnes, a women's clothing and gift store, believes that the mall is a good location for merchants and will reopen the store this week.
Mr. Chung's Chicago telephone has been disconnected, and he could not be reached for comment.
Last spring the problems reached a crucial stage when Con Edison, because of nonpayment of bills, cut off power to the basement. That forced Lager Associates to close the basement.
Meanwhile, Lager Associates terminated its lease with Mr. Chung and started a renovation. A gray and blue tile floor has been installed, lighting fixtures have been added and the basement has been painted. A food court is also being built. In the next few weeks a sign bearing the mall's new name, Jamaica Plaza Mall, will be installed over the Jamaica Avenue entrance. It had been called the Gertz Mall.
''We are looking for more upscale retailers than were in many of these spaces originally,'' Mr. Sugarman said. ''Demographic studies show that the average household income in the neighborhood is about $32,000 a year. So we want the sort of tenants that can best respond to that economic strength.''
A poll of frequent shoppers in the mall and of the employees in the building's office space showed that a bookstore, drugstore, crafts and hobby store, record shop, sporting goods store and full service restaurant would be welcome.
The mall has a prime location in the middle of the flourishing Jamaica Avenue shopping strip that stretches from Sutphin Boulevard to 175th Street. According to a recent study, the strip is used by 385,000 residents, workers in the area and students.
The mall currently has 33 tenants, Mr. Sugarman said. Twelve retailers who were in the basement have agreed to reopen stores there.
The asking price for available spaces, which range from 350 to 18,000 square feet, is $25 to $45 a square foot, depending on the location and size of the store.

GRAPHIC: Map of Jamaica, Queens showing location of the Jamaica Mall

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: REAL ESTATE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FLOWERS BY JULIET (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JAMAICA PLAZA MALL; LAGER ASSOCIATES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAMAICA (NYC); QUEENS (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SHOPPING CENTERS RETAILERS (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (75%); MARKETING PLAN (71%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (67%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G; GERTZ FAMILY



484 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 27, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Gorbachev: Beyond Our Help

BYLINE: By Stephen Sestanovich; Stephen Sestanovich is director of Soviet studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Mikhail Gorbachev's troubles are mounting again, and Americans wonder whether and how to help him. This week's events frame the question nicely.
Yesterday, the Communist Party's Central Committee met in Moscow to consider the Soviet Union's growing ethnic turmoil, and heard Mr. Gorbachev draw the line against separatist aspirations in the Baltic republics.
Today, Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze flies to Washington to discuss U.S.-Soviet relations with President Bush and Secretary of State Baker. 
Some U.S. officials reportedly believe that a nice diplomatic boost would help Mr. Gorbachev contend with forces that seem to be closing in on him. Others advise waiting until the dust settles, for he - and perestroika - may soon be gone.
To argue for delay misstates our predicament. The dust is not going to settle for a long time, and the Administration has to conduct policy in the face of uncertainty. But to argue that progress in East-West relations can be a major help to reform is to misstate Mr. Gorbachev's predicament.
The authority of Soviet political institutions is unraveling for reasons that dwarf any foreign policy success. Remember that Mr. Gorbachev's dramatic trip to Beijing last May opened the summer of the worst political chaos since he took office.
Relations with the U.S. are no different. No agreement on chemical weapons or nuclear testing, both high on the Baker-Shevardnadze agenda, will impress the Donbass coal miners, who warned last week that the agreement that ended their strike in July is not being observed.
No breakthrough on strategic arms will appease farmers who were told in August that they would receive hard currency for their harvest but got I.O.U.'s instead. And no summit meeting will solve Mr. Gorbachev's credibility problem in dealing with ethnic conflicts: He has been so tolerant and conciliatory that nationalist groups now disbelieve his warnings. If the prestige of being a giant on the world stage does not allay his internal problems, won't agreements that help him redirect economic resources have a direct impact?
It is argued that large cuts in conventional military forces could contribute to keeping reform alive. But the Soviets will have trouble cashing a ''peace dividend.'' The military-industrial resources to be freed up would be transferred to a civilian economy that is grossly wasteful, has been turned upside-down by successive reorganization schemes and is hit hard by inflation.
Moreover, Mr. Gorbachev's economic advisers insist that, given the huge budget deficit, their top priority has to be cutting spending outright, not just shifting it to other uses. If so, the first result of a smaller defense budget won't be more consumer goods, but unemployment. Not much of a peace dividend here.
Other ideas to be discussed in U.S.-Soviet meetings this week go beyond helping Mr. Gorbachev reallocate resources internally. They could help make available resources from outside.
President Bush speaks of ''integrating'' the Soviet Union into the world community - perhaps to include membership in the International Monetary Fund and General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Yet the short-term impact is negligible. One recent, highly sympathetic study found ''few if any benefits'' for Moscow in early GATT membership, and proposed observer status as a kind of tutorial in free trade.
Generating extra resources is not a real problem for Soviet foreign economic policy. Mr. Gorbachev could in an afternoon borrow the money needed for goods that might convince ordinary citizens that things are improving. He hasn't done so. After a summer of strikes and rioting, his plans to increase imports may come to only $1 billion or $2 billion. His TV speech last week promised austerity measures that will be ''unpopular,'' ''harsh'' and ''painful.'' Many Western economists trace Mr. Gorbachev's peculiar course to a hypercautious fiscal policy. But the real explanation may be his high-wire political radicalism. As rationing goes into effect across the Soviet Union, he replies serenely that the answer is not to buy goods abroad but to acquire the means to produce them. This is the revolutionary strategy Lenin called ''the worse, the better'': To overturn the system, do nothing to ease its crisis.
For Mr. Gorbachev, the path to reform lies through disorder. At home and abroad, he has shown extraordinary confidence that he can survive the chaos his policies create.
Consider his encouragement of centrifugal forces in the Soviet bloc. Soviet support for Hungary against East Germany will jeopardize what Mr. Gorbachev's predecessors saw as a principal bulwark of their security: Western acceptance of the European status quo, especially of East Germany's legitimacy. His actions oblige even West Germans who prefer to ignore the reunification issue to take it seriously - a guarantee of terrible dilemmas for Soviet policy down the road.
In undermining Moscow's international position, Mr. Gorbachev is exploding the long-held idea that, to succeed, perestroika requires foreign policy successes. He is forcing us to reconsider the relationship between his foreign and domestic policies.
Earlier, when his interest in detente first became clear, we used to say that to pursue reform at home he needed a calm international environment. Now, Soviet internal problems are so great that foreign policy has become less important altogether. He is prepared to accept - even to tempt - international instability.
Mr. Gorbachev's flexible, don't-take-no-for-an-answer diplomacy gives us reasons to explore areas of agreement. We can even get our hopes up a little. But we should see that he is pursuing upheaval on a scale that makes it all but impossible for the U.S. to affect the course of events.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BALTIC STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); BUDGETS (85%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); COAL MINING (50%); 

PERSON: SESTANOVICH, STEPHEN; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (94%); EDUARD AMVROSIYEVICH SHEVARDNADZE (72%); GEORGE WALKER BUSH (57%); 



485 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1873 words

HEADLINE: Bush Dispatches Troops to Island In Storm's Wake

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
President Bush ordered more than 1,000 military police to the Virgin Islands last night to help restore calm after two days of looting and sporadic shooting on St. Croix that was set off by the devastation of a major hurricane.
The United States had already sent six Coast Guard cutters to St. Croix to evacuate terrified tourists and residents.
The Pentagon said last night that about 1,100 military police from Fort Bragg, N.C., Fort Hood, Tex., and Fort Leonard Wood, Mo., were scheduled to arrive in St. Croix beginning this morning. A Defense Department memorandum said the troops would arrive aboard 16 Air Force C-141 Starlifter aircraft and would take with them three helicopters, ground vehicles and appropriate medical equipment.
''I have been informed that conditions of domestic violence and disorder exist in and about the Virgin Islands,'' Mr. Bush said in a statement. But the Governor of the Virgin Islands, Alexander Farrelly, told The Associated Press last night that he had not yet asked for Federal troops and that ''there is no near state of anarchy'' in the Virgin Islands. 
The disturbances started soon after Hurricane Hugo devasted much of St. Croix, as it had done to dozens of islands in a 500-mile arc of the Caribbean on Sunday and Monday. But the unrest increased Tuesday and yesterday in what witnesses described as a complete breakdown of civil authority.
Reports from people who fled St. Croix yesterday on a flight to Miami, amateur radio operators and news service accounts indicated that gangs were moving through the streets with rifles. Some witnesses said local police officers and National Guardsmen were among the looters.
 
Path of Hurricane
Hurricane Hugo continued to bear down on the East Coast today, and meteorologists said it was most likely to come ashore in the Carolinas or Georgia late Thursday or early Friday. [Page B19.] In its pass through the Caribbean, the storm left about 50,000 people homeless from Guadeloupe to Puerto Rico and caused billions of dollars in damage. Nineteen people were reported killed.
Mr. Bush officially declared the Virgin Islands a disaster area earlier yesterday, which will entitle hurricane victims there to reconstruction loans and other forms of long-term Federal relief. He was considering extending that designation to Puerto Rico.
With reports yesterday afternoon of widespread disorder continuing on St. Croix, the Coast Guard sent in the cutters with armed men, to rescue civilians.
 
Coast Guard Evacuations
Coast Guard officials in Miami said initial reports from one of the cutters, the Bear, ''indicate that the situation ashore is serious.''
''Looting and civil disturbances are continuing,'' the officials said.
The crew was evacuating ''all people from the island who fear for their safety,'' the Coast Guard said in a statement. A cargo plane was ready to supplement the evacuation, if needed. As of 11 P.M. yesterday, 100 people had been evacuated by the cutters and 77 more had flown out aboard a C-130 that brought in the some of the 100 Federal Bureau of Investigation agents and deputy United States marshals sent to the Virgin Islands by Attorney General Dic Thornburgh..
An additional 200 people were evacuated to a National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration research vessel in Christiansted harbor, said Petty Officer James Wentworth, a Coast Guard spokesman.
Governor Farrelly of the Virgin Islands, speaking from his office in Charlotte Amalie on St. Thomas, about 30 miles north of St. Croix, acknowledged, ''There is some looting, no doubt about that.
''But,'' he added, ''there is no near state of anarchy. And I should know. I'm in the streets every day and I'm the Governor of this territory.''
 
Reports on Unrest
People arriving last night at Miami International Airport from St. Croix spoke of widespread unrest on the island.
Jackie Evans, on her way to South Carolina, said: ''Everyone was looting - National Guardsmen in uniform, policemen. There's no law and order.
''They're holding up gas stations,'' she continued. ''They're holding up everything. At the gas station, there's a six-hour wait to get gas, so people are coming in with machetes and guns to get gas.''
Robert Dykes of Los Altos, Calif., another passenger on the flight said there were ''armed guards at all the hotels.'' He also said National Guard troops from Puerto Rico had surrounded the airport.
Defense Department officials said they could not confirm reports that members of the National Guard in the Virgin Islands were participating in the civil disturbances there. But Gary Williams, a San Juan reporter who had flown to the island, said he saw police officers and some of the island's National Guardsmen participating in the looting. ''We saw a National Guard truck filled to capacity with all kinds of stuff in it,'' he told The Associated Press.
''It's very bad, extremely bad,'' Mr. Williams continued. ''When we landed, we were pounced upon by about 15 tourists. They said, 'Please get food! Please get water! Please help us! They're looting. We've seen police looting. We've seen National Guard looting. There's no law and order here.' '' Lieut. David Hume, who is directing the Coast Guard's relief operations in the Caribbean, said his men had seen and videotaped extensive rioting on the island. ''The St. Croix National Guard is nowhere to be found,'' he said.
James Fanjoy, a private helicopter pilot who just returned to San Juan, said residents of St. Croix had told him ''Everyone's gone crazy. Everything is destroyed. Shop owners are standing at the stores with guns.''
 
'Garbage Bags Loaded'
Mr. Williams said his helicopter flew over the Sunny Isle shopping center in Christiansted, and there appeared to be about 1,000 people in the parking lot, many walking in and out of shattered shops with their arms loaded. At one jewelry store, he said, ''We saw three men and a woman walking out with garbage bags loaded with stuff.''
''We did not see one cop in Christiansted, and that's the main town,'' he said. ''We saw a National Guard truck filled to capacity with all kinds of stuff in it.''
Carlos Harrison, a reporter for The Miami Herald, said he also saw a National Guard truck loaded with merchandise. ''They didn't look like they were delivering things,'' Mr. Harrison said.
Federal officials said the hurricane had damaged a territorial prison and that inmates had either escaped or were released by the authorities.
Debbie Huber, a student at Florida State University, said yesterday that she had spoken to her fiance, David Shuman, on St. Croix. She said Mr. Shuman told her: ''People with guns are robbing houses, hotels, restaurants. They're stealing food, clothing, fuel, batteries, candles, anything.''
Mr. Shuman, an employee of a St. Croix FM radio station, WAVI, said three of the island's four radio towers had been toppled, Miss Huber said. He said officials were simply overwhelmed by the extent of the damage and the looting, and were unable to deal with it.
Unofficial reports said that 97 percent of the buildings on St. Croix, which has a population of 53,000, were damaged or destroyed by the hurricane.
There are nine main islands in the Virgin Islands, six of them held by the British. The United States purchased three of them - St. Croix, St. Thomas and St. John - from Denmark in 1917. The population on the islands is about 110,000, and tourism is the principal industry.
 
Electricity Still Interrupted
In Puerto Rico today, most of the eastern end of island was still without electricity. Water service was restored to some parts of San Juan and its suburbs but remained interrupted in most rural areas. In San Juan, the Fire Department was dispensing water in some neighborhoods from its tanker trucks. Schools and most stores and businesses remained closed.
The main airport at San Juan, Luis Munoz Marin International Airport, reopened for a handful of flights. The airport remained open even after a propane gas line exploded in a Delta Air Lines terminal that is under construction. Jose Felix, superintendent of airport security, said two people were overcome by gas fumes and taken away in an ambulance.
Gov. Rafael Hernandez-Colon of Puerto Rico said the houses of at least 50,000 people were either destroyed or severely damaged. Officials said 27,000 people were housed in temporary Government shelters Tuesday.
The Governor said, ''This is a tragedy of major proportions, which has left desolation among the people and a swath of destruction.''
The American Red Cross in Washington said it would send its first relief supplies, including 15,000 tents, to Puerto Rico today on a flight from McGuire Air Force Base in New Jersey.
Hotels, businesses and homeowners were cleaning up and doing repairs Tuesday, but it appeared that damage was so extensive that it would be weeks before life would return to normal.
Juan Miguel Domenech, director of Puerto Rico's Department of Tourism, said the government will begin an advertising campaign in the United States to offset any negative effect of the hurricane on local tourism. Nearly 860,000 tourists visited the island last year, spending about $1.1 billion.
 
United States Virgin Islands
 
Geography
The United States Virgin Islands are St. Thomas (32 square miles), St. Croix (84 square miles), St. John (20 square miles) and another 50 smaller islands, most of which are uninhabited. The group lies about 40 miles due east of Puerto Rico.
 
Population
In a 1985 census, the total population of the islands was 110,800, an increase of 15,209, or 16 percent, since 1980. The 1985 population was St. Thomas, 52,660; St. Croix, 55,300, and St. John, 2,800. The official language is English, but Spanish is widely spoken. Black and Hispanic people comprise approximately 85 percent of the islands' population. In 1986, median household income for whites ($17,281) was nearly twice that of black and Hispanic households ($9,908).
 
Government
The islands, first settled by Carib and Arawak Indians, were discovered by Columbus in 1493 and claimed for Spain. They later passed through Dutch, English and French hands. Denmark colonized St. Thomas and St. John after 1670 and purchased St. Croix from France in 1733. The islands were purchased by the United States from Denmark for $25 million in a treaty ratified in 1917. They were administered by the Navy until being transferred to the Department of Interior in 1931. They now form an unincorporated territory of the United States.
Residents of the islands are American citizens with a non-voting representative in Congress; they cannot vote in Presidential elections. Since 1970, executive authority has been given to an elected Governor and Lieutenant Governor. The capital is Charlotte Amalie, on St. Thomas.
 
Economy
The islands are heavily dependent on their links to the American mainland. More than 90 percent of their trade is with the United States and Puerto Rico. Natural resources are scarce, and food production is insufficient to satisfy local demand. The economy is based mostly on the tourist trade. Rum production and oil refining are two other important industries.

GRAPHIC: Photos of people carrying food items from a damaged store in St. Croix (CBS New) (pg. A1); resident of San Juan waiting in line for supplies of fresh water (AP); map showing the projected route of the hurricane (NYT); map of the Virgin Islands (NYT) (pg. B19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: HURRICANE HUGO

COUNTRY: VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); GUADELOUPE (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); 

CITY: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ST CROIX (US VIRGIN ISLANDS); VIRGIN ISLANDS (US); PUERTO RICO

SUBJECT: HURRICANES AND TROPICAL STORMS; LOOT AND LOOTING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE ARMED FORCES (91%); HURRICANES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); WITNESSES (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); GANGS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); WEATHER (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); METEOROLOGY (72%); HELICOPTERS (69%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (54%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: FARRELLY, ALEXANDER (GOV); HEVESI, DENNIS GEORGE W BUSH (94%); 



486 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Argentina's Chief to Try Charm on U.S.

BYLINE: By SHIRLEY CHRISTIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Sept. 20

 BODY:
In two and a half months in the presidency, Carlos Saul Menem has woven a kind of magic over the Argentines.
He has played soccer in a packed stadium alongside one of the world's greatest players, Diego Maradona. He has kept up his end of a basketball game with men half his age and two feet taller. He has elegantly danced the tango and the zamba, the folk dance of the Argentine gauchos, or cowboys, on prime-time television. 
In his 20-hour days, he has also tamed Argentina's soaring inflation, refilled the Central Bank with dollars and forged an alliance with private enterprise and capitalism that would have troubled the founder of his political party, Juan D. Peron.
Now he hopes to weave some of that magic abroad as he sets out Saturday night for the United States on a mission to convince foreign officials, bankers and investors that Argentina is a serious country and has stopped living, in his words, ''from party to party.''
Mr. Menem said in an interview that on this trip he wants to transmit ''live and direct'' the news that Argentina's finances are improving dramatically, that he is pushing ahead with efforts to sell off or dismantle Government-owned companies and that the doors are open to foreign investors.
 
Inflation Down Sharply
''Fundamentally, what we want to accomplish is a more fluid insertion of Argentina in the international field,'' he said. ''It is well known that we are coming out of a very conflictive situation, with the image of a decadent Argentina, I would say, a chaotic Argentina without future.''
In July, the month in which Mr. Menem succeeded Raul Alfonsin in the presidency, Argentine inflation almost hit 200 percent, just for the month. On an annualized basis, that was equal to any known world record.
The soaring inflation, attributed to huge deficits by state companies and tax evasion in the last months of the Alfonsin presidency, was accompanied by a drop in the foreign reserves to less than $100 million, next to nothing for a country of 32 million people.
Mr. Menem, bringing respected businessmen and free-market economists into his Government, reduced inflation to 38 percent in August through negotiated wage and price accords. It is expected to fall to 7 or 8 percent this month. Reserves have recovered to almost $2 billion, Mr. Menem said today.
But important tests lie ahead in terms of how quickly the Government can move with plans to turn over state companies to private ownership or management and whether it can come out of the unofficial wage and price controls without new inflation or a recession.
The one-week visit, which is to include a meeting with President Bush in Washington on Wednesday, a speech to the United Nations General Assembly on Monday, and meetings with several European foreign ministers in New York, will be the first ever made to the United States by a sitting President from the Justicialist Party, better known as Peronism.
 
Lifting the Shadows
Mr. Menem, who was in the United States several times before he was elected President, said this visit ''will end an old and stupid legend'' about the supposed anti-Americanism of Peronism and ''lift all shadows from relations between the United States and Argentina.''
General Peron, after first coming to power in 1946, created a kind of populist socialism in Argentina, under which the state became the primary motor of the economy and created a vast network of programs and services for the working class that went further than most social welfare systems, including things like direct gifts to children and vacation hotels for laborers and their families.
Mr. Menem, whose partnership with capitalism has pleased many of those who did not vote for him and dismayed many of those who did, denies he is rejecting Peronism's traditional identification with social justice. He now talks of a ''popular free market economy'' as his goal. He says that means ''private enterprise and free trade, with social justice incorporated.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (90%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARGENTINA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARGENTINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); SOCCER (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TRENDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); DANCE (71%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (71%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (56%); TAX FRAUD (50%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: MENEM, CARLOS SAUL (PRES); CHRISTIAN, SHIRLEY GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



487 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Oakland Schools Face Bankruptcy and Scandal

BYLINE: By LOUIS FREEDBERG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., Sept. 17

 BODY:
The Oakland school system is enmeshed in a scandal involving arrests of school officials and allegations of widespread patronage at a time when it is threatened with bankruptcy.
State legislators, upset at the fiscal deterioration of the system, voted last week to assign a trustee to Oakland, making it the first school district in the state to have a trustee imposed on it.
The trustee's powers will be limited to overseeing the finances of California's fifth-largest school district, but opponents of the move see it as an unwarranted state intrusion.
Amid these troubles, the district has been without a permanent superintendent since Joe Coto resigned last November. He is now superintendent of a high school district in San Jose. The search firm hired by the district to find a new superintendent gave up looking when all the leading candidates withdrew their applications. While the candidates gave no reasons, many appear to have been scared off by the district's problems. 
The district is being overseen by Carolyn Getridge, listed as ''interim deputy superintendent.''
 
Problems With Deficit
The district faces a $10 million deficit in its total budget of $225 million and has just sold $10 million in revenue bonds to try to cover the deficit. But it is unclear whether state officials will agree to using the money for balancing the budget, rather than for the usual construction purposes.
While the school district tries to avoid bankruptcy, eight former or current school employees have been charged with embezzlement of school money, theft of school property and other crimes. The highest official charged is Donald Fennell, director of the district's state and Federal programs. He was indicted on charges of grand theft, falsifying records and misappropriating public money in connection with salary payments to a teacher who was not employed by the district. He has pleaded not guilty. In addition, some school board members and school officials are alleged to have hired friends and relatives in a pattern of patronage.
The Oakland Police Department has set up an 11-member squad to continue investigating the district and has a telephone hot line number to receive tips about wrongdoing. More indictments and arrests are expected.
 
Already Troubled Community
The crisis has touched the soul of an already troubled community that is trying to cope with the ravages of drug use in some neighborhoods, an overburdened health care system and a sluggish local economy.
Of the district's 50,000 students, 59 percent are classified as black, 14 percent as Hispanic, 17 percent as Asian and 9 percent as white. Test scores of high school students are among the lowest in the state. And there is fear that the crisis will accelerate the already considerable flight of whites from the district.
The bill just approved by the Legislature would provide a $10 million bailout loan for the school district, which would meet the deficit without using the revenue bonds. In addition, the bill would impose a trustee to help the district start a financial recovery plan.
Four of the seven Oakland board members, led by Alfreda Abbott, the president, oppose the trustee plan. ''It has been a well-orchestrated and political attack to take over our school district,'' Ms. Abbott said.
 
Local Control at Issue
Ms. Abbott blames California's Education Superintendent, Bill Honig, for what she says is his attempt to subvert local control.
Mr. Honig dismisses those allegations. ''Every day that goes by, it gets worse and worse,'' he said. ''We all like local control, but it's a horrible situation which has to be corrected, and if they won't correct, someone has to help them do it.''
The charged atmosphere has been brushed with racial overtones. Ms. Abbott and the three other board members who oppose the plan are black and contend that attacks on the board are also racially motivated, even though many of the legislators and local officials who have criticized the district are also black.
One prominent black figure, Robert Maynard, publisher of The Oakland Tribune, said in a recent column, ''Unless we learn to throw the rascals out and start over, Oakland's future as a community will be in jeopardy.''
Local private schools say they have been inundated wtih requests from Oakland parents trying to place their children.
In addition, school officials in neighboring communities like Berkeley and Albany say an unusually high number of Oakland students have been trying to enroll in their districts illegally by falsifying their addresses.
 
Recent Loss of Teachers
Students are not the only ones leaving. Close to 100 of the district's almost 2,300 teachers have resigned or retired in the last few months.
One of them is Vivian Jones, who until last year was a music teacher and coach of the Castleleers, a student singing group at Castlemont High School. The group has sung at the White House and is an Oakland institution. Ms. Jones said that when other music teachers were laid off, she felt she had better look for another job.''When I realized that the school district was dying, I began to think about my fate,'' Ms. Jones said, speaking from St. Louis where she now teaches.
Some students say they feel they are being shortchanged, especially in contrast to the city's attempts to bring back the Los Angeles Raiders football team, which abandoned Oakland several years ago.
''I'm a Raider fan,'' said Anthony Polk, 17 years old, a senior at Castlemont. ''But if they don't have any money for the schools, how do they come up with $54 million for the Raiders?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: OAKLAND, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OAKLAND (CALIF); CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ETHICS; FINANCES SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); SCANDALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MISAPPROPRIATION (78%); PROPERTY CRIMES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); ETHICS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EMBEZZLEMENT (69%); BONDS (66%); 

PERSON: FREEDBERG, LOUIS



488 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Venus May Tell Us How to Escape Its Fate;
The Next Giant Step

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The Message From Neptune'' (editorial, Aug. 24) uses a spectacular accomplishment of our space program to support the flawed argument that we should continue to do only what we have shown we know how to do.
Voyager's tour of the outer planets - Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and now Neptune - was truly a triumph of space science and cost only a fraction of the projected investment in our new manned space station. But your concern that investments in manned space activities will squeeze out future opportunities comparable to Voyager's is unfounded. 
The coming months will see major triumphs in space science, beginning with the launch of Galileo to Jupiter in October and continuing with the Hubble Space Telescope early in 1990, exploration of Venus by the Magellan spacecraft launched last spring, a decades-long so-called mission to planet Earth that will help us understand the environmental changes that have begun to take place in recent years, and a host of new scientific spacecraft to be launched in the 1990's to study the Moon, the Sun, the planets and the distant universe.
But a balanced space program must include activities that go beyond what robot spacecraft sensors can tell us. Space is the next major area for human expansion. And the development of new industries that will generate the increased tax revenues to support our desperately needed social and environmental programs will come from research performed on the space station - that can only be performed by people.
True, the expansion of humankind into space is expensive - but compared with what we are willing to spend on health and human services or national defense it is a drop in the bucket. Manned space development absorbs less than half of one percent of the Federal budget, and even if we were to pursue the ambitious goals President Bush called for July 20, the ante would increase to scarcely one percent. Yes, it is risky - but risk taking is unavoidable in the development of new frontiers.
We could continue doing no more than we have done so successfully -study the planets with robot spacecraft. But we have explored virtually the entire solar system, and it would be truly myopic to do nothing further than simply refine the first giant step of data that Voyager and its colleagues have given us. What is needed is to move out on the next giant step: using that best decision-making, action-taking general-purpose computer - the human being -to explore and develop space for the benefit of all humankind, not just for the scientists.
 
JERRY GREY
Washington, Aug. 29, 1989
 The writer is director of science and technology policy, American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEPTUNE (94%); JUPITER (93%); VENUS (93%); URANUS (92%); SATURN (92%); EARTH (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: AERONAUTICS AND ASTRONAUTICS, AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF

SUBJECT: ASTRONAUTICS; ASTRONAUTS SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACECRAFT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACE STATIONS (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); SCIENCE POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (72%); OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); ROBOTICS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (67%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%); 

PERSON: GREY, JERRY ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 



489 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: L.I. Draws Economic Breath and Looks to a High-Tech Future

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your attempted assessment of Long Island's economy after a decade of expansion (news story, Aug. 24) falls seriously short of the mark.
While it is true that we no longer have the same economic conditions that marked the previous decade, that does not mean we are faced with economic woes. The economic transition we are experiencing means we are moving toward a more intensive high technology-research and development base. This is not even remotely similar to an economic bubble that has burst. 
There is solid evidence to support the transition theory of Long Island's economy. A recent survey of the members of the Association for a Better Long Island showed that an overwhelming number of them believe that the island's overall economic position is good. Several pointed out that even in the face of a potential loss of 10,000 jobs because of defense cutbacks, that figure still represents less than one percent of a work force of more than 1.1 million, a number that doesn't include the more than 200,000 Long Islanders who commute to work in New York City. Long Island is no longer solely dependent on defense contracts for its economic success.
You quote Thomas Conoscenti, one of our well-known economists, as saying that Long Island's economy ''now has an opportunity to breathe.'' As a former planner and chief executive of Suffolk County, I concur with Mr. Conoscenti's view that our economy can best be described as being in a temporary lull and that our local governments should use this time to equate future growth with growing job demands. It is also an opportunity for those governments to pursue intelligent policies that will provide benefits, financially and in the quality of life, for Long Island's most basic economic unit, its families.
Of course, our present economic condition requires that government respond by recognizing and satisfying the persistent needs of business. We can achieve our ultimate goal of creating a stable business environment on Long Island by encouraging the kind of high-tech businesses that are compatible with the concerns of our natural environment and by government that can create predictability in taxes, as well as simple predictability.
You leave an impression that Long Island is on the decline; we are not! I bet that 45 of the 50 governors in this country would give their eyeteeth in exchange for having Long Island's economic future in their own states.
 
MICHAEL A. LOGRANDE
Executive Director
Association for a Better Long Island
 Melville, L.I., Sept. 5, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (55%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND, ASSN FOR A BETTER

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (68%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); 

PERSON: LOGRANDE, MICHAEL A



490 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
What Are We Waiting For?

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
For Americans it may be the most hopeful development of the last 40 years in world history. Whether it can work is in the balance. And the United States Government, shrugging lackadaisically, says it will do nothing to help.
That is the nature - the astounding nature - of the Bush Administration's response to the embattlement of Mikhail Gorbachev. As he runs into severe problems in his effort to open up the Soviet system, the President and his men seem barely interested. They say there is no hurry. And anyway, what can we do? 
We can do plenty to help Mr. Gorbachev: now, quickly, when he needs help. I am speaking not of massive aid programs but of gestures with symbolic importance to his constituency at home.
First, Mr. Bush can agree to a summit meeting with the Soviet leader. That would give Mr. Gorbachev a political lift, and at no imaginable cost to George Bush. It is the least the President can do. What is he waiting for?
''I feel under no rush on that subject,'' Mr. Bush said when asked about a summit meeting the other day.
''The key point is, does the Soviet Union understand we want to see their perestroika succeed and see them move forward with more liberties? And I think they do understand that. So I don't think there's any chance of a disconnect there.''
Can Mr. Bush conceivably think that is ''the key point''? A summit conference would not just reprint the U.S. position on perestroika. It would signal a continuing American intention to do business with Mikhail Gorbachev. At a time when he is battling economic disaster and conservative Communist opposition, he would gain status and leverage from a meeting with the American President.
A substantive step ready for Mr. Bush to take is to suspend the Jackson-Vanik Amendment and grant the Soviet Union most-favored-nation trading status. Jewish groups are mostly satisfied with Mr. Gorbachev's relaxation of restrictions on Jewish emigration, and would not object to putting aside Jackson-Vanik.
Easing our trading terms would not produce large or immediate economic benefits for the Soviet Union. But in Soviet eyes it would give Mr. Gorbachev something concrete in return for the gestures he has made to the United States. He is often criticized at home for giving way to the Americans and getting nothing in return.
When Secretary of State Baker meets Foreign Minister Shevardnadze in Wyoming, he could be candidly sympathetic about the problems facing Mr. Gorbachev. He could ask, privately and delicately, whether the United States can help on the menacing food situation in the U.S.S.R.
But all of this depends on a simple understanding. That is that the survival of Mr. Gorbachev, and his success, are in this country's profound interest. The point has nothing to do with ideology, right or left. Just about everyone agrees now, as Jeane Kirkpatrick wrote the other day, that Mr. Gorbachev ''seriously seeks broad reform of his own society.'' The changes in the Soviet Union, Hungary and Poland have been breathtaking. Just now, it is said, Mr. Gorbachev approved Hungary's decision to keep its border open as East Germans streamed through.
We have hardly dared dream of such changes in the Soviet system. And their continuation depends heavily on the fate of Mr. Gorbachev. Without him, the Soviet Union could easily slide into dangerous chaos or slip back into tyranny.
Margaret Thatcher has no difficulty understanding the point, and responding to it. She is going to Moscow this weekend to see Mr. Gorbachev: a hurriedly scheduled meeting plainly designed as a show of support for him.
But American understanding matters. To take one large example, only American commitment to arms control, particularly completion of a Start agreement to reduce the number of strategic weapons, can create a domestic political climate in which Mr. Gorbachev can cut military spending.
Why, then, is the point so hard to understand in Washington? In part there is a strange uneasiness about ending the cold war because change is uncomfortable - as if change could be avoided.
Whatever the reason, there will be a heavy responsibility on George Bush if he does nothing to help Mr. Gorbachev. Not many Presidents have such an opportunity. To miss it could be disastrous.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (85%); CONSERVATISM (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); POLITICS (76%); HISTORY (73%); TRENDS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; LEWIS, ANTHONY GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



491 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Bailout Urged For Hospitals With Losses

BYLINE: By PHILIP S. GUTIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OLD WESTBURY, L.I., Sept. 20

 BODY:
Foreshadowing what is likely to be a divisive debate in Albany next year, a representative of New York City's private hospitals called today for a $300 million bailout of many financially troubled hospitals.
In requesting the emergency aid, $35 million of which would come from New York State, Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, joined representatives of other health-care providers in denouncing New York's system for determining how much hospitals receive for treating patients.
The $35 million in increased state aid, he said, would provide hospitals with about $300 million in additional revenue because more state funds would lead to higher payments from local governments, private insurers and the Federal Medicare program.
 
To Protect Medical 'Assets'
''We are calling on the state,'' Mr. Raske said, ''to protect New York's medical and social assets through a bailout or to untie the hands of hospital managers, now so tightly bound with regulations and rate control, so that they may efficiently work themselves out of the crisis.'' 
To emphasize the severity of the situation, Mr. Raske called on Gov. Mario M. Cuomo to call a special session of the Legislature this fall to address the hospital crisis.
A spokesman for the Governor, however, rejected the call for early state action. The spokesman, Gary Fryer, said, ''We're looking at the problem of hospital reimbursement and have been for several months. The topic will receive attention in the near future, but at the present moment, because we have not concluded on the proper approach, what is the point of having a special session?''
Mr. Raske spoke at a hearing here of the New York State Council on Health Care Financing, which is headed by the leaders of the Legislature's health committees.
 
Operating Losses for Hospitals
His comments came after reports earlier this year that New York State's private hospitals posted operating losses of about $548 million in 1988.
Hospitals and other health-care institutions in the New York metropolitan area reported $359 million of those losses, or 65 percent of the statewide total, Mr. Raske said today. Because the situation in the city, Long Island and Westchester County is so bad, he added, emergency state action is necessary.
Although prompt state action appeared unlikely, today's hearing was clearly the first round of what is expected to be a bitter debate in Albany next year. While most analysts and state officials agree that New York hospitals are in crisis, many in the Cuomo administration and among influential business organizations believe that the growth of health-care costs must be restrained.
The hearing today, the first of two scheduled by the financing council, was held to gather testimony from hospital executives, insurers, business groups, labor unions and others in an effort to evaluate the reimbursement system and prepare legislative recommendations for changing it during the 1990 session. The reimbursement system expires in December 1990.
 
Pledge From Governor
Governor Cuomo has pledged to present several health-care initiatives in his annual State of the State Message in January, and hospital executives are bracing themselves for a long battle over health-care costs and state financing.
One particularly troublesome issue in the battle was discussed today as hospital representatives called for the state to revise its method of calculating costs and reimbursements to hospitals.
The reimbursement system for Medicaid has been a matter of fierce debate since its adoption in 1987. The new system pays hospitals a certain amount for each Medicaid patient, based on the diagnosis, instead of on the length of stay, as had been done previously. Private insurers also base their payments on the state reimbursment plan. Medicaid is the Federal and state health program for the poor, while Medicare is the Federal health program for the elderly.
When it adopted the new reimbursement system, the Legislature approved a plan that used 1985 as a base year for the costs of medical care. But Mr. Cuomo, under the advice of the State Health Commissioner, Dr. David Axelrod, vetoed the bill, and after protracted negotiations the base year was set as 1981.
At the hearing today, Marjorie A. Geiger, a program research specialist in the Bureau of Health Economics of the Health Department, testified that Dr. Axelrod believed 1981 should continue to be used in determining specific reimbursement rates.
 
To Seek Cost Efficiencies
By not moving the base year, Ms. Geiger said, the Health Department believes it will force hospitals to continue to seek cost efficiencies. When problems are identified, like soaring labor costs, the department would seek to give hospitals more money, as it did last year in providing $193 million to cover increased salaries for nurses.
Dr. Axelrod's position on the base year is likely to further outrage doctors and hospital administrators, who last year began to complain loudly about the Commissioner and the regulatory system he has put into place.
Daniel Sisto, president of the Hospital Association of New York, a lobbying and information gathering organization, testified, for example, that ''every hospital needs a reasonable chance to meet its costs in 1991 terms, not in 1981 terms.''
Beyond the medical problems of AIDS, drug abuse and mental illness, hospitals say they are under pressure from the state's reimbursements, which they contend are unrealistically low. In addition, the Federal Medicare program, which a recent study by Brandeis University found had oversubsidized costs in New York hospitals, has been the target of cutbacks in Washington.
Saying that administrators recognized the need for a restructuring of New York's health-care system to restrain costs, Mr. Sisto complained that the current situation made any planning for the future impossible.
''It is hard to focus on restructuring when you are scrambling to meet payrolls,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (85%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (85%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (85%); MEDICARE (83%); MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOSPITAL ASSN, GREATER NEW YORK; HEALTH CARE FINANCING, COUNCIL ON

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID (TITLE XIX OF FED MEDICARE LEGISLATION); STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FINANCES; HEALTH INSURANCE; HOSPITALS HOSPITALS (94%); BAILOUTS (91%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (85%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); MEDICARE (74%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); MEDICAID (58%); 

PERSON: GUTIS, PHILIP S; RASKE, KENNETH E



492 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Trail;
A Terrific 'Boring' Speech by Dinkins

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN

 BODY:
Even in politics, friends sometimes blurt out the most amazing things. Take Howard Golden, the Brooklyn Borough President and Democratic leader, who rose to the podium at a Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce luncheon yesterday right after David N. Dinkins, the Democratic nominee for New York City mayor, had finished a long speech on economic development.
''It was the most boring speech I have ever heard,'' Mr. Golden declared, ''but it had to be said.''
He went on to explain that Mr. Dinkins had touched on subjects vital to the future of New York City. Later, in a telephone interview, he explained further just what he had meant by boring. 
''I didn't mean that the candidate was boring, but the issues can be boring,'' Mr. Golden said. ''What I meant was that David Dinkins wants people to listen to statistics on homelessness and such - which are critical issues. I think it is great that he doesn't do what his opponent does, which is speak all the time on the glamorous issues, like crime and rape.''
 
'Great City,' Great Flaws
In his first commercial of the general election campaign, to be telecast tonight, Mr. Dinkins is shown standing in a schoolyard, complaining about overcrowded classrooms and drug dealers who lurk in the streets outside. He says the city has been shortchanged in education aid from New York State, and he calls for more discipline in the schools. The message ends with the line: ''A great city and the man who believes in it.''
 
No Tax Rise - Maybe
Mr. Giuliani told the Mortgage Bankers Association yesterday that despite the city's problems, raising taxes would only make them worse. But at a news conference afterward he refused to make an ironclad ''read my lips'' pledge against a tax increase.
''You have got to do all the things you can to avoid a tax increase, but you can't print money,'' Mr. Giuliani told reporters. ''You cannot promise no tax increase under any circumstance. That would be irresponsible.''
Speaking to the bankers, Mr. Giuliani said the city must develop programs to increase revenue and save money through more diligent collection of parking fines, more aggressive prosecution of tax cheats and better monitoring of city contracts through computerization.
A tax increase would only worsen the city's deteriorating state, Mr. Giuliani said, observing, ''You can't force people to live in a city in which there is increasing crime, increasing drugs, deteriorated schools, the worst roads in America, the dirtiest streets in America and one of the highest tax structures and one that promises to be higher.''
 
In Defeat, a Token Race
As expected, Ronald S. Lauder, defeated by Mr. Giuliani in the Republican primary, said in so many words yesterday that he would continue a token campaign as candidate for the Conservative Party - ''as a spokesman for the conservative solutions I've talked about.'' But he said he would not broadcast any television commercials and would refrain from ''discussing personalities and comparing contenders.''
Mr. Lauder formally released his Republican supporters from any obligation to vote for him, although in the news release sent out by his greatly reduced staff, he never mentioned the name of the man who beat him for the party's nomination.
 
The Pencil Campaign
Knocked off the Democratic ballot by a petition challenge, Assemblyman Sal F. Albanese, Democrat of Brooklyn, had to work hard to be nominated in last Tuesday's primary. It cost him 15,000 pencils and forced him to remind voters to spell his name correctly, but yesterday he was declared the winner by the Board of Election, with 6,378 write-in votes.
Actually, that was 6,372 more votes than he really needed, since the write-in candidate with the next highest total - his Republican opponent, Steven Maresca - received only five, and election law says that all you need is one more than your opponent.
To mobilize supporters to do more than pull the lever, Mr. Albanese distributed 15,000 palm cards, with pencils attached, and sent 200 people into his Bay Ridge-Bensonhurst district on Primary Day to make sure people spelled his name right.
Bruce Kaufman, Mr. Albanese's aide, said yesterday that no one had challenged the slight variations on the Assemblyman's name - cases where people dropped one of the e's in his last name or forgot the middle initial. ''They'll count it, as long as it is pretty darn close,'' Mr. Kaufman said.
The Board of Elections, however, did strike out ''Mayor Albanese,'' ruling that it was too far off the mark and more than a spelling error.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (86%); TAX INCREASES (86%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TAX FRAUD (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (68%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); MORTGAGE BANKING (63%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (BORO PRES); BOHLEN, CELESTINE; GOLDEN, HOWARD (BORO PRES) DAVID NORMAN DINKINS (92%); 



493 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 7, Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Alaska Ghost Town May Become a Park

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: KENNECOTT, Alaska, Sept. 20

 BODY:
A half-century ago, Federal officials made their first pitch to add the bright red buildings of this abandoned copper-mill camp, the country's largest ghost town, to the national park system. Several decades and proposals later, the idea is alive again.
Appraisers have finished poking through 40 or so structures built in 1906 for the Kennecott Mines Company, and a contract will be awarded soon to determine the cost of removing any asbestos and industrial chemicals left behind, said Dick Martin, superintendent of Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve, which surrounds this town about 235 miles east of Anchorage. 
The site comprises about 3,000 acres plus buildings owned by Kennecott Copper Corporation, which still operates in Utah. The mining town once had 800 workers. The cost of acquisition and cleanup could be several million dollars, Mr. Martin said.
The first proposal to fold the town into the national park system was made in 1938, he said.
''It came up again in the 40's, and I believe it was discussed again in the 50's,'' he said. ''There were various proposals, like using the tramways for ski areas and the dormitories for hotels, but nothing has happened.''
Kennecott Mines Company took its name from Kennicott Glacier in 1906. But the company misspelled the name. The company's workers may be gone, but many of their books and papers still lie on desks and most of the machinery that they used to crush and extract ore remains.
From 1911 to 1935, the Kennecott deposit produced 4.6 million tons of ore, which was refined into 591,535 tons of copper and 9 million ounces of silver worth some $300 million.
The discovery of vast copper deposits in Chile and economic dislocations brought by the Depression killed Kennecott, even though millions of tons of high-grade ore may still lie within Bonanza Ridge, which rises several thousand feet behind the processing facilities.
But it is history that makes the site so valuable, Mr. Martin said.
''There's always going to be some great value here for the public, even if some of these buildings fall down,'' he said. ''The more that are standing the better, clearly. But there always will be a great deal of value because of the people who lived here, the scenic value and what they did here.''
It might be possible to make the area safe for visitors to roam outside the buildings, he said, but it would be ''simply beyond our ability'' to restore all the buildings to safe condition.
Only a few tourists now walk or ski the trails leading to mines with names like Bonanza, Mother Lode and Jumbo. Visitors either fly to the 4,000-foot gravel airstrip at McCarthy, five miles down a rutted road, or drive the scenic Edgerton Highway to its terminus at the Kennicott River. There, they pull themselves hand-over-hand on a cable tram that separates the road from the wilderness.
At 13.2 million acres, Wrangell-St. Elias National Park and Preserve is the nation's largest national park. It abounds in wildlife - buffalo, caribou, moose, wolves, brown and black bear, among others. It also includes nine of the 16 highest mountains in the United States. Mount Wrangell is an active volcano, with steam and the odor of sulfur wafting near its summit.
Miners still extract gold and silver from the park, which is six times the size of Yellowstone but, because of its remoteness, has fewer visitors in a year than Yellowstone has on a summer weekend.
More than a million acres within the park are privately owned. The Kennicott Glacier Lodge would not be part of the ghost-town purchase, Mr. Martin said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;KENNECOTT (ALASKA)

SUBJECT: PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; NYTRAVEL NATIONAL PARKS (92%); COPPER MINING (78%); COPPER INDUSTRY (78%); ASBESTOS (76%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (71%); SKIING FACILITIES (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (65%); 



494 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
House Democrats proposed raising the top income tax rate. The plan, to be voted on by the House next week, is a political gamble to defeat the capital gains tax cut promoted by Bush and approved last week by the Ways and Means Committee. [Page A1.] 
 
The Brady plan to provide relief to the most indebted nations is forcing new losses at American banks. The losses come as the banks set aside more funds for the day when they must accept less than full repayment on their loans to the debtor nations. [D1.]
 
Delegates to the World Energy Conference, in a striking shift of focus, have one dominant concern: the environment. [D1.] Hydro-Quebec said it had no more power it can sell to the U.S. this century, beyond contracts already signed or nearing approval. [D9.]
 
The nation's economy is advancing at a slow to modest rate, with substantial regional variation, the Federal Reserve said. [D5.]
 
New monthly retail sales data are being issued that are said to be more accurate than those reported by the Government. [D13.]
 
COMPANIES
 
Adobe Systems will reveal its closely guarded corporate crown jewel - its technology for generating different styles of type on computer screens and drawing them on laser printers. [D1.]
 
American Home Products temporarily suspended operations of a generic drug unit as it undergoes Federal inspection. [D1.]
 
The new chief executive of Campeau U.S. will be a financial, not a retailing, executive, said Robert Campeau. [D13.] Campeau's ambitions aroused deep concern from the start. [D13.]
 
A rookie film maker has tweaked G.M. for the plight of the unemployed, and his documentary has scored a hit. [D1.]
 
CBS is scoring ratings successes that the network believes are attributable, at least in part, to extra attention from K Mart shoppers. [D20.] CBS's entertainment division announced a radical change in the system of commissioning series pilots. [D20.]
 
Pan Am was fined $630,000 by the F.A.A., which said the airline had violated securities rules the day a jetliner was downed by a bomb over Scotland. [A20.] American Airlines planned an increase in two of its discount fares, but other carriers may not follow. [A25.]
 
General Electric was sued by New York State to force it to clean up an area surrounding the Rensselaer County dump. [B3.]
 
Rhone-Poulenc agreed to pay $1.3 billion to buy an American and a British specialty chemicals operation. [D5.]
 
IMA Holding is talking with American Medical, which it has offered to buy, to resolve tax uncertainties in U.S. legislation. [D5.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
France introduced the world's fastest train in commercial service. The nation's top airline fears it will lose passengers. [D1.]
 
The European Community has vowed not to discriminate against American manufacturers on memory chips. [D2.]
 
Mexico will sell its majority stake in the nation's troubled telephone monopoly to private interests. [D5.]
 
MARKETS
 
Stock prices slipped in another cautious session. The Dow dropped 3.42 points, to 2,683.89.[D10.] Prices of Treasury securities sank as dealers marked down issues to attract investors. [D17.]
 
The dollar slumped in skittish trading, buffeted by rumors that the Fed was intervening. [D18.] Gasoline and heating oil futures surged.[D18.] Yields of money market mutual funds showed little or no change for the week. [D8.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
The F.T.C., to get raiders to obey the law, is considering plans to relax or tighten disclosure rules. Talking Deals. [D2.]
 
Action Auto Rental, a Wall Street darling, showed it was not immune to the industry's woes. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D10.]
 
Environmentalism has emerged as a hot topic, with several publishers betting on a mass-market magazine. Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ADBE (NASDAQ) (68%); ADB (FRA) (68%); PFZ (LSE) (55%); PFE (NYSE) (55%); GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (68%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (55%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (68%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); HYDRO-QUEBEC (56%); PFIZER INC (55%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); RHONE-POULENC SA (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); AIRLINES (85%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); LANDFILLS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); SALES FIGURES (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); DEBTOR NATIONS (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); RETAIL SALES (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (65%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); CHEMICALS (63%); GENERIC DRUGS (53%); MEMORY CHIPS (50%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERT JOSEPH CAMPEAU (54%); 



495 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: Brady Plan Is Forcing Bank Loss

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The wrap-up last week of an accord to provide debt relief to Mexico is forcing a new round of losses at major American banks.
The accord between Mexico and its lending banks was the first under the plan devised by Secretary of the Treasury Nicholas F. Brady to provide relief to the most indebted of the world's less developed nations.
The losses occur as the banks set aside more funds in preparation for the day when they must accept less than full repayment on their loans to the troubled debtor nations.
 
Plan at Chase Manhattan
The Chase Manhattan Corporation, the third-largest banking concern in the country, said yesterday that it expected a loss of $1.12 billion this quarter, largely because it was setting aside $1.15 billion to be held in reserve for possible losses on its $6.2 billion of loans to less developed countries. On Monday, the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation added $950 million to its loss reserves, and said it would lose $775 million this quarter. 
Increases in a bank's reserves for losses on its loans are immediately subtracted from its earnings.
Willard C. Butcher, chairman of Chase, said the Brady initiative had resulted in ''increased pressure on banks to reduce their claims'' and, at the same time, had ''increased the resistance on the part of some lesser developed nations to meet their contractual obligations'' to repay their debts.
The Brady plan, which was announced in March, is aimed at reducing the $1.3 trillion in debts of the less developed countries. Earlier, bankers focused their efforts on providing new loans to those nations.
 
Pact With Mexico a Signal
Mr. Butcher and John F. McGillicuddy, chairman of Manufacturers Hanover, both said that the loan agreement with Mexico was a clear signal that they needed to begin setting aside more reserves. The agreement was announced in principle in July, when Mexico had $100 billion in foreign debt, but its final terms were completed last week.
The pact, which the Bush Administration urged the banks to adopt, requires that banks choose between making new loans to Mexico and accepting a 35 percent reduction in the value of their loans. Few banks, however, are likely to accept the option of making new loans because of the increasing risks of loss.
Because there are large debtor countries whose condition is more dire than that of Mexico, many analysts have said banks might have to accept reductions of even more than 35 percent with those nations.
Bank loans to Brazil, for instance, which has $110 million of foreign debt and missed a $1.6 billion interest payment earlier this week, are today trading at about 30 cents on the dollar. Loans to Argentina, which has $60 billion of debt and has not paid interest in nearly 18 months, are trading at about 18 cents on the dollar. Banks and securities firms have begun trading these loans in the last few years as some banks, eager to rid themselves of these loans, become willing to sell at reduced prices.
In June, banks were required to declare a loss on 20 percent of their Argentine loans, and many analysts expect regulators to require additional write-offs in coming months.
 
Talks With Venezuela
Negotiations are now under way with the Philippines and Venezuela to provide debt relief under the Brady plan.
Since 1987, when Citibank added $3 billion to its reserves as pressure to recognize the deteriorating quality of the loans was building, the big banks in New York have set aside funds to cover roughly 30 percent of their loans to less developed countries. But because of the Mexican agreement, bankers are raising their estimates of the amount of reserves they should have to cover future losses. They noted that the Mexican agreement had led to cries for relief from other countries not in the same serious straits as Mexico.
The reserve at Manufacturers Hanover, at 22 percent, was the lowest of those at the large banks until Monday, when the bank announced plans to raise its coverage to 36 percent. Chase, which was at about 30 percent, said yesterday that it planned to raise its reserve fund to 46 percent.
To rebuild its finances after the loss, Chase said it planned to sell $500 million of new stock in coming weeks. Manufacturers Hanover also announced plans for a $500 million stock offering.
 
British Banks at 50% Level
Many analysts expect that other banks will follow suit in raising their reserves. The four leading British banks earlier this year raised their reserves to 50 percent of their troubled foreign loans, a level that is also maintained by many regional American banks.
''Other banks are going to look and say that, if Manufacturers Hanover can do it, we can too,'' said Christopher T. Mahoney, an analyst at Moody's Investors Service. ''Clearly, banks like Morgan Guaranty and Bankers Trust have the financial capacity to make larger reserves.''
Analysts who asked not to be identified said that the Chemical Bank was another candidate for an increase in its reserves. Chemical has reserves covering about 27 percent of its $4.6 billion of outstanding loans to less developed countries. Whether Chemical would also suffer a loss would depend on how much the bank might add to its reserves.
The amount of the loans covered by reserves will vary from bank to bank because some banks lent more to the most troubled countries. But an unusually low level of reserves relative to loans discourages buyers of bank stocks because they worry that some time in the future, when major debt negotiations are completed, the bank will be required to increase the reserves and possibly take a loss.
By increasing the reserves now, banks may be reassuring shareholders that it is less likely they will have to do so in the future.
Because traders and investors had been expecting announcements similar to that of Manufacturers Hanover, Chase stock rose $1 shortly before 3 P.M. when it announced a special 4 P.M. meeting. The stock ended the day up $1.625, to $39.50 a share. Manufacturers Hanover stock, which rose $2.25 on Tuesday, following its announcement, fell 12.5 cents yesterday. $15 Billion Set Aside in 1987 The latest round of increased reserves to cover possible losses is not likely to be as large as in 1987, when banks set aside about $15 billion in reserves, said Robert T. Litan, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. ''Insolvency of major banks is not one of the ramifications of increased reserves,'' Mr. Litan said. ''But there is no question that reserves have been insufficient at many banks.''
Now that the ice has been broken in a new round, Mark Alpert, an analyst at Bear, Stearns & Company, said that ''the market is expecting these moves; it is a good time for banks to act.''
Not all bankers agree additonal reserves are needed. At Citibank, officials have consistently declined to add to the reserve since 1987.
John S. Reed, Citibank's chairman, said at a meeting of investment analysts last week that, ''from a practical business view,'' he was comfortable with the current level of reserves. Citibank's reserves of $2.6 billion, or almost 30 percent, to cover possible losses on nearly $8.9 billion of loans to less developed countries ''adequately cover the economic risk on those loans,'' he said.
 
Chase Stock Up $1.625
Other developments announced by Chase included cutbacks in its securities trading in London and New York and a large loss from the write-off of real estate loans at a troubled subsidiary bank in Phoenix.
By withdrawing completely from the market for British Government bonds, and reducing its activities in the American Treasury and mortgage-backed markets, Chase said it would suffer a one-time loss after taxes of $25 million but would increase 1990 earnings by $40 million. In London and New York, about 40 employees will be laid off, Mr. Butcher said.
The Arizona bank, which Chase bought in 1986 for $75 million, has been a problem almost from the day it was acquired, losing $42 million in 1988 and $30 million in the first six months of this year. Recognizing that the bank's real estate loans are worth only about 50 percent of their original value will result in a one-time after-tax cost to Chase of $85 million. But in the future, the absence of those loans should raise earnings by about $45 million a year.
About $155 million of loans from the Arizona bank will be set aside in a special company, whose sole job will be to sell the assets, while the remaining Chase Bank of Arizona continues with its consumer banking and lending to small businesses.
Chase officials told stock analysts that the package of actions would add about $205 million to their earnings in 1990, not counting the profit to be generated from the additional $500 million of capital to be raised from the stock sale. They said $75 million more of stock would be sold in 1990 through more generous features of a stock dividend and repurchase plan offered to shareholders, such as a 5 percent discount on purchases of new shares.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MEXICO; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); DEBTOR NATIONS (89%); FOREIGN LENDING (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (69%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; BRADY, NICHOLAS F (SEC) WILLARD CARLISLE 'WILLARD C' BUTCHER (55%); 



496 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Environment Dominates 91-Nation Energy Talks

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MONTREAL, Sept. 20

 BODY:
In a striking shift of focus, the 3,400 delegates gathered here from 91 countries to discuss the world energy picture have one dominant concern: the environment. Price and supply, the traditional focus of energy suppliers, have almost been squeezed off the agenda.
The delegates represent some of the world's most prominent experts on oil, coal, natural gas, shale oil, hydroelectricity, nuclear power, photovoltaic power, solar thermal power and even peat moss. But in most of the 160 technical papers presented here, the dozens of panel discussions and the major addresses, the worry at this triennial event has shifted from oil embargoes and declining reserves of fossil fuels to urban smog, acid rain and, above all, global warming.
The question, clearly, is no longer where the fuel will come from - one study released here noted a 30 percent increase in estimated oil reserves in the last three years - but how to use it safely. 
The producers have cause for worry. Industrial emissions of carbon dioxide, which scientists believe must be limited to slow global warming, could be 70 percent higher than current levels by 2020, assuming moderate economic growth, according to a major study released today by the World Energy Conference.
 
Changes in the Atmosphere
''It is unambiguous and beyond doubt that we are changing the composition of the atmosphere by a measurable and important amount,'' said Lord Marshall of Goring, chairman of Britain's Central Electric Generating Board,'' in a keynote address. The program includes an outline for a panel discussion on global warming, listing topics for discussion, but begins by saying, ''The existence of a greenhouse effect is not to be debated.''
For such a huge group of energy suppliers to put price, supply and production technology in second place is surprising, many of those present said. John Wakeham, Britain's Secretary of State for Energy, contrasted the concern now with the belief by Western nations in the 1970's that oil and other fuels were dwindling. That, he said, ''has been revealed as a gloomy fantasy and one of the most spectacularly mistaken forecasts of recent history.''
But even after the oil glut of 1986 drowned the talk of shortage, the talk did not shift to the environment. ''You would never have heard this three years ago,'' said Elihu Bergman, executive director of Americans for Energy Independence, a conservation organization based in Washington. ''This conference is symbolically legitimizing what we have known in the States: environmental policy is driving energy policy.''
A speech by Lee M. Thomas, the former administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, reinforced the point. Mr. Thomas detailed decisions ranging from handling of the wastes from oil drilling to requiring anti-pollution equipment on power plants that cast his agency in the role of making energy policy. In another speech, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney made a similar point. ''Environmental sensitivity and economic growth, fueled by energy, go hand in hand,'' he said. ''We no longer have the luxury of trying to have one without the other.''
 
Growth in Energy Use
The carbon dioxide study, assembled by 30 experts from 18 countries and 9 international organizations, assumed only a small increase in each person's energy use over the period, but a near-doubling of the population in the third world, from 3.6 billion in 1985 to 6.3 billion in 2020.
The conference also released a separate study hinting that the reserves of fossil fuels are plentiful. A triennial study of resources found that global recoverable reserves of hard coal are up 80 percent since 1986, oil reserves are up 30 percent and natural gas is up 14 percent.
What was less clear than supply was where energy policy was being driven. Lord Marshall's prescription was nuclear power, a view that did not create a clear consensus here. Another conflict was between delegates from the third world and the developed countries over who would have to improve energy efficiency to minimize releases of carbon dioxide and other gases.
Chauncey Starr, the founder and former president of the Electric Power Research Institute of Palo Alto, Calif., pointed out that each North American uses, on average, seven times as much energy as people of the third world. For ''a huge portion of the world population,'' he said, the primary concerns are ''food supply and enough fuel for cooking and warmth.'' If that population increases its energy consumption only modestly - 2.3 percent a year, Mr. Starr said - the combination of population growth and higher consumption would quadruple world energy demand in 75 years.
Mr. Starr and others suggested investing in efficiency, especially in the third world; for example, Mr. Starr said, the efficiency of cooking over an open stove is 3 percent, versus 20 percent in a clay oven, a percentage increase far greater than that available in the industrial world.
But that focus may be wrong, said another delegate, Jassim al-Gumer, director of the economics department at the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Counties, in Kuwait. ''They have such little to spend on pollution, or energy,'' he said of the nonindustrial countries. India, he said, uses a barrel of oil a year for each person, Brazil 3 and the United States 45. ''How much pollution is coming from the 45 barrels versus the one barrel?''
For the developing countries that aspire to use more energy, limits on use to slow global warming seem unfair. ''Industrialized countries should recognize that they are to carry the lion's share of the total burden because they consume 80 percent of world energy resources,'' said Bong Suh Lee, the South Korean Minister of Energy Resources.
More than unfair, it may be impossible, said the British Secretary of State for Energy, John Wakeham. In any international agreement to cut emissions from burning fossil fuels, he said, ''We have to recognize that some backs are broader than others; that costs that are an inconvenience in the developed countries may make the difference between life and death in the third world.''
 
Allocating the Burden
But allocating the burden, experts said here, would be difficult. Speaking for the United States, W. Henson Moore, the Deputy Secretary of Energy, sounded distinctly unwilling to take too large a role, or to take substantial action before everyone else agreed. ''The good done by one country is offset by the increased damage done by another,'' he said.
But the United States and the rest of the world would feel a substantial effect from third-world energy growth, according to the study on energy growth, ''Global Energy Perspectives 2000-2020.''
Whether the level of carbon dioxide output represents an unrealistic constraint on the scenario painted by the study was not clear to the participants. Klaus Brendow, the director of the energy commission of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, noted that the scenario assumed that fossil fuels would provide about 80 percent of energy in 2020, down from 88 percent in 1985. ''The risks of a global warming resulting from such a bias are obvious,'' he said, calling for more research into renewable energy.
The scenario established in the study predicted that with moderate economic growth, third world use of coal would triple between 1985 and 2020; use of oil would double, and use of natural gas would more than triple. Worldwide, the study said, coal use would be up by 51 percent, oil by 66 percent and natural gas by 58 percent.
It also assumed that the use of nuclear power would more than triple, to account for 7 or 8 percent of energy supplies, compared with 4 now. An estimate by the organization in 1983 had put nuclear at 12 percent by 2020, but it was scaled back because construction has dropped off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (86%); CANADA (74%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (74%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MONTREAL (QUEBEC)

SUBJECT: ENERGY AND POWER; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES; ENVIRONMENT CLIMATOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); SMOG (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (72%); OIL EXTRACTION (71%); ACID RAIN (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (55%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L



497 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: World's Fastest Train Makes Debut in France

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Sept. 20

 BODY:
A sleek silver and blue train known as the T.G.V. Atlantique sped from Paris to LeMans at 186 miles an hour today, as France introduced the world's fastest train to be put into commercial service. The train is so fast that France's principal domestic airline worries that it will lose passengers to the rail line.
The luxuriously appointed Train a Grande Vitesse, run by France's state-owned railway, connects Paris with cities on France's Atlantic coast, chopping the time for some trips nearly in half. The 125-mile trip to Le Mans, for example, takes 55 minutes, compared with 1 hour 40 minutes on other trains. Next year the T.G.V. will begin service to Tours in the Loire Valley and points south.
''The train has the potential of going 360 kilometers an hour,'' or 223 miles an hour, said Bernard Gondouin, spokesman for Altsthom, a subsidiary of Compagnie Generale d'Electricite, which built the train. ''But it would be unwise to make such a large jump in speed right now because it might scare away a lot of the public.'' 
The 490-ton electric train draws its power from eight 1,500-horsepower three-phase motors that are 40 percent more powerful than those on France's eight-year-old Paris-Lyons train, which has a maximum speed of 167 miles an hour. But, the manufacturer said, the increased speed reflects a refinement of exisiting technology rather than a technological breakthrough, and it is helped by the train's streamlined design, which minimizes wind resistance.
Although some passenger organizations protested because the train's prices will be 5 to 47 percent higher than current train tickets, French officials were crowing about the new train today because high-speed rail service is one of the few sectors in which France is the world's leader. Its trains far outpace the 130-mile-an-hour Tokyo-to-Osaka bullet train.
Prime Minister Michel Rocard, who spoke at the inauguration, hailed the T.G.V. as ''a great technical, commercial and financial success.''
 
Global Contracts Sought
French officials hope the new train will improve the nation's chances to win multibillion-dollar contracts to supply high-speed trains for a Miami-Tampa, Fla., route, a Montreal-Toronto run and a Seoul-Pusan line in South Korea. Transportation experts say high-speed trains can be more efficient than airlines at distances of 175 to 450 miles.
The French also hope their new train will be chosen over a German competitor for the high-speed rail network to be set up in 1993 to link Paris, Frankfurt, Brussels and, with the English Channel tunnel, London.
''Europe, an area that is densely populated and where distances traveled remain moderate, is particularly suited for fast rail links,'' said Jacques Fournier, chairman of France's Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer, the state railroad company. ''France has taken an important lead in this area.''
His company invested $3 billion in new tracks and trains for the Atlantic route. It hopes to earn back the investment in a decade by attracting 22 million passengers a year on the line.
Atter Le Mans, the train will travel on renovated track to Rennes, the capital of the Brittany region, and to Brest and Nantes, two important coastal ports. The 237-mile trip to Nantes will fall to 1 hour 59 minutes from the current 2 hours 55 minutes.
Jean-Marie Metzler, sales director of the state rail company, estimates that the T.G.V. Atlantique will win over 40 percent of the 450,000 passengers who took planes for the Paris-Nantes trips last year.
''It's a competitor, that's clear,'' agreed a spokesman for Air Inter, France's principal domestic airline. ''We will probably feel a loss of customers between Nantes and Paris.''
A plane ticket costs $90, while a first-class Paris-Nantes ticket on the T.G.V. will cost $49.08 to $61.38, depending on the time of day, and second-class will range from $33.38 to $38.32. A one-way ticket to LeMans will cost $31.84 to $44.15 for first class and $22 to $26.95 for second class.
 
Tunnels for Deer Crossings
French officials say that the T.G.V. is environmentally sound. There are deer crossings built underneath the track in certain places, and there are sound barriers to protect nearby houses. In addition, in Vouvray, near Tours, a tunnel was built, with rubber cushions, to protect that town's vineyards and wine cellars as the T.G.V. rumbles through.
The train officially goes into service on Sunday, but in an inaugural run today for dignitaries and journalists, the train whizzed smoothly and quietly through hayfields and cornfields at 300 kilometers, or 186 miles, an hour. The ride was so smooth that it was easy to write on a note pad - and wine bottles did not rock on lap trays when lunch was served.
Among the train's amenities are telephones, small compartments for business meetings and a nursery with a ledge to change diapers and a machine to warm baby bottles. The train, which has ten cars rather than the eight of the Paris-Lyons train, can carry 485 passengers.
Paralleling the superhighway at some points, the train easily left behind France's speeding drivers, who often drive at 110 miles an hour. The one cause for passenger complaints was the sudden pressure changes when the train sped through tunnels.
 
'Just 2 Hours From Paris'
City and village officials in western France welcome the high-speed train. ''It should mean a lot to us,'' said Christine Angoujard, director of economic development in Rennes, a city of 200,000 people. ''Because we will be just two hours from Paris by train, we hope a lot of companies based in Paris will open branch offices here. We also think it should be a shot in the arm to tourism.''
French rail officials are confident the new line will be profitable. Last year, the Paris-Lyons line had 17 million passengers and net earnings of more than $100 million on $681 million in revenues.
Mr. Metzler, the sales director, said the French National Railway expected similar results from the T.G.V. Atlantique next year - $700 million in revenues with profit margins of 12 percent. Railroad experts say high-speed rail links can be profitable as long as they attract at least 10 million passengers a year.
''High-speed rail is one of the few growth areas in heavy electrical engineering,'' said Stephen Parker, an analyst with UBS Phillips & Drew, a London borkerage.
Despite the train's speed, Air Inter officials are optimistic that they will not lose many Paris-Bordeaux passengers when the T.G.V. begins serving that route next year. The train will cut the time for that 360-mile journey, now 4 hours 8 mintues, to just under 3 hours. The plane takes only an hour.
Transportation experts say that with today's crowded airports, it is hard for airlines to compete with trains when a rail trip takes 2 hours or less, but far easier when the train trip takes 3 hours or more.
 
Double-Decker Planned
For Alsthom, manufacturer of the T.G.V., the biggest contract on the horizon involves South Korea, which is expected to begin seeking official bids to build tracks and supply high-speed engines and trains for a 185-mile link between Seoul and Pusan.
''We're designing a double-decker T.G.V. to serve that route,'' said Alsthom's Mr. Gondouin.
Alsthom's main competitors for the Korean contract are a German consortium led by Siemens A.G. and a Japanese consortium that includes Hitachi and Kawasaki.
Rail officials say that Canada may also seek bids next year for a high-speed train. They see a Florida route as a longer-range project, which state officials are still debating.
Some trains have reached faster speeds in experiments, but are not yet in service. The German Intercontinental Express consortium reached 252 miles an hour in May 1988, while a French train, also built by Alsthom, surpassed that last December, reaching 254 miles an hour. Magnetic levitation trains, which hover above the rails, have reached even higher speeds in tests, but are expensive to build.

GRAPHIC: photo of the T.G.V. Atlantique train in France; map showing trains route

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (93%); ALU (NYSE) (93%); ALU (BIT) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (93%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (97%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPE (73%); ENGLAND (67%); CANADA (66%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CENTRE-VAL DE LOIRE, FRANCE (73%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (72%); ONTARIO, CANADA (66%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); LYON, FRANCE (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (66%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (51%); 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: TGV ATLANTIQUE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; PARIS (FRANCE); LEMANS (FRANCE)

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; NYTRAVEL HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); TRAINS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); AIRLINES (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (75%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (61%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN



498 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: A Film Tweaks G.M. Over Jobless

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Just as the General Motors Corporation was about to forget its public relations headaches of the 1980's, a rookie film maker appears to have scored a highly acclaimed hit with a documentary that tweaks the auto maker for the plight of the unemployed.
Michael Moore, the film's director and a self-described critic of the nation's economic system, has focused his lens on Flint, Mich., his hometown and G.M.'s birthplace. But instead of producing an anti-capitalist screed, which might easily have escaped public notice or been dismissed by critics, Mr. Moore made a parody, mocking G.M., as well as the efforts of President Reagan, the singer Pat Boone, the Rev. Robert Schuller and others to console and uplift the city's unemployed.
 
Stalked by Film Crew
The film's title, ''Roger and Me,'' refers to the chairman of General Motors, Roger B. Smith, who has suffered his share of public trials, contending with the billionaire investor Ross Perot, disgruntled auto dealers and fickle customers. To confront G.M.'s top executive on the company's decision to close plants in Flint, Mr. Moore and his film crew stalked Mr. Smith at the chairman's supposed haunts: the Grosse Pointe yacht club, the Detroit Athletic Club, the 14th floor of the G.M. building. They were turned away. But Mr. Moore cornered Mr. Smith at the company's Christmas gathering. 
A General Motors spokesman said that the company had never received a request for an interview with Mr. Smith, despite Mr. Moore's contention that he sent several letters to the company. In a statement, General Motors conceded that it had realigned operations in many locations to become more competitive, but said the effect of such changes appeared magnified in Flint because the company has its largest operations there. The auto maker also pointed out that by concentrating on ''the negative'' in Flint Mr. Moore failed to mention that G.M. has an annual payroll in that city of $2.5 billion.
Critics who have seen the film describe it as hilarious. It broke attendance records at the Telluride, Colo., film festival, won the top award at the Toronto film festival and is scheduled to be shown at the New York Film Festival on Sept. 27. Susan Stark of The Detroit News and others have predicted it will be nominated for an Oscar.
The film's black humor springs from the contrast between the bleakness of Flint's unemployment problem and what are portrayed as hopelessly superficial attempts to do something about it. In one scene, Miss Michigan glides by on a float and in the background are boarded-up stores. In another, an industrial development official boasts about the salvation offered by a factory that makes a lint-removal device.
 
Reagan's Treat
''Roger and Me'' also contains footage of President Reagan going to Flint to treat a dozen unemployed auto workers to a pizza; one later said on camera that the President had suggested a move to Texas as a cure for unemployment.
Mr. Moore, a counterculture figure who briefly edited the magazine Mother Jones, is the first to acknowledge that ''Roger and Me'' makes no pretense of being fair. It does not make a factual, logical case that General Motors deserves blame for the woes of the unemployed. Instead, he said in an interview, he hopes that when viewers stop laughing they will become angry and demand that corporations and unions accept more responsibility when people are thrown out of work.
From G.M.'s perspective, the film's celebrity comes at a most inconvenient time: In recent weeks, the Buick division, based in Flint, has been basking in some unusual media acclaim because its LeSabre model received high ratings for quality from J. D. Power & Associates. The influential marketing research group also awarded high marks for quality to the Buick City manufacturing complex in Flint.
And General Motors can point to some expanded employment opportunities at its plants in Flint, despite the decline in employment to 49,000 from a peak of 79,000 a decade ago.

GRAPHIC: photos of Roger B. Smith; Michael Moore (NYT/G. Paul Burnett)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ROGER AND ME (MOVIE)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (52%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FLINT (MICH)

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR; AUTOMOBILES MOVIE FILMING (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FESTIVALS (87%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); CHRISTMAS (64%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P; MOORE, MICHAEL; SMITH, ROGER B RONALD REAGAN (73%); 



499 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Europe Vows No Bias Against U.S. Chips

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills, said today that the European Community had assured her that it would not discriminate against American manufacturers in setting rules of origin for computer memory chips.
The assurances, related to directives that Brussels is preparing to set up an integrated European market by the end of 1992, calm an issue that had threatened to escalate into a critical trans-Atlantic quarrel.
Mrs. Hills said here that she had received the assurances from European commissioners and officials during a six-nation tour last week.
The Europeans, she said, told her they would now treat semiconductors made in Europe, in the Silicon Valley or elsewhere in California ''as if they were the same.'' 
 
Concerns on TV Code
But Mrs. Hills continued to express concern about another European initiative, primarily sponsored by France, that would discriminate against American television programming on Europe's airwaves.
After postponing action in June because of American pressure, the European Council of Ministers is scheduled to vote next month on the Television Without Frontiers Directive, which would require that a ''majority proportion'' of broadcast time be reserved for European programs.
American chip producers have been caught in the backwash of complaints by European industry against the purported ''dumping'' of Japanese office machines and other products containing semiconductors.
To attack the Japanese, the Europeans altered some customs rules that have had the effect of subjecting American chip producers to a 14 percent duty, while United States chips had entered Europe duty-free.
 
'Fortress Europe'
This touched off protests from American industry, which contended that the Europeans had intended to use market integration as the rationale for creating an economic ''Fortress Europe'' that would discriminate against the rest of the world.
Mrs. Hills said she returned from her tour of the European capitals last weekend convinced that the community ''really doesn't want a resurgence of the view of the notion of Fortress Europe sailing across the U.S.''
The Semiconductor Industry Association, an industry group based in Cupertino, Calif., issued a guarded comment about the assurances. ''If Mrs. Hills feels the assurances will not lead to discrimination, that is great,'' said Jeanne Alford, the organization's director of communications. ''However, we will be following the issues with Europe very closely.''
The Hills trip, the industry officials said, is being followed up by bilateral discussions at the technical level to insure that the principle of nondiscrimination is applied to the specifics of customs procedures.
''The proof of Mrs. Hills's assurances will be in whether the bilateral talks make progress,'' said R. Michael Gadbaw, the Washington counsel for the semiconductor trade association.
 
Another Conflict Solved
Mrs. Hills said the European Community had quietly resolved another conflict threatening the harmony of Atlantic economic relations.
This involved customs rules set earlier this year based on assertions that the Ricoh Company, a Japanese copier maker, was trying to avoid 20 percent European dumping duties by assembling copiers in California and shipping them to Europe.
The community's rules, based on what the United States regarded as a departure from the norm in identifying the country of origin of an imported product, have apparently been quietly shelved, and Ricoh copiers from California are now coming into Europe as before, Mrs. Hills said.
Efforts to resolve trans-Atlantic trade disagreements before they become big confrontations are being given a high priority by the Atlantic partners so attention will not be diverted from the Uruguay Round of global trade talks, which are expected to be completed next year.
Washington and Brussels are hoping for freer trade in financial and other services and for greater protection for patents, copyrights and other intellectual property to emerge from the global liberalization talks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS.COM INC (58%); AMERICAN MANUFACTURERS EXPORT GROUP (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SEMICONDUCTORS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); SEMICONDUCTORS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (78%); MEMORY CHIPS (77%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (70%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; HILLS, CARLA A (TRADE REPR)



500 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Economy Is Expanding Slowly, Fed Says

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The nation's economy is advancing at a slow to modest rate with substantial regional variation, the Federal Reserve Board said today in its ''beige book'' on current economic conditions.
The report, prepared for an Oct. 3 meeting of the Fed's top economic policy makers, said consumer spending, construction and manufacturing activity were mixed, while agricultural conditions continued to improve.
The findings appeared consistent with a number of recent economic indicators that have shown the economy in a holding pattern of modest growth and low inflation - the so-called soft landing favored by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman. 12 District Banks Surveyed The current report was compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis based on business and economic surveys conducted by the 12 district Fed banks before Sept. 12. 
The Fed gave no overall survey of the nation's inflation outlook, although five of the 12 Fed districts reported that raw material prices had eased for manufacturers, while another district reported higher prices.
Many of the Fed districts said in their separate summaries that growth was modest, sluggish, mixed or soft, with the general direction decidedly unclear.
The 12th district of San Francisco stood alone in a report of healthy growth in the West, supported by robust consumer spending, stable manufacturing, strong exports and good crop yields. Expectations for growth are rising, it added.
Atlanta, the sixth Fed district, said that weakness in business activity had abated and expectations had brightened for the rest of the year. The second district of New York also found recent signs of strength.
 
Sluggish Growth in St. Louis
In contrast, St. Louis reported sluggish growth, with no change in sight, while Philadelphia said that manufacturing continued to soften in a climate of modest growth.
The varied pattern of economic growth was echoed in the summary provided by the Fed in the opening pages of its ''beige book'' report.
''Consumer spending has been mixed, but most districts report strong sales of apparel and cars recently,'' the Fed said. ''Manufacturing conditions are generally satisfactory or improving in the nation's Southern and Western regions, but some weakening was noted in New England and much of the Midwest.''
The 12 districts reported much variation in the strength of construction and real estate, although several districts said falling mortgage rates in the summer stimulated the market.
In a brief summary of the labor market, the Fed said that three districts, Boston, St. Louis and San Francisco, reported a shortage of workers.
The Fed also noted that a surge in auto sales had helped pare auto inventories. Since then, the expiration of financing incentives has caused car sales to drop back, based on the industry's early September figures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); MIDWEST USA (71%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); INFLATION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (85%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



501 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Prices Slip, With Dow Falling 3.42

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Stock prices slipped yesterday in another cautious and slow trading session.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 3.42 points, to 2,683.89, as the 726 declining stocks outpaced the 697 advances.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange contracted to 136.6 million shares, from 141.6 million on Tuesday. 
In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dipped 0.08, to 346.47, while the New York Stock Exchange composite index slipped 0.01, to 192.45.
''The market was possibly awaiting the outcome of the meeting between the United States and its chief economic allies in Washington this weekend,'' said Robert Ritter, chief technical analyst at Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company. ''Bonds prices also were down sharply.''
Mr. Ritter said that the market appeared to be consolidating following the summer rally in which it added more than 300 points on the Dow. ''Currently less than 5 percent from its peak, the stock market has reacted very well to the recent junk bond fiasco,'' he said.
Among individual issues, Compaq Computer rose 7/8, to 88 1/8, after a Bear, Stearns analyst, Andrew Neff, repeated a ''buy'' recomendation on the stock because of new product announcements expected in the fourth quarter.
 
The Most Active List
Stocks where investors were apparently trying to capture dividends led the most active list. They included the Southeast Banking Corporation, unchanged at 26 1/2 in the No. 1 spot on a volume of 1.6 million shares and in the runner-up position, Portland General Corporation, up 1/8, to 23 7/8, on a turnover of nearly 1.3 million.
Chase rose 1 5/8, to 39 1/2. After the close, Chase announced that it had raised its reserves for losses on loans to developing countries by $2.9 billion, or about 46 percent of its total $6.2 billion of its medium and long-term debt.
Spain Fund soared 7 points, to 28 3/4, and was the Big Board's biggest percentage gainer in active trading. A representative of the company attributed the sharp rise to growing institutional interest in Spain Fund as well as a strong Spanish stock market. At the same time, First Iberian Fund gained 1 3/8, to 12 3/8.
Other international funds that have attracted attention of late also fared well. Thai Fund jumped 2 1/2, to 21 1/4; Italy Fund 3/4, to 10 7/8; Germany Fund 1/2, to 11.
AMR, whose American Airlines subsidiary has raised fares effective next week, rose 2, to 78 1/2.
Active blue chips included Upjohn, off 1/4, to 36 1/8; Syntex added 7/8, to 45 1/2; A.T.&T. slipped 1/8, to 41 7/8, and Bristol-Myers added 1/2, to 49 3/4.
On the American Stock Exchange, the Amex market value index edged up 0.31, to 379.14, while in over-the-counter trading, the Nasdaq composite index dipped 0.33, to 466.72.
In over-the-counter trading, Jaguar P.L.C. added 15/32, to 8 9/32. Ford Motor's European unit disclosed on Tuesday that it was interested in buying as much as 15 percent of the British luxury car manufacturer.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LTS (NYSE MKT) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (66%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (90%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: LADENBURG THALMANN FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (70%); PORTLAND GENERAL CORP (66%); SOUTHEAST BANKING CORP (66%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BONDS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); AIRLINES (60%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H



502 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Retailers Seek More Detailed Sales Data

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
The International Council of Shopping Centers began issuing new monthly retail sales data yesterday that it said would be more accurate and comprehensive than those reported by the United States Government.
In its first report, on 1989's first half, the 27,000-member council said that the West Coast had taken the lead over the East Coast in percentage gains in retail sales of general merchandise, while gains in the South exceeded those of the North. Both shifts are reversals of previous patterns. 
''The South has especially benefitted from spectacular gains in the 'oil patch,' where pent-up demand is finally breaking loose,'' the report said, referring to oil-industry states, like Texas, that have experienced an economic slowdown in recent years.
 
Longer Lag Time
The monthly reports by the council will be issued two to two and a half months after the month being reported, a longer period than the reports of the Census Bureau of the Commerce Department, which usually reports within weeks.
The trade group said that it would buy certain raw data from the Census Bureau that would help it provide sales data that were ''ultimately more accurate than the Government's,'' Isaac Lagnado, the council's research director, said at a meeting yesterday. Mr. Lagnado said that his organization was paying ''six figures'' for the service from the bureau, which several years ago began accepting private-sector assignments.
''We have asked Census to go into an auditing procedure to provide 100 percent reporting as opposed to much of the bureau's projected data taken from a sampling,'' he said.
 
Problem With Revisions
He noted that one problem encountered with the usual pattern of Census Bureau reporting is that the monthly results that are reported are revised the following month when more data become available. ''We will be avoiding that by coming out later with a much larger data base,'' Mr. Lagnado said.
The report that the council yesterday showed that Western states had a 6.3 percent gain in retail sales for the first six months of 1989, compared with the similar period of 1988, that the South Atlantic states had a growth rate of 1.3 percent and that the New England states ''trailed the country'' with a 2 percent sales decline.
In the South, 14 standard metropolitan statistical areas had a sales increase of 11.2 percent in the first six months.
 
Turnaround in Oil States
''Since the oil-dominated economies have suffered through an extended economic contraction,'' the report said, ''a recent turnaround has apparently been sufficient to usher in a wave of consumer spending. This was by far the largest gain in an otherwise lackluster year, considering that the national, median gain was 4.5 percent.''
In the Middle Atlantic states, New York's metropolitan district had a 1.9 percent decline in June and a decline of four-tenths of 1 percent in the six months. The council said that Newark had the region's worst performance in June, while Jersey City had the best both in June and the six months.
The council said that its report covered 125 of the largest United States markets with data obtained by Census Bureau researchers from 6,000 stores. The retailers surveyed account for sales of $110 billion and included national chains, mass merchants and department stores.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WEST USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF SHOPPING CENTERS (91%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHOPPING CENTERS, INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (93%); RETAIL SALES (92%); CENSUS (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); AUDITS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE



503 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 18, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
News of Hurricane Damage Sends Oil and Gasoline Up

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Reports of hurricane damage to a major Caribbean refinery sent gasoline and heating oil futures prices surging on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday.
Late in the day, the Amerada Hess Corporation confirmed rumors that had circulated in the market that its huge St. Croix refinery had been badly damaged by the storm and would be shut down for about 60 days. The refinery, with a capacity of 545,000 barrels a day, supplies markets in the Eastern United States and the Gulf of Mexico. 
The October contract for unleaded gasoline soared 2.07 cents to close at 59.74 cents a gallon after trading as high as 60.20 cents. Heating oil for October delivery jumped 1.60 cents, to 56.55 cents a gallon. Other contract months also had strong gains.
Traders said the strength in product prices helped buoy crude oil prices. The October contract for West Texas Intermediate, the benchmark grade of United States crude oil, rose 8 cents to close at $19.64 a 42-gallon barrel. November crude rose 29 cents, to $19.68, and December jumped 32 cents, to $19.46 a barrel.
Coffee futures prices surged on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York amid developments that at least momentarily appeared to improve the chances for a resumption of export quotas to support coffee prices.
Coffee futures settled 1.88 cents to 3 cents higher, with the contract for delivery in December at 82.55 cents for a pound of green, unroasted coffee.
The market, which had languished for most of the day, surged late in the session on news that President Bush had offered support to President Virgilio Barco of Colombia for a revival of coffee export quotas.
Coffee prices have fallen by about a third, hurting Colombia's economy, since the International Coffee Organization suspended export quotas in July, largely because of Washington's dissatisfaction with the system.
But the market quickly lost interest in the letter from Mr. Bush after learning the President had not altered the United States' previously stated conditions for rejoining the coffee pact: no more sales of coffee to nonmember nations and greater availability of high-quality arabica coffee beans.
The letter was quickly replaced by another ostensibly bullish factor: a report that Jorge Cardenas, president of the Colombia National Coffee Federation, would meet in Washington tomorrow with a United States trade negotiator, Robert Murphy, before both of them travel to London for a two-week meeting of the International Coffee Organization beginning Monday.
But Kim Badenhop, an analyst with Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc., said the Murphy-Cardenas meeting had been planned for some time and predicted the coffee meeting would produce nothing substantial.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HES (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); COLOMBIA (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: HESS CORP (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GASOLINE; PRICES FUTURES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); ENERGY MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (90%); COFFEE (90%); HURRICANES (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (89%); COFFEE & TEA (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (87%); GASOLINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); EXPORT CONTROLS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (55%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 



504 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 18, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Off Amid Rumors; Gold Prices Move Higher

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar slumped in skittish trading yesterday, while gold prices moved higher.
Analysts said the dollar was buffeted by rumors that the Federal Reserve was intervening in the market to push the dollar lower. 
Traders were also troubled by the prospect that the West German central bank, the Bundesbank, would move interest rates higher in that country today. Such a move, unless matched in this country by the Fed, would likely weaken the dollar.
Overseas dealers said Saturday's planned meeting of financial officials from the Group of Seven industrial nations added to traders' qualms. The market was concerned that participants in the meeting might want to see the dollar decline.
In late New York trading, the dollar slipped to 145.10 yen, from 145.85 late Tuesday. The British pound was quoted at $1.5835, up from $1.5710.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's prices, included: 1.93965 West German marks, down from 1.9535; 1.6815 Swiss francs, down from 1.6905; 6.5560 French francs, down from 6.6010; 1,399.00 Italian lire, down from 1,406.50, and 1.18325 Canadian dollars, down from 1.18455.
Gold rose $3.70 an ounce, to $364.90. on the Commodity Exchange in New York.
Gold traded late in London at a bid price of $363.25 an ounce, up from $360.50 late Tuesday. In Zurich, the closing bid price was $363.50, up from $360.50 late Tuesday, and in earlier Hong Kong trading, gold fell 34 cents to close at a bid of $361.42 an ounce.
On the Comex, silver rose 5.8 cents, closing at $5.119 an ounce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SWITZERLAND (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); ZURICH (53%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM GOLD MARKETS (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); SILVER MARKETS (73%); GERMAN MARK (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BRITISH POUND (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (65%); 



505 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Familiar Partisan Banners Unfurl As Fight Over Taxes Takes Shape

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
The lines were drawn in the House today for a bruising fight over taxes, with Democratic leaders scrambling to sell their newly devised plan as a boon to the middle class and Republicans asserting that it was just another tax increase.
Democrats cast the battle as a choice between a Republican capital gains tax cut for the wealthiest people and the Democrats' package of higher taxes on the rich and savings incentives for ''the fellow who carries the lunch bucket,'' in the words of Representative Dan Rostenkowski.
For all the populist oratory, Democrats acknowledged that they faced a tough fight with the Administration and a difficult sales job with their own membership. Republicans, for their part, waded into a familiar fray with an old charge: that Democrats were addicted to taxing.
President Bush said tonight on ABC's ''Prime Time Live'' that he was sticking to his campaign pledges of not raising taxes and cutting the capital gains tax. He said that he would veto the Democratic tax plan, if it passed Congress. 
It was a frenzied, hustling day of political positioning. ''Beginning today, the middle class fights back,'' said Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House majority leader. He made the remarks at a news conference with other House Democrats held to promote the Democratic alternative to the capital gains tax cut backed by the Administration.
Both sides were wooing conservative Southern Democrats like Charles W. Stenholm of Texas, a leader of the so-called boll weevils. Behind the anxiety of the party leadership was their recollection of 1981, when many Democrats defected to support the Reagan tax cuts. ''This is 1981 all over again, and I think it's very important for Democrats to stick together,'' said Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn.
The fight on the House floor next week will involve two very different tax plans. The measure passed by the House Ways and Means Committee last week, which has the support of the Administration, would temporarily cut the maximum tax rate on capital gains to 19.6 percent from 33 percent. It passed the committee with the support of six Democrats, and has the backing of many more on the floor of the House.
The Democratic leadership found itself faced with the prospect of political humiliation: watching a cut in the capital gains tax, which Democrats excoriated during the 1988 campaign, become law with the support of Democrats. This week the leadership came up with an alternative, stitched together to try to win enough votes from the left and the right of the Democratic caucus to defeat the capital gains tax cut.
The plan would raise the marginal tax rate for families making more than $155,000 a year and single people making more than $93,000, thus bringing their marginal rates in line with the rate paid by middle-income people. The marginal rate is the tax paid on the last dollar of income.
The plan also restores a tax deduction for contributions to individual retirement accounts and lets I.R.A. savings be used without penalty for educational expenses and first-time home purchases. Money raised by increasing the top marginal tax rate would be applied to reducing the Federal deficit.
Republicans today gleefully seized on one aspect of the Democratic plan: the fact that it included higher taxes. Representative Newt Gingrich, the Republican whip, took the floor today to say he found it ''amazing'' that the Democrats had learned so little ''from the lessons of 1984 and 1988.''
''Walter Mondale carried one state,'' said Mr. Gingrich, who added that Michael Dukakis had also been soundly rejected by the nation's voters. ''It is clear that a tax-increase liberal Democratic Party will remain a minority, and yet what are we going to see on the floor next week? We are going to see a tax increase that would threaten to kill the prosperity, bring on a recession, kill jobs, make America less competitive.''
 
Republicans See Opportunity
John Buckley, spokesman for the National Republican Congressional Committee, asserted that the Democratic plan was ''an absolute bonanza'' for the Republicans.
For their part, the Democrats were casting the fight in class terms. ''Today we Democrats offer the nation a choice: giveaways for the rich, or I.R.A.'s for working people,'' Mr. Gephardt said.
Speaker Thomas S. Foley declared, ''The only people who are going to pay more taxes are people who make over $150,000 a year.''
Mr. Gephardt, whose unsuccessful 1988 Presidential campaign was based on the slogan ''It's your fight, too,'' was striking similar chords today. He asserted that Mr. Bush's plan was ''designed to keep Leona Helmsley's dream alive - that 'only little people pay taxes.' ''
Rich Galen, press secretary to Mr. Gingrich, said, ''Dick Gephardt is going to rerun the election of 1988, and he's going to lose again.''
 
Divided Ranks
The Democratic plan met with mixed reviews from House Democrats today. It was outlined in a party meeting, which participants said was an animated session that included sharp questioning of the plan from the right and the left.
Some Democrats criticize the plan because it leaves the party open to charges of backing a tax increase. Others worry that it involves the party in a bidding war of benefits and cuts that blurs distinctions with the Republicans.
''I'm not real wild about this approach,'' said Byron Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota. ''George Bush is proposing to give very large tax cuts to the rich, and this approach sits us down at the same table trying to negotiate a different deal.''
Still, other Democrats were rallying around the plan. ''If it's going to win the Southern Democrats, who are the fulcrum, over to our side, I support it,'' Mr. Schumer said.
Democratic leaders outlined details of their plan at a news conference. The plan would eliminate an anomaly in the current tax code under which families with incomes between $74,850 and $155,000 or single people with incomes between $45,000 and $93,000 are taxed at the top marginal rate of 33 percent. But taxpayers with incomes above those amounts are taxed at a top marginal rate of 28 percent. The Democrats' plan would end this so-called bubble by making the top rate 33 percent for the wealthiest taxpayers as well.
 
A Democratic Tax Cut
The Democrats also said they had come up with a provision that would amount to a capital gains tax cut for some taxpayers. Capital gains are now taxed at the same rate as other income, but Democrats said they would create a 28 percent maximum capital gains rate so that those affected by the 33 percent rate would pay a lower rate on capital gains.
Another part of the Democratic plan would restore a tax deduction for I.R.A.'s, for couples with incomes above $50,000. The deduction was eliminated in the 1986 overhaul of the tax code. Restoring it would cost the Treasury $15.4 billion over five years, according to the Democrats' figures.
But they said that that revenue loss would be more than offset by the $37 billion raised through increasing the top marginal income tax rate and other changes they propose. The $22 billion left over would be placed in what the Democrats called a ''deficit reduction trust fund,'' a move they hope would encourage budget-conscious Southern Democrats to support the package.
The tax measures are tied into a deficit reduction plan that must be passed to avert automatic spending cuts under the Federal budget-balancing law. ''This is domino politics,'' one Republican leadership aide said. ''We may be here till Christmas, fighting with each other. It's not a very pleasant picture. This sucker's R-rated.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRIME TIME FREEWARE (56%); NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY; REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; SOUTHERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INCOME TAXES; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (IRA) POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VETO (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (76%); 

PERSON: STENHOLM, CHARLIE (REPR); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); TONER, ROBIN CHARLES SCHUMER (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%); 



506 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Nicaraguan opposition groups in the election scheduled for February would be assisted by a new proposal that the Bush Administration submitted to Congress. The initial plan was rebuffed amid questions about its legality. Page A1

 
Colombia's Justice Minister, a symbol of the nation's war against cocaine cartels, has resigned, a presidential aide confirmed. A1

 
Saudi Arabia beheaded 16 Kuwaitis by sword in the Islamic holy city of Mecca in connection with bombings and other terrorism during the annual Muslim pilgrimage in July. A8 
 
 
Yasir Arafat withheld endorsing Egypt's newest Middle East initiative, but said he was ready for a discussion with Israel. A8

 
Sunni Muslim in Lebanese parliament killed A9

Investigators reach wreckage of French jet A8

 
The Polish Primate agreed that the disputed Carmelite convent at the site of the Auschwitz death camp should be moved to an interfaith center to be built nearby, as the Vatican urged two days ago. A3

 
The U.S. and the Soviet Union moved toward setting a date for a summit meeting as Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze presented President Bush with new proposals on arms control. A10

 
Where the elk and the diplomats roam A10

 
Muscovites were pessimistic about chances that the Politburo change would help the country's economic plight. Thousands wait every day outside the American Embassy hoping to apply for a visa. A10

 
A Soviet newspaper apologized for a article that depicted Boris Yeltsin, a popular Kremlin critic, as a drunken knave during his recent tour of the U.S. The paper, Pravada, received a storm of criticism from readers. A9

 
Vietnam's pullout from Cambodia is now in its final stage with the the last soldier scheduled to leave next Tuesday. Efforts to create a cease-fire between the Vietnamese-backed Government and the opposition have failed. A3

 
Beijing journal A4

Japan's boom continues, and it's creating problems D1

Japan in deal for 10% of Tiffany D1

 
More than 780 South Africans pledged to refuse to serve in the armed forces. It was the largest campaign ever to resist conscription, which is required for all white males. A5

 
NATIONAL A12-22
 
Hurricane Hugo hit South Carolina with heavy winds and torrential rains, knocking down trees and power lines and flooding low-lying areas. A1

 
U.S. troops landed on St. Croix to restore order to an island devastated by a hurricane, then torn by looting and violence. A22

 
Flood peril seen along East Coast A20

Disaster aid for Puerto Rico is sped A20

 
The British Colony of Montserrat, the Caribbean island hardest hit by Hurricane Hugo, is now in the midst of orderly relief and reconstruction. ''It was like about 10 lions and 50 tigers outside,'' said one resident. A22

 
Aleast 19 high school children died and 50 were injured in Alton, Tex., when their bus plunged into a rain-filled 40-foot chasm after a collision with a delivery truck. A12

 
The fight over a new tax plan commenced in the House with Democratic leaders scrambling to sell their proposal as a boon to the middle class and Republicans saying that it was just another tax increase. A1

 
H.U.D. inquiry links five more to big fees A14

 
The F.B.I. will not appeal a sweeping court order intended to eliminate discrimination against Hispanic agents, the bureau said. A12

 
Rockwell is suing the Government over the company's role as manager of the Energy Department's Rocky Flats nuclear weapons plant. A18

 
Bankers Trust announced plans to handle the sale of a new issue of ''junk'' bonds, thus becoming the first banking company to manage a public sale of corporate bonds. D1

 
Declaring life begins at conception, a circuit judge gave temporary custody of seven frozen embryos to the woman who hopes to carry them to term, not the estranged husband who doesn't want to be a father. A13

 
Stricter limits on how many appeals death row inmates can file were recommended by a committee of Federal judges. B20

 
Defects top cause of infant deaths A18

 
REGIONAL B1-5
 
The F.A.A. is seeking the pilot of the plane that plunged into Rikers Island Channel on Wednesday night. He has not been contacted since the accident, and investigators said they did not know why he aborted the takeoff. A1

 
Survivors of the plane accident at La Guardia Airport described moments of intense drama that occurred during the plane's plunge into dark waters and the subsequent rescue efforts. B1

 
David Dinkins now describes himself as a ''mainstream Democrat,'' as he courts a broader constituency. In the Democratic Primary, he campaigned as ''a liberal and proud of it.'' A1

 
Senator D'Amato will support Rudolph Giuliani, the Republican nominee, in the New York City race for mayor, he said. He had been a vigorous supporter of Ronald Lauder. B3

 
The decentralized administration of New York City's schools should be re-placed by a plan that emphasizes school control, said Joseph Fernandez, the incoming Chancellor. B1

 
''Massive'' layoffs of city workers could occur if opponents of the Colisuem Center project pursue a lawsuit to block the construction project and deprive New York City of $247 million, Mayor Koch warned. B1

 
Regan criticizes how state debts were financed B3

Tremont Ave. shooting called racial B3

A man and two women are found slain in a Harlem apartment B3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NICARAGUA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); KUWAIT (92%); COLOMBIA (91%); PUERTO RICO (79%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MONTSERRAT (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LEBANON (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); VIET NAM (74%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); 

COMPANY: ST CROIX VINEYARDS (51%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RELIGION (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (86%); HURRICANES (84%); TROPICAL STORMS (84%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (76%); HOLOCAUST (74%); WEATHER (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); FLOODS & FLOODING (71%); COCAINE (71%); TERRORISM (70%); DISASTER RELIEF (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%); FLOOD ZONES (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); CARTELS (57%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



507 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Peres Plans to Visit Moscow At Peace Group's Invitation

 BODY:
Shimon Peres, the Israeli Labor Party leader, conditionally accepted an invitation from the Soviet Peace Committee to visit Moscow, a spokesman for the Israeli Government said yesterday.
Mr. Peres is visiting the United States and met here yesterday with a Soviet delegation that included Genrikh Borovikh, president of the Peace Committee. 
''On principle, he accepted the invitation, although he would like to make it more tangible,'' said the Israeli spokesman, Baruch Binah. Mr. Borovikh stressed that the invitation was not on behalf of the Soviet Government, Mr. Binah said. No date was discussed.
Mr. Peres would be the highest-ranking Israeli visitor to Moscow since the two countries severed ties during the 1967 Arab-Israeli War.
The hourlong meeting, attended by Yuri Snamensky, deputy chairman of the Foreign Economic Relations Commission, and Yuri Olkhovikov, deputy chairman of Gosplan, the state planning committee, also included plans for expanding trade and business ties between Israel and the Soviet Union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ISRAEL, STATE OF; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: PERES, SHIMON SHIMON PERES (93%); 



508 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: Where the Elk and the Diplomats Roam

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JACKSON, Wyo., Sept. 21

 BODY:
In choosing Grand Teton National Park as a setting to talk about arms control with Soviet diplomats this weekend, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d will be showing off one of the most dramatic places in the American West but also an area that is in conflict with itself.
A walk in the woods with Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union during the two days of talk that begin here Friday, would lead the superpower diplomats to aspen and cottonwood groves holding a blush of gold amid bugling elks and foraging moose herds.
Cradling a half-dozen glaciers, the Tetons rise up a mile and a half from the floor of Jackson Lake, home of rare trumpeter swans, where the two foreign ministers will talk about chemical warfare and land-based nuclear missiles, among other things.
Mr. Baker, who has a ranch next to a prized trout stream 70 miles south of here, told friends that he chose Jackson Hole because he wanted to share with the Russians one of the garden spots of the earth - where the questions of war and peace might be influenced by nature's theatrics. 
 
'Power and Majesty'
''The power and majesty of those mountains ought to give anyone pause about the tangled events that we've allowed ourselves to get wrapped up in,'' said Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Wyoming Republican, whose father settled in Jackson Hole in 1897.
Jackson Hole, by the reckoning of some visionaries here, may well be on its way to becoming a sort of Geneva of the Rockies. But the fragility of the natural attractions also make some residents of ''the hole,'' as skiers call it, nervous about the attention.
''At the turn of the century people used to herd cattle here, but now they herd tours,'' said Bob Rudd, a historian and director of the Jackson Hole Museum. ''This has become a yuppie paradise. They're even talking about building a recreation center so we can teach people how to walk in a heated room.''
 
More Elk Than People
Mr. Rudd said he was concerned that the abundant wildlife and the crowds who come to ski, hike, hunt, fish and gaze at the scenery might one day be incompatible.
At certain times of the year there are still more elk in this valley, from the largest native herd left in the world, than there are people. The summit spire of Grand Teton, 13,770 feet above sea level, will never be like Central Park on Sunday.
Residents of Jackson Hole, so named by 19th-century fur trappers, like to say that everything America used to have - free roaming antelope, eagles crowding the sky, air you can't see and bison munching on prairie grass - is still here.
But this is also a place where cowboy boots can cost $700 at one of the tony leather boutiques surrounding the square in Jackson, the main town in the area, and a buffalo burger can set you back $8 and change.
 
Wood Planked Sidewalks
Cowboys, authentic and urban, walk the wood planked sidewalks in the occasional company of Harrison Ford, the movie star who has a ranch in this valley, and James G. Watt, the former Secretary of Interior, who is building a home with money earned lecturing against environmentalists and consulting with the Government.
Teton County, which borders the park, is the richest and fastest growing county in Wyoming - America's least populated state with 480,000 people. Now facing the 12,000-barrier, Teton officials are trying to decide whether to allow a huge mall to be built in a field where hay is cut by horse-drawn mowers.
The Russians, whose advance delegation of journalists and diplomats have taken to this valley like a child on his first trip to Disneyland, will not have to look far to find American cowboy kitsch.
 
Russians Tour the Town
Mr. Rudd, the historian, was showing a group of Russians around town earlier this week and said they were overwhelmed by Jackson Hole's connection to its more rowdy past.
''They said that before the visit they thought all Americans were born in front of a TV set,'' Mr. Rudd said.
Senator Simpson believes that the allied nations eventually could hold their economic summit meeting here and that President Bush, who has fished the Snake River for blue ribbon trout, could meet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev in the shadow of the peaks named Les Troi Tetons (the Three Breasts) by French trappers.
 
'Best Hope for Future'
''The recreation counties like Jackson Hole hold the best hope for the future,'' said Philip M. Burgess, president of the Center for the New West, a Denver-based research institution.
''What these emerging areas all have in common is an outstanding environment and some kind of intellectual activity or convention center,'' he said. ''People understand that their natural environment is the best thing they have going for them and they can't afford to foul the nest.''
In Jackson Hole, a valley 6,100 feet above sea level, 97 percent of the land is owned by the state or Federal Government, a condition which conservationists say should guarantee long-term protection.
The transience of humans here is reflected in a poem written by Edith Sargent, a pioneer settler from New York. In her poem, titled ''The Grand Teton,'' she wrote:
 
The ages pass and men die fast
But still the Tetons stood
In stately silence to the last
Wrought by no human hands.

GRAPHIC: map of Jackson, Wyoming

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (94%); WEST USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); JACKSON HOLE (WYO); GRAND TETON NATIONAL PARK (WYO); WYOMING

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; NYTRAVEL; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES NATIONAL PARKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MAMMALS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HIKING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); WILDLIFE (76%); FISHES (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); HISTORY (71%); SKIING (70%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD (MIN) ALAN K SIMPSON (54%); 



509 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Politburo Shuffle? Muscovites Shrug

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Out on the streets, where Kremlin-watching is no mere academic exercise, the morning-after view of Mikhail S. Gorbachev, master Politburo purger, was of a man whose political gifts still fail to ease the national torment of fading opportunity.
''I've been waiting in line since May,'' said Aleksandr Y. Daskal, one of the horde of Soviet citizens who every day encircle the American Embassy searching for the chance to apply for a visa to leave the hard times of this country for good.
On Wednesday night, Mr. Daskal heard the news that Mr. Gorbachev had purged five men, most of them regarded as conservatives who have delayed Mr. Gorbachev's program of political and economic change.
Mr. Daskal described the purge as a more or less annual event now in Mr. Gorbachev's attempt to get the nation moving again. 
 
Waiting List of Thousands
Mr. Daskal said he appreciated Mr. Gorbachev's frustration, but he nevertheless kept his place in line. He is No. 2,049 in the initial line organized by the waiting crowd as the means of getting to the real line, the embassy's waiting list for visa applications.
This list is now at scores of thousands and growing, with American officials about to introduce even tighter quotas. Still, it is one of the few bits of hope for more and more Soviet citizens who find themselves less fettered by political repression but freer mainly to cope with economic depression.
''The situation gets more and more tense in our country, and our problems will be solved by either the democratic methods of Gorbachev or by the old methods, the methods of the 1950's,'' Mr. Daskal said. He is a 34-year-old construction worker, a family man whose dark estimate of Mr. Gorbachev's chances prompts him to stand in line for hours every day, looking for a way out of the nation's great subculture of standing and waiting.
 
'Changes Mean Nothing'
For such Muscovites, Mr. Gorbachev, in his latest lightning purge of Politburo members, may as well have been mastering some desk-top executive game in the Kremlin.
''The changes mean nothing,'' said a man holding his daughter's hand and standing angrily outside the latest emporium that is taboo for hard-pressed Soviet shoppers, a new supermarket stocked with delectable Western goods, from bright fresh bananas to thick steaks, unavailable to most Soviet citizens.
''We went in and had a look and had to leave, of course,'' the man said of the store, which is closed to most Muscovites, his eyes glistening from a sense of insult. His daughter tugged at his sleeve, wanting to walk away from the store's masked windows, behind which a checkout counter was laser-reading high-priced goods that spilled along like some fantasy cornucopia.
The store, not far from the Kremlin, was opened by Stockmann's, the Helsinki store that long has discreetly shipped in weekly orders of first-grade food, clothing and furnishings to Western diplomats and journalists here.
 
Credit Cards Only
For a few days after the store was opened, some resourceful Soviet citizens used the store, producing hard-earned dollars normally hidden in mattresses because of the law against ordinary citizens possessing foreign currency. As the authorities showed interest, the store introduced a credit-card only policy. Now, Soviet citizens can must stand outside and wait, this time, however, with noticeable anger.
Before the latest purge, President Gorbachev exhorted his elite Communist hierarchy to find ways to ''defuse tension'' along the long, slow lines of Soviet shoppers with his programs of perestroika, or political and economic change, and glasnost, or increased openness.
Mr. Daskal, waiting at the American Embassy for his number to come up for a chance at getting away, said: ''We've had four years of perestroika and glasnost and things have only gotten worse. the only thing we have is more glasnost and perestroika.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); CONSERVATISM (72%); IMMIGRATION (70%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (69%); RETAILERS (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (63%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; CLINES, FRANCIS X



510 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Neighborhood Not a Cradle of Racists;
Italy's True Heritage

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As an Italian-American, I feel deep shame that an Italian neighborhood should again be the site of a brutal racial murder and that the Italian flag should be waved at protesting black marchers as an emblem of bigotry and cultural insularity. Italian philosophers were the first Westerners systematically to develop the concept of a universal humanity united by the rule of law. 
But it was my grandmother, an illiterate landless peasant from the plains of Puglia, who taught me that the human heart speaks a single language of desire and terror. Racism is profoundly alien to both the high-literate and popular traditions of Italian civilization.
When the Pentecostal pastor Herbert Daughtry (Op-Ed, Aug. 29) invokes Carl Jung's unproved notion of a peculiar ''race consciousness'' to explain the murder of Yusuf K. Hawkins, he consigns the solution to the problem to the unchangeable regions of the psyche and not to the changeable structures of interaction and communication between ethnic and racial groups.
Nor should black and white leaders forget that it is young men - white and black - poorly educated and economically marginal, who are responsible for most of the violence that threatens to ignite a larger conflagration. We ignore their yearnings and waste their fierce energies at our peril.
 
THOMAS BELMONTE
 Brooklyn, Sept. 1, 1989
The writer, a professor of anthropology at Hofstra University, is author of ''The Broken Fountain,'' a study of the inner-city poor of Naples.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (54%); HOFSTRA UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BENSONHURST (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; ITALY

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; RACIAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (IN US); SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ITALIAN-AMERICANS; DISCRIMINATION RACE & RACISM (92%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HATE CRIME (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHNICITY (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); RELIGION (69%); TRENDS (65%); CITY LIFE (64%); 

PERSON: BELMONTE, THOMAS (PROF)



511 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns;
In a Small Town, One Pharmacist Versus a Chain

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP

DATELINE: TARRYTOWN, N.Y.

 BODY:
Neil Norwood has always tried to give his small-town pharmacy a personal touch. He keeps one bottle of Odol imported mouthwash on the shelf for Mrs. Bogyo. ''Mrs. Bogyo's happy when she comes in and sees it,'' Mr. Norwood said. ''The fire chief comes in for Ionil medicated shampoo in the 32-ounce size. Pat Warner just bought her Norell cologne, so I don't have any, but I've reordered and her Norell will be there next time she's in.''
All his life, Mr. Norwood dreamed of owning a pharmacy. He worked as a delivery boy at 14. By 16 he was recommending over-the-counter medications. His father and older brother are also pharmacists, and nine years ago, at 26, Mr. Norwood bought Russell & Lawrie, the village's oldest pharmacy, founded in 1894. 
People expect a lot from a small-town pharmacy. When Jim Beach couldn't reach his pharmacist to fill a prescription one afternoon, Mr. Beach called the man at home that night and yelled at him. ''I said, 'You have violated a public trust.' '' Mr. Beach switched to Russell & Lawrie, and so far, he says, he has not had to yell at Mr. Norwood.
''I love what I do,'' Mr. Norwood said. ''And I think it shows in my work.'' But two weeks ago a pharmaceutical force blew into town that not even Mr. Norwood is sure he has a salve for. The CVS chain (770 stores in 14 states) opened a new pharmacy a few doors away. ''I'm probably more nervous than I should be,'' Mr. Norwood said, ''but I'm nervous.''
His regular customers keep asking what he is going to do. ''It makes you nervous when people keep asking what you're going to do,'' Mr. Norwood said. ''What is he going to do?'' asked Barbara Cohen, a regular.
''I'm worried, of course,'' Mr. Norwood said, ''but I'm self-confident. When I bought the store, I was doing 30 prescriptions a day. I built it up to 100. Monday I did 140; that's a good feeling. I love pharmacy. I love being where I'm needed. I'm sure I am nervous about it. But I feel my customers I've got in, I've earned.''
He paused to get Mrs. Deely's blood pressure pills. ''Neil is very, very nice,'' she said.
''Even if they take away just 10 a day, that's 10 percent of my volume,'' Mr. Norwood said. ''We do everything we can. I'm just afraid people will think that the grass is greener on the other side.''
He got Mrs. Capalbo's antibiotic. ''There isn't anyone who doesn't like Neil,'' she said.
Mr. Norwood knows what goes through people's minds when they think of CVS: a giant, economy life style, tubs of cold cream, industrial drums full of mouthwash.
Russell & Lawrie is just two rows wide, 1,000 square feet. CVS is 9,417 square feet. CVS is constantly running full-page advertisements in the newspapers. Mr. Norwood runs a two-by-three-inch advertisement. ''It costs $35.''
He is bracing for the CVS big guns. Soon, he knows, CVS will make its introductory offer -up to $10 off a prescription. For a few years he has seen this coming: nine new CVS pharmacies in Westchester County in 10 years. ''I was going to be prepared,'' he said. ''I was going to have my store as strong as possible.'' He emphasized service, bolstering home deliveries, taking blood pressure free, joining a cooperative to qualify for bulk-rate purchases.
His assistant, Steve Eckstein, became certified as a fitter of therapeutic braces. ''We do three to four a week,'' Mr. Norwood said. ''I don't want to lose even one customer. I'm probably more nervous than I should be. If I see someone looking dissatisfied, I ask why.''
Meanwhile, down the street at CVS, Lip Quencher was on sale for $1.99; 60 Ziploc bags were 99 cents; Afrin 12-hour nasal spray was $2.88. The CVS pharmacist referred a reporter to the manager behind aisle 14. The manager said talk to the regional pharmacy supervisor, who provided a toll-free number in Rhode Island. Gary Charboneau, a pleasant-sounding vice president, said the CVS philosophy was to open many stores in an area to take advantage of the economy of scale in advertising. ''The strong independents will remain,'' he said. ''You do have some weaker guys going out. It's often that they're not good business people.''
Mr. Norwood believes he will be here when the dust settles, though he doesn't think the village can support its five pharmacies. He is reminded of the need for vigilance every time Jerry Sachs comes in. Mr. Sachs had a health and beauty store in Mamaroneck until CVS moved across the street. ''We owned that store 17 years, but we couldn't match CVS prices,'' Mr. Sachs said. ''Sure, it hurts to close. You see your people walking across the street to CVS, it's heart-wrenching.''
He says he does not hold it against CVS. ''It's just a business thing,'' he said. Mr. Sachs is now a regional salesman for a drug wholesaler. ''I sell to CVS now,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: CVS DRUGS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TARRYTOWN (NY)

SUBJECT: DRUG STORES PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); PHARMACISTS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); HYPERTENSION (69%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (54%); 

PERSON: WINERIP, MICHAEL; NORWOOD, NEIL



512 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section B; Page 20, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: THE LAW;
Coke in Bitter Legal Fight Over Cost of Sweetener

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Sept. 21

 BODY:
In the cavernous lobby of the Coca-Cola Company's headquarters here is a crystal globe ringed with delicate glass doves marking the company's 100th anniversary in 1986. It carries the inscription: ''Congratulations from your partners and friends, the bottlers of Coca-Cola 1886-1986.''
But there will be no doves around the Federal courthouse in Wilmington, Del., on Monday, when Coca-Cola and a group of bottlers resume a bitter eight-year-old legal fight whose roots go back almost 70 years.
In three lawsuits, the bottlers are charging that Coca-Cola has failed to live up to a 1921 contract. But what is really at issue is the role of Coca-Cola's independent bottlers, whose history is almost as old and distinctive as the soft drink itself. 
For the plaintiffs, about 30 relatively small bottlers, it is a David and Goliath battle to maintain their historic relationship with the company. They are seeking damages that with interest could come to $100 million by the time the trial ends.
 
'Negotiating With the Russians'
''Negotiating with the Coca-Cola Company is like negotiating with the Russians: what's theirs is theirs and what's yours is negotiable,'' said Emmet J. Bondurant 2d, the chief attorney for the bottlers and a principal of Bondurant, Mixon & Elmore in Atlanta.
For Coca-Cola, it is a struggle with a small band of holdout bottlers unwilling to face economic reality.
''From our standpoint, they're trying to get something no other bottlers are trying to get,'' said Robert Keller, general counsel for Coca-Cola. ''The real quarrel they have is that the economic system has changed.''
The origins of the dispute lie in the original vision for Coca-Cola.
The company's founder, Asa Candler, apparently felt Coca-Cola's future was primarily as a soda fountain beverage, not a bottled soft drink. In 1899 he gave two lawyers in Chattanooga, Tenn., Benjamin F. Thomas and Joseph B. Whitehead, exclusive rights to sell Coca-Cola in ''bottles or other receptacles'' throughout all but eight states. In return, he received $1 and agreed to sell them his syrup at a fixed price.
 
Dispute Over Sugar Prices
That arrangement worked until World War I, when soaring sugar prices made it onerous for the company. When Coca-Cola tried to change the contract it touched off a legal battle with the bottlers that finally resulted in a 1921 settlement that tied any price increases the bottlers would pay for the syrup to increases in the cost of sugar.
In the 1970's, when the inflation rate was soaring, a similar dispute arose as Coke again tried to free itself from what was essentially a fixed-price contract. In 1978 the company proposed an amended contract that split the cost of sweetener from the base ingredient and tied increases for the latter to increases in the Consumer Price Index.
The amendment also provided that if Coca-Cola modified the syrup formula to replace sugar with ''another sweetening ingredient,'' the resulting savings would be passed along to the bottlers who agreed to the amended contract.
All but about 90 of more than 400 bottlers went along with the change. In 1980 the company began switching from sucrose to less expensive high fructose corn syrup as a sweetener. It passed the savings along to bottlers who agreed to the revised contract. But for syrup sold to the bottlers who refused to sign it continued to set syrup prices according to the market price of granulated sugar, as stipulated by its interpretation of the old contract.
 
Contract Violations Charged
That left the other bottlers at times paying substantially higher prices for their syrup. Seventy-three dissident bottlers filed suit in 1981, saying the company had abridged the 1921 contract by changing its formula without their consent and refusing to pass along the cost savings to them.
In 1987, after a court ruling in favor of the bottlers, Coca-Cola reverted to supplying the bottlers who refused to sign with the more expensive sucrose sweetener while giving the other bottlers the fructose syrup.
Since then the two sides have flailed away in litigation that has revolved around details like the definition of sugar and Coca-Cola Bottler's Syrup and the difference between ''market,'' ''list'' and ''quoted'' prices of sugar. Also at issue is whether Diet Coke is covered under the 1921 contract.
The hearings dragged on for so long and in such detail that Federal District Judge Murray S. Schwartz, who presided over the case from its beginning, issued a ruling in 1986 chastising both sides for being unable to settle the case. #17-Week Trial Last Year Undeterred, both sides plowed on, culminating last year in a 17-week trial that produced thousands of pages of transcripts, closing briefs, conclusions and findings. Now they must now do it all over again. After the hearings, Judge Schwartz became too ill to work and has been forced to relinquish the case.
The new judge, Joseph J. Farnan Jr., steps into litigation that has already dragged on for eight years and in which Judge Schwartz has written 12 opinions.
Each side says the other has been unwilling to settle, but both admit the litigation is about more than the price of sugar.
To the bottlers, the suit is part of an effort to maintain the partnership role they have had since 1899. As recently as 30 years ago there were more than 1,000 bottlers in the United States. Now there are about 160, and the 10 largest account for more than 80 percent of the bottled and canned Coke sold in the United States.
The largest bottler, Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., 49 percent of which is owned by Coca-Cola, now accounts for almost half the bottled and canned Coke sold in the country.
 
'A Master-Slave Relationship'
The bottlers who are suing say Coca-Cola has used every means at its disposal, from overcharging for syrup to withholding advertising funds and threatening to withhold products, in order to bring them into line as part of an effort to undermine the historic relationship with its bottlers.
''We would like to maintain the relationship we have, that we've always had, where it's a partnership and not a master-slave relationship, which is basically where these businesses have evolved for a lot of bottlers now,'' said William Schmidt, president of the Coca-Cola Bottling Company in Elizabethtown, Ky., whose family has been in the bottling business since 1901. His company is one of the plaintiffs.
The Coca-Cola Company says the plaintiffs are asking for the best of both worlds: the advantages of a clearly outdated old contract and the increased national marketing they say the company is doing as a result of the new contract.
Company officials say the shrinking number of bottlers reflects the competitive environment throughout the bottling industry.
 
'Economic Realities' Cited
''Those are the same economic realities whether you're a Coke bottler, a Pepsi bottler or a Royal Crown bottler,'' said Frank C. Jones, a partner with the Atlanta firm of King & Spalding, who is Coke's lead defense attorney.
To some degree the battle for the small independents has already been lost. The 15 or so active plaintiffs of the 30 bottlers still involved in the case make up more than 10 percent of the nation's soft drink bottlers but account for less than 3 percent of the total volume sold.
Meanwhile, as lawyers prepare for trials that will probably last into next spring, neither side expects any big surprises.
''By this time there's no room left for any kind of ambushes,'' said Mr. Bondurant, the bottlers' lead attorney. ''It's going to be more like a tank attack.''

GRAPHIC: photo of Emmet H. Bondurant 2d, Jane F. Vehko and Jeffrey D. Horst (NYT/Alan S. Weiner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (88%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (72%); CHATTANOOGA, TN, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; PRICES SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (91%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); SUGAR MARKETS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (84%); FOOD PRICES (84%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); DAMAGES (75%); LITIGATION (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); WORLD WAR I (67%); INFLATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER ROBERT J KELLER (50%); 



513 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 2; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 3145 words

HEADLINE: Documentaries Are Hot At the '89 Film Festival

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
HAS the power of the documentary film to bear witness to reality endured in an era saturated by the instantaneous images of television news? Has the documentary been rendered irrelevant - or worse, boring - by the competitive video verite of the Cable News Network and its 24-hour-a-day bulletins in millions of homes? Such concerns, debated by film makers, critics and assorted videologues, are answered definitively by the New York Film Festival in its 27th series, which opens tonight.
This season, in the remarkable ways they transcend cliche, the festival's offerings demonstrate the indomitable perseverance of the art of the documentary.
''Talk of the death of the documentary is as appropriate as talk about the death of the novel,'' said Frederick Wiseman, a master of the documentary who has made the longest movie included in the festival: ''Near Death,'' an unblinking 5-hour-and-48-minute examination of the dance of life in the intensive-care unit of a Boston hospital. ''The images you see on television news are so superficial, they don't begin to touch the mountains of complexities and feelings and ambiguities behind those images. People working in the documentary form are expressing what they mean to say in ways that are certainly unpredictable - and I, for one, think that's great.'' 
The majority of the festival's 33 films from 13 countries are not documentaries, of course. But a remarkable number of this year's fictional offerings do more than accentuate the nonfiction crossover trend. Many offerings clearly demonstrate the film makers' preoccupation with the nature of the real. Several films explore their characters' emotional interaction with video representations of other characters, a la ''Sex, Lies and Videotape.'' The tension between things real and imagined is evident even in lyrical cinematic experiments like Bertrand Blier's ''Too Beautiful for You,'' a hallucinatory exploration of love and passion that opens the festival this evening.
The film, which stars Gerard Depardieu and Carole Bouquet, is the first of six full-length features that will be screened this weekend at Lincoln Center. It is one of the 11 films in the festival already picked up for American distribution. The festival will conclude Oct. 9 with Bill Forsyth's ''Breaking In,'' a caper movie about two small-time thieves, starring Burt Reynolds and Casey Siemaszko.
''Too Beautiful for You,'' Mr. Blier's antic deconstruction of the hoary French menage-a-trois drama of husband, wife and mistress, has an unceasingly reflective quality. Structurally, scenes rooted in reality seem to engender a succession of fantasy sequences as dreamlike as the state of being in love. Real-enough characters talk to the camera, each other and total strangers in a public verbalization of their own interior monologues; fantasy seems to be propelled by the reality of the characters' thoughts.
Film makers' engagement with a documentary esthetic ''seems to be a strong trend,'' said Richard Pena, chairman of the festival's program committee. ''Perhaps the events of the world are achieving a kind of primacy in some artists' minds.''
''Or maybe the escapist fare from Hollywood is so unsatisfying that we're all looking for something with relevance and staying power,'' said Wendy Keys, executive producer of the Film Society of Lincoln Center, which presents the festival. But the very word documentary ''carries a burden,'' she added.
''The voice-over, the old film clips, the interviews - all of us absorbed these techniques in grade school watching films called 'The Making of Aluminum,' '' she said. ''This burden is not lost on the documentary makers.''
Some offerings in the festival, she said, ''are a reaction to - or a subversion of - the traditional video white papers that don't seem to stir us anymore.''
 
From Real to Quasi
There are a dozen documentaries, diary films and ''crypto-quasi-documentaries'' - as Ms. Keys put it, with a laugh - at the festival this year. One entry is a documentary made by a film maker who has minimal tolerance for documentaries. The black comedy ''Roger and Me,'' to be shown on Wednesday and Thursday, was written and directed by Michael Moore. It has been eagerly anticipated since becoming a runaway hit at the recent film festivals in Toronto and Telluride, Colo. In Toronto last Sunday, moviegoers voted it the festival's most popular film, the first documentary to win since ''Best Boy'' in 1979, which went on to win an Oscar.
''It's not exactly an anti-documentary,'' said Mr. Moore, interviewed in Toronto, where he received a standing ovation after the screening of his film. ''It's just a documentary made by someone who doesn't like documentaries.''
''Roger and Me'' is a personal essay by Mr. Moore, a 35-year-old former journalist, on the closing of the General Motors factories in Flint, Mich., his hometown. The film depicts the grim realities of the Rust Belt blues in a way that is so elliptical that festival critics in Toronto and Telluride have hailed it as a masterpiece of comedy. That's right, comedy.
''I think it's almost impossible to make a standard documentary now,'' Mr. Moore said. ''Who wants to watch another documentary about a dying steel town? Who wants to see a shot of another unemployment line? The images from TV news have made traditional documentaries obsolete.''
In its abundance of personality, Mr. Moore's film often seems to evoke fictional comedies. ''People at the festivals have the hardest time putting it in a category,'' said Mr. Moore of his film. ''There's no fiction in it, but it usually winds up being screened with the fiction features. I guess it's not your usual documentary.''
 
Reality-Based Fiction
But if documentary films can be confused with fictional offerings, reality-based television itself is flirting with fiction. These days, ''television is playing fast and loose with fiction and reality - you know, every time you turn on the TV, there seems to be a new show fictionally purporting to re-enact a crime or event,'' said Mr. Pena.
Mr. Wiseman said: ''Those kinds of re-creations are disturbing to me. They're playing with illusion to the point that people don't know how to touch base with real events anymore. The idea of it appalls me.'' He added: ''In real life you can get events that are as funny or sad as those in the greatest novels. You just have to be there to stumble across them.''
Mr. Moore, who is a character in his own movie, is one of many directors at the festival who are redefining the concept of auteur, which once described the guiding intelligence that created a film. Now it also seems to mean a person engaged in the action, not only as a witness, but also as a participant. Yet ''Roger and Me,'' narrated by Mr. Moore in a very personal way, is the auteurial anitithesis of Mr. Wiseman's narratorless investigations. In fact, ''Roger and Me'' is so personal a statement about such an impersonal thing as a factory city, that the film seems closely related to several of the ''diary films'' at the festival.
 
Media's Effect
One such work is ''Current Events,'' to be shown Oct. 7, in which the director Ralph Arlyck offers his own intensely personal journal to address the effect of the news media on the townspeople of the global village. ''I sometimes feel that I live suspended with that other world of news drifting out there like a dream, far away,'' he says in the film, then demonstrates just how that other world impinges on his consciousness, his family and his soul.
Also to be shown Oct. 7 is ''Dreams From China.'' This diary film by Fred Marx is a lyrical observation of that country, which is also the setting for Joris Ivens's ''Tale of the Wind,'' to be shown Monday and Tuesday. ''Wind'' is a diary, an essay and a meditation on the life, the work and the art of the Dutch Mr. Ivens, a master of the documentary form, who died in June at the age of 91. His film deals with the elusiveness of his subject - the wind - just as his own lung problems, he says in the film, gave him difficulty in his youth with catching breath itself. The film, co-directed by Mr. Ivens's longtime collaborator Marceline Loridan, includes not only documentary elements, but also fantasy sequences that evoke the work of Georges Melies.
Mr. Wiseman said that he, like Mr. Moore, finds ''the traditional documentary boring, the sort that has run its course since the beginning of television. I responded to that by doing my own films, with no narration.''
Mr. Wiseman's exhaustive study of the presence of death in a Boston hospital takes as its subject the impact of advancing medical technology on the prolongation of the lives of the gravely ill. The film will have its world premiere at Alice Tully Hall on Oct. 7.
Mr. Wiseman said his work grew out of the cinema verite movement in the late 1950's and early 60's, when the advent of hand-held equipment and fast film made it possible for film makers to capture reality directly and unobtrusively.
 
Verite Derivative
Curiously, one of the fictional films at the festival, ''The Plot Against Harry,'' to be shown tomorrow, is also derived from the cinema-verite movement. The gritty story of a small-time numbers satrap just released from jail was shot by the director Michael Roemer in the 1960's. Funds became available only recently to complete the post-production work.
Filmed in black and white, suffused with street noise, ringing phones, barking dogs and settings that have a transcendent 60's authenicity about them, the film emerges in 1989 as if from a time capsule. ''It is an example of a kind of cinema that never came into being,'' said Mr. Pena. ''It uses the language of cinema verite in a fictional context. But that cinema -exemplified by the work of directors like John Cassavetes - was somewhat stillborn.''
Nevertheless, cinema verite is alive and well at this festival, and so is a kind of video verite. Several films probe the interaction of video images with their protagonists' state of mind. One of them, ''The Documentator,'' by Istvan Darday and Gyorgyi Szalai, which will be shown Oct. 1 and 2, chronicles a love triangle set in a video shop. The obsession of the store owner, Raffael, is not only to spy on his girlfriend, but also to compile a video archive of the history of the world. Ultimately, Raffael's ''visual encyclopedia'' serves to make the reality of history itself a kind of packaged commodity, to be play-buttoned, paused, fast-forwarded and ejected.
In another fictional film, Atom Egoyan's ''Speaking Parts,'' to be shown Sept. 29 and 30, a woman rents videotape after videotape searching for the image of a young actor who has worked as a film extra. Her infatuation with his image, as well as a portrait of the actor's own post-electronic disaffection, make this film a meditation on emotional alienation in the era of the microchip.
 
Artists' Portraits
Several of the festival's documentaries are portraits of well-known artists. Charlotte Zwerin's ''Thelonious Monk: Straight, No Chaser,'' a portrait of a brilliant musician and troubled personality, will run on Sept. 30. And Anne Belle and Deborah Dickson's ''Dancing for Mr. B: Six Balanchine Ballerinas'' illuminates the life of the great choreographer by focusing on six dancers who were closely associated with him. The film, to be shown Oct. 7, seems somewhat traditional in form, but in truth it has few images of Balanchine himself. ''It's a very different understanding of Balanchine, because here we see a man totally through his women,'' said Ms. Keys. ''We can see how he changed their life and, indirectly, we can understand how they changed his life. But those who see this film have to work to see him. They must participate themselves.''
For another of the documentaries, ''Confession: A Chronicle of Alienation,'' to be shown Oct. 3, Georgi Gavrilov spent more than two years filming the life of a Moscow drug addict. Although it is a harrowing portrait of the drug demimonde in the Soviet Union, in presentation the film is highly expressionistic. ''If 'Roger and Me' begins to verge on fiction in its presentation,'' said Mr. Pena, ''then 'Confession' verges on the avant-garde in the images that are chosen and in the presentation of the character's inner reality.''
 
An Older Reynolds
Of course, there are many films at the festival that have not a whiff of the documentary about them. ''Breaking In,'' by Mr. Forsyth, is a much-anticipated film by the acclaimed director of ''Local Hero,'' ''Gregory's Girl'' and ''Housekeeping.'' In ''Breaking In,'' Burt Reynolds plays, for the first time in his film career, a character much older than himself.
''A City of Sadness,'' which will be shown Oct. 6 and 8, recently won the Golden Lion at the Venice Film Festival. The film is Hou Hsiao-Hsien's long-promised epic about Taiwan in the mid-1940's. It is the story of a family in the tumultuous time when the Japanese returned Taiwan to Chinese control, and the Taiwanese rebelled against the Nationalist Government.
Bertrand Tavernier's ''Life and Nothing But,'' to be shown Oct. 3 and 4, tells the story of two women who search for their missing-in-action lovers in the landscape of 1920 France devastated by the First World War. Mr. Tavernier's moody jazz film, '' 'Round Midnight,'' was the hit of the festival three years ago.
Jim Jarmusch's ''Mystery Train,'' set for Sept. 29 and 30, tells three shaggy-dog stories situated in a Memphis hotel, evokinge the mood and look and sound of the city of Graceland and Elvis. ''Jim belongs to that generation of people who know the documentary world very well, but concentrate on fiction and storytelling,'' said Mr. Pena.
Another high point of the festival is the Oct. 2 showing of ''Intolerance,'' D. W. Griffith's 3-hour-and-29-minute silent masterpiece from 1916.
 
First Entries
The worldwide nature of the festival is especially evident this year, and the contributing countries include not only Australia and three Eastern-bloc countries, but also Burkina Faso (formerly Upper Volta), Finland and, for the first time at the festival, New Zealand.
That film, a short, ''Kitchen Sink,'' will be shown Oct. 6. It is the story of a woman who begins uncurling a strand of hair from her kitchen sink and finds herself pulling up an adventure, a companion and an unending mystery. The film was greeted with applause and laughter when screened at the Toronto Film Festival this month.
 
Schedule of Screenings
The 27th New York Film Festival opens tonight at Lincoln Center with two screenings of ''Too Beautiful for You,'' and closes Oct. 9. All films except the late show on opening night, the closing night and D. W. Griffith's ''Intolerance'' are at Alice Tully Hall. Many screenings are sold out. Tickets for most performances, at $8, may be purchased at the Tully Hall box office (362-1911); tickets for ''Intolerance'' are $15 and $20. Screenings for which tickets are available are noted. Some films are scheduled to open commercially in New York City; those dates are noted. Here is a schedule of the festival.
 
Tonight
''TOO BEAUTIFUL FOR YOU'' (France, 1989); directed by Bertrand Blier. 7:45 P.M. at Alice Tully Hall is sold out. At Avery Fisher Hall, 9 P.M.Sold out. Opens in February.
 
Tomorrow
''A SHORT FILM ABOUT KILLING'' (Poland, 1987); directed by Krzysztof Kieslowski. Noon. Also Sunday, 7 P.M.
''THE PLOT AGAINST HARRY'' (United States, 1969-89); directed by Michael Roemer. 3 P.M. Sold out.
''STRAPLESS'' (Britain, 1988); directed by David Hare. 6 P.M. Also Sunday, 9:30 P.M. Both screenings sold out.
''MY LEFT FOOT'' (Ireland, 1989); directed by Jim Sheridan. 9 P.M. Also Sunday, 2 P.M.; partial-view seats only. Opens Nov. 3.
 
Sunday
''ARIEL'' (Finland, 1988), directed by Aki Kaurismaki, and ''London Suite'' (Britain, 1989), directed by Vivienne Dick. 4:30 P.M. Also Monday, 6:15 P.M.
 
Monday
''A TALE OF THE WIND'' (France, 1988), directed by Joris Ivens and Marceline Loridan, and ''Rain'' (Holland, 1929), directed by Mr. Ivens. 9:15 P.M. Also Tuesday, 6:15 P.M.
 
Tuesday
''BLACK RAIN'' (Japan, 1989); directed by Shohei Imamura. 9 P.M. Also Wednesday, 6:15 P.M.
 
Wednesday
''ROGER AND ME'' (United States, 1989); directed by Michael Moore. 9:30 P.M. Also Thursday, 6:15 P.M.
 
Thursday
''THE MAHABHARATA'' (France/Britain/United States, 1989); directed by Peter Brook. 9 P.M. Also Sept. 30, 11:30 A.M. Both screenings sold out.
 
Next Friday
''MYSTERY TRAIN'' (United States, 1989); directed by Jim Jarmusch. 6:15 P.M. Also Sept. 30, 9:30 P.M. Both sold out. Opens Nov. 17.
''SPEAKING PARTS'' (Canada, 1989); directed by Atom Egoyan; ''Under the Sea'' (United States, 1989), directed by Paul Glabicki. 9:15 P.M. Also Sept. 30, 4 P.M.
 
Sept. 30
''THELONIOUS MONK: STRAIGHT, NO CHASER'' (United States, 1988); directed by Charlotte Zwerin. 7 P.M. Sold out. Opens Oct. 1 at the 57th Street Playhouse.
 
Oct. 1
''THE DOCUMENTATOR'' (Hungary, 1988); directed by Istvan Darday and Gyorgyi Szalai. 1:30 P.M. Also Oct. 2, 6:15 P.M.
''MERCY'' directed by Abigail Child; ''Friendly Witness,'' directed by Warren Sonbert, and ''Water and Power, directed by Pat O'Neill (all United States, 1989). 6 P.M. Sold out.
''LOOKING FOR LANGSTON'' (Britain, 1988); directed by Isaac Julien, and ''Book of Days'' (United States, 1988), directed by Meredith Monk. 9 P.M. Sold out.
 
Oct. 2
''INTOLERANCE'' (United States, 1916); directed by D. W. Griffith. At Avery Fisher Hall, 7:30 P.M.; sold out.
 
Oct. 3
''LIFE AND NOTHING BUT'' (France, 1989); directed by Bertrand Tavernier. 6:15 P.M. Also Oct. 4, 9 P.M. Both sold out.
''CONFESSION: A CHRONICLE OF ALIENATION'' (Soviet Union, 1988); directed by Georgi Gavrilov. 9:30 P.M. Sold out.
 
Oct. 4
''YAABA'' (Burkina Faso, 1988); directed by Idrissa Ouedraogo. 6:15 P.M. Also Oct. 5, 9:15 P.M. Both sold out.
 
Oct. 5
''MONSIEUR HIRE'' (France, 1989); directed by Patrice Leconte. 6:15 P.M. Also Oct. 8, 5 P.M. Both sold out. Opens in the spring.
 
Oct. 6
''A CITY OF SADNESS'' (Taiwan, 1989); directed by Hou Hsiao-Hsien. 6:15 P.M. Also Oct. 8, 8 P.M.
''SWEETIE'' (Australia, 1989); directed by Jane Campion. 9:45 P.M. Also Oct. 8, 2 P.M. Both sold out.
 
Oct. 7
''NEAR DEATH'' (United States, 1989); directed by Frederick Wiseman. 11:30 A.M. ''Current Events,'' directed by Ralph Arlyck, and ''Dreams From China,'' directed by Fred Marx (both United States, 1989). 6:30 P.M.
''DANCING FOR MR. B: SIX BALANCHINE BALLERINAS'' (United States, 1989); directed by Anne Belle and Deborah Dickson. 9:30 P.M. Sold out.
 
Oct. 9
''BREAKING IN'' (United States, 1989); directed by Bill Forsyth. Avery Fisher Hall, 9 P.M. Sold out. Opens Oct. 13.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Carole Bouquet and Gerard Depardieu in ''Too Beautiful for You'' (pg. C1); Han Zenxiang in ''A Tale of the Wind''; Turo Pajala in ''Ariel'' (pg. C22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: NEW YORK FILM FESTIVAL

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CABLE NEWS NETWORK INC (72%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS DOCUMENTARY FILMS (92%); FILM (92%); FESTIVALS (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (67%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN MICHAEL MOORE (58%); 



514 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
The lines were drawn in the House for a bruising fight over taxes, with Democratic leaders scrambling to sell their plan as a boon to the middle class and Republicans asserting that it is just another tax increase. [Page A1.]
Foreign exchange traders and economists will be looking for a new sign of commitment to a stable dollar policy when the United States and its economic allies meet tomorrow in Washington. [D2.] 
The nation's economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the April-June quarter, the Commerce Department said. [D3.]
 
 
 
Companies
Bankers Trust will sell a new issue of ''junk bonds.'' Making quick use of new powers granted by the Fed, it will become the first banking company to manage a public sale of corporate bonds. [D1.]
J. P. Morgan added $2 billion to its reserve against third world loans. It now expects a $1.8 billion quarterly loss. [D1.]
Tiffany's said one of Japan's leading department stores would buy about 10 percent of its public shares. [D1.]
Dow Jones moved to make its ownership of Telerate complete, with an unexpected $576 million offer for the portion of the financial information service now in public hands. [D1.]
Campeau retailing officials denied that three large department stores in their nine retailing chains would soon cut prices. [D2.]
I.B.M. and Baxter Healthcare are forming a partnership to sell software and services to hospitals and physicians. [D4.]
3Com said it earned money after all last quarter. It told analysts last month that it might face a loss. [D4.]
The pilot-management group seeking to buy UAL predicted that the needed debt could be paid off in eight years. [D5.]
Rupert Murdoch will sell his Boston TV station to the group that owns the Boston Celtics. He faced an F.C.C. order to sell either the station or The Boston Herald. [D15.]
An F.T.C. judge ruled that Owens-Illinois violated antitrust laws when it acquired Brockway in April 1988. [D6.]
R. J. Reynolds said it would reduce U.S. cigarette shipments for the rest of the year and eliminate its sales incentives. [D4.]
 
International
Japan's economy is continuing to expand at a robust rate, according to Government figures, adding to a growing labor shortage and increasing inflationary pressures. [D1.]
The head of the I.M.F. said most of the fund's membership supported a substantial increase in the amount it could make available to meet emergency financing needs in the 1990's. [D3.]
 
 
 
Markets
The Chicago Merc will begin an experiment in which some futures trading would take place off the exchange floor. [D1.]
A late burst of program selling depressed stocks, with the Dow losing 3.61 points, to 2,680.28, after being up most of the day. [D6.] Prices of Treasury notes and bonds dipped further. [D12.]
Prices of grain and soybean futures rallied strongly as the markets braced for the first hard freeze in the Midwest. [D13.] The dollar gained ground in quiet trading; gold prices were mixed. [D13.]
Short interest on the New York Stock Exchange slipped 1.3 percent in the four-week period that ended Sept. 15. [D5.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Can Gorbachev turn the Soviet economy around before time runs out on him? Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
If Warren Buffett is borrowing money, does that mean he thinks there are compelling investment opportunities awaiting? No, he said. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]
Paramount and MCA said they would join forces to sell advertising time for the television shows they produce and distribute to local stations. Advertising. [D15.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (54%); OI (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS326160 PLASTICS BOTTLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS326111 PLASTICS BAG & POUCH MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); OWENS-ILLINOIS INC (52%); BOSTON HERALD (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BONDS (90%); CONTUSIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TAX LAW (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FUTURES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); STATISTICS (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); DEBT FINANCING (74%); SALES & SELLING (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); HOSPITALS (69%); HEALTH CARE (69%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (61%); LABOR SHORTAGES (50%); JUDGES (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 



515 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Boom Continues, And It's Creating Problems

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Japan's economy is continuing to expand at a robust rate, according to Government figures released today, adding to a growing labor shortage and increasing inflationary pressures.
Japan's gross national product slowed slightly after a first-quarter surge, but compared with the quarter a year earlier it expanded by 4.8 percent, the Economic Planning Agency reported. Economists expect the economy to grow at a booming 5 percent rate this year, which would make it the third consecutive year of such rapid expansion.
The Japanese economy's remarkable strength sends two messages to the Western industrial economies. On the one hand, it is likely to raise imports and keep upward pressure on domestic interest rates and the yen, which the United States in particular has sought. Yet much of the high growth is being fueled by a huge increase in capital investment, which is likely to make Japan an even more formidable economic contender. 
Still, the high growth is also creating problems for the Japanese. To some, including the Bank of Japan, the expansion is causing concern that the economy is overheating, and it is leaving numerous companies scrambling to find workers.
''This is really more than the economy can handle,'' said Eric Rasmussen, an economist at Jardine Fleming Securities. ''Without some restructuring, I don't think they can let it grow at this rate.''
One important factor stimulating the boom is an enormous surge in capital spending by Japanese companies. Capital investment reached nearly 23 percent of the gross national product in the first half of the year, the highest level ever recorded here, according to a study by Deutsche Bank.
Economists said the slowdown from the first three months of the year was not significant because it was attributable to the introduction of a 3 percent consumption tax that took effect on April 1. The tax prompted a shopping spree in advance and then a lull in consumption afterward.
That is expected to right itself in the third quarter. In fact, today's news prompted Taiki Saito, senior economist at the Yamaichi Research Institute, to forecast a year-to-year increase in the gross national product of more than 10 percent during the third quarter.
In one sign of the pressure on prices, the wholesale price index rose by nearly 3 percent in August from the period a year earlier. While not threatening in itself, it followed a decline in the index of nearly 1 percent in the fiscal year 1988, and a fall of 2 percent in 1987.
 
Hints of a Rate Rise
Senior officials at the Bank of Japan have dropped numerous hints in recent days that they may soon raise the official discount rate to cool the economy. It would be the second increase this year, and would follow a steady upswing in market interest rates in the last several months, which the bank has clearly sanctioned.
''We will take suitable actions at suitable times to check excessive activities by corporations and households,'' the Bank of Japan governor, Satoshi Sumita, said yesterday.
The central bankers have also indicated that they would intervene heavily in the currency market to weaken the dollar, because its strength has been adding significantly to inflationary pressures here.
But one of the more telling and potentially troubling features of the economic surge is a severe labor shortage, which the Labor Ministry has estimated at more than two million workers.
The number of want ads is the highest in 15 years and tens of thousands of workers are entering the country illegally. The construction industry, in particular, has been so hard hit that companies are reportedly going to the job sites of competitors and hiring away entire teams.
As a result, the incomes of workers jumped 5.5 percent in the second quarter from the period a year earlier, the Economic Planning Agency said today.
 
A Sensitive Issue
In a country that prizes its ethnic homogeneity, the issue of bringing in foreign workers is sensitive. But companies are so desperate that they have been willing to skirt the laws and social pressures.
One economist said he knew of a textile company that had brought several dozen Thai workers into the country as ''trainees.'' The police detained the operators of a language school today on suspicion that they had supplied forged documents that would allow their ''students'' to work in the country. The Labor Ministry estimates there are some 150,000 illegal workers in Japan.
Some companies have become involved in the issue of whether Japan should repatriate boat people arriving from Southeast Asia.
Earlier this week, in another symbolic response to the problem, the Justice Minister, Masao Goto, said he would consider easing the ministry's traditional opposition to accepting unskilled foreign workers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); JARDINE FLEMING SECURITIES (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); PRICES; SHORTAGES; LABOR LABOR SHORTAGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); TRENDS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES



516 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Campeau Denies Rumors of Price Cuts at 3 Chains

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
Retailing officials of the Campeau Corporation denied yesterday that three of the largest department stores in their nine retailing chains would soon cut prices to raise money for the troubled company.
Some who follow the industry had expected that the Campeau stores would need to cut prices quickly to build the cash flow. But this was denied by the officials, supply market executives and a merchandise liquidator.
The American retailing arm of Campeau, the Canadian developer that borrowed heavily to buy Federated Department Stores Inc. and the Allied Stores Corporation over the last three years, experienced a serious cash squeeze last week that was only alleviated by a $250 million loan from Olympia & York Developments Ltd., another big Canadian developer. 
 
No Effort Planned
Despite the belief by some suppliers that the loan is inadequate for more than a few weeks' needs, which might have prompted the expectations of price cutting, the senior management of three Campeau retail chains in the East - Abraham & Straus, Bloomingdale's and Stern's -said they had no plans to cut prices beyond promotions that had been planned before the financial crisis. The current sales trend, they said uniformly, is good enough not to require any additional price promotions.
The three chains together account for nearly $3 billion in annual sales.
Their executives said yesterday that they had expected the price-cutting climate through and during Christmas to be normal, changing only if the present favorable sales trend deteriorated. ''There is no pressure to add cash flow at the expense of profit margins, so we are not planning to slash prices,'' said Chaim Y. Edelstein, the chairman of Abraham & Straus, which has 15 stores in New York and New Jersey.
He said that September sales of A.& S. stores that were at least a year old were running ''well into a two-digit gain'' over the same month last year. This does not include the new A.& S. Plaza store at Greeley Square in midtown Manhattan that opened on Sept. 14 and, according to Mr. Edelstein, is ''doing excellently.''
Retail executives close to A.& S. estimated that the new store was faring so well that their estimates of $100 million to $120 million in annual sales were being raised to $140 million.
''I don't think that the events of the last few days dictate any reason for a desperate price-cutting situation,'' Mr. Edelstein said. ''One runs a business according to a sales trend and, if there is pressure, it is to maintain an already-good sales trend.''
Lawrence Stone, the chairman and chief executive of the 24 Stern's stores in New York and New Jersey, said: ''Our business is much better than last year, when women's apparel sales were awful. Now, it is very good, as are men's wear and children's wear.''
 
'No Reason for It'
He said that Stern's, which is already well known for its promotional pricing, did not plan any additional price cuts. ''There's no reason for it. We are producing enough cash flow to accommodate our needs.''
Besides the three Eastern store groups, Campeau also owns Bon Marche in Seattle, Rich's in Atlanta, Jordan Marsh in Boston, Burdine's in Miami, Maas Brothers in Tampa and Lazarus in five Midwestern states.
Separately, the Standard & Poor's Corporation said yesterday that, after the proposed divestiture of the 17 Bloomingdale's stores owned by Campeau, it might still downgrade the single-B senior debt and CCC subordinated debt ratings of Federated and Allied. The ratings remain unchanged. About $3.2 billion in securities are involved. Standard & Poor's added that Allied's CCC preferred stock rating was affirmed.
Campeau said earlier this month that it would sell Bloomingdale's to help with its cash problems.
 
No Diversions by Suppliers
One fallacy behind the expectation of imminent price cuts at the Campeau stores was the belief that the four-day supplier holdup of shipments during the company's cash squeeze would cause suppliers to divert deliveries to other, non-Campeau stores at cheaper prices. These stores, in turn, would supposedly sell them at drastically reduced prices. But such a diversion did not happen, an executive at Bloomingdale's said. ''Shipments have virtually returned to normal from Seventh Avenue.''
The executive, who asked not to be named, said that meetings yesterday with store buyers representing more than 100 departments found that only one supplier still had not resumed shipping goods. Bloomingdale's has 17 stores in New York, Illinois and Texas.
He added that the chain's business was good enough in most areas such that no additional price slashing beyond what was planned weeks ago was needed.
But the executive and the other Campeau retailers said that some of the stores might advance clearances by several weeks in such areas as swimwear, shoes or domestics, if sales slackened.
 
Pointing to High Debt
Executives familiar with the company said yesterday that the cash squeeze was not caused by inadequate sales or cash receipts in the stores. They said the parent company had found itself facing high interest and principal payments on its $9 billion debt and used the stores' working capital to pay it down.
''Right now, the mood among the Federated or Allied stores is not to dump goods,'' said Victor Ringel, the president of Opportunities Plus in Port Chester, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (93%); CAMPEAU CORP (91%); ALLIED STORES CORP (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMPEAU CORP; BLOOMINGDALE'S; STERNS; ABRAHAM & STRAUS

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; FINANCES RETAILERS (92%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); TRENDS (87%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (50%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE CHAIM Y EDELSTEIN (59%); 



517 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Stabilizing the Dollar;
Coordination Process of Group of 7 Is Under Pressure as Allies Convene

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Foreign exchange traders and economists will be looking for a new sign of commitment to a stable dollar policy when the United States and its economic allies meet tomorrow in Washington.
In July, at an economic summit meeting in Paris, the dollar was pretty much ignored in the final communique.
Now the allies, known as the Group of Seven, will convene at the gathering of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. And if another meeting of the group comes and goes without a reaffirmation of the group's intent to maintain a stable dollar, the coordination process, already under strain, would be undermined even more. 
On the other hand, a reaffirmation, including some backup dollar selling followed by an interest-rate shift, could restore some punch.
 
Inability to Keep Dollar in Check
This summer, the Group of Seven, which is made up of the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada, seems to have lost its ability to keep the dollar in a narrow range. Except for a brief respite in July, the dollar has been untamable, roaming outside its ceilings and undermining the credibility of the group's policy of stabilizing the dollar and the effectiveness of its economic coordination.
What has weakened the coordination process is that the domestic economic concerns of the United States and its allies, for at least the moment, have overshadowed worry about the dollar. The Federal Reserve is worried about inflation and a stronger-than-expected economy. The West Germans and the Japanese are on the fence - not wanting to dampen growth but still keeping their eyes on inflation.
This domestic focus makes it more difficult to coordinate the economic policy moves needed to restrain the dollar, like the lowering of interest rates here and increases abraod. David C. Mulford, Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, acknowledged this difficulty in a speech last week.
 
Intervention Less Effective
Substantial dollar intervention - a record $12 billion in selling by the Federal Reserve alone from May through July - has not been so effective as in the past because it is not backed up with the clear threat of coordinated changes in economic policy.
The dollar, at 1.9439 marks and 145.65 yen yesterday, is above the ceiling of 1.90 marks and 140 yen set by the Group of Seven. It shot past the 2-mark level in May and again in June and the 150-yen level in June. It breached the 2-mark level briefly last Friday but fell sharply on unsubstantiated rumors, including one that the President had been shot. With the market's eye on the Group of Seven meeting, it has yet to recover. But many traders and economists expect the dollar to make another run at 2 marks soon.
Because of the summer's experience, some economists have concluded that the coordination process, which started with the agreement at the Plaza Hotel in 1985 to drive down the value of the dollar, has fallen apart.
''The G-7 coordination process is in a shambles,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington, adding that the United States is not providing the needed leadership.
Others argue that cooperation is not dead but more limited in impact now. They say that if the economy slows here and the Fed eases interest rates, the dollar will fall some and it will look as if cooperation is more effective.
''Coordination is not dead,'' said John Lipsky, director of international bond trading for Salomon Brothers in London. ''But this year we have certainly seen the limits of the G-7 process.''
Right now in the United States, the Fed has stopped the easing of interest rates that the central bank began in June. This came in response to revisions in economic data for earlier this summer that showed the economy to be stronger than expected.
 
Policy Tension in West Germany
In West Germany, Mr. Lipsky said, there is tension over policy, but it appears that the Government does not want to raise interest rates now. He said that recent inflation and money supply figures did not justify a tightening of policy by raising interest rates, which could help weaken the dollar. He added, however, that later this year or early next the West Germans might re-evaluate this stance.
Japan has voiced the loudest objections to the stronger dollar, both through central bank dollar selling and comments from officials. Satoshi Sumita, governor of the Bank of Japan, said Wednesday that the bank was willing to tolerate market-led interest rate rises. But this could be more jawboning of the market. Mr. Sumita would not say if Japan and West Germany would take the critical step of a coordinated, official increase in interest rates.
Adding to the complexity of policy making, some analysts say, the United States Treasury does not want the West Germans and Japanese to raise interest rates now because that would slow their economies, cut the sales of American exports and slow the decline of the trade deficit.
The resulting policy coordination weakness has been magnified by the fundamental strength of the dollar, which has been supported by relatively high interest rates here, confidence in the American economy that has attracted foreign investment in stocks and bonds and the political instability in Japan, China, Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. This underlying strength makes any coordinated policy of intervention and interest rates changes less effective.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (90%); GERMANY (87%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: FOREIGN EXCHANGE LTD (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); SHOOTINGS (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



518 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: G.N.P. Growth in 2d Quarter Revised to 2.5% From 2.7%

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
The nation's economy grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the April-June quarter, slightly lower than previously estimated, the Commerce Department said today.
The department said lower domestic spending more than offset gains in trade, causing the modest revision in the second-quarter gross national product figure. The previous estimate had put the quarter's growth rate at 2.7 percent. 
The third and final G.N.P. figure, based on a number of statistical reports and adjusted for inflation, compared with 3.7 percent growth in the first quarter. The second-quarter growth was the lowest since the final quarter of 1986, when the economy grew by 2.3 percent, department officials said.
The economy, growing at a 3.1 percent rate in the first six months of the year, needs to rise at a rate of at least 2.3 percent in the rest of the year for the Bush Administration to reach its target of 2.7 percent growth for 1989.
''They've got it,'' said Donald Ratajczak, an economist at Georgia State University, who predicts about 2.5 percent growth in the second half.
Today's report had little effect on the financial markets. Many investors are awaiting Friday's report on consumer spending in August and Tuesday's report on durable goods to get a better feel for the economy's direction.
On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve Board issued an overall review of the economy that said growth continued at a slow to modest rate.
In a report today, the Fed said that corporate profits fell 7.2 percent in the second quarter, compared with the previously estimated drop of 5.4 percent. The decline was the second consecutive quarterly drop and was the biggest since the first quarter of 1986, when profits fell 16.5 percent.
The economy's slower growth has helped keep inflation under control. The G.N.P. implicit price deflator, a broad measure of inflation, rose 4.6 percent during the second quarter after running at 4.0 percent in the first quarter, but inflation has cooled since then, tempered by lower oil prices.

GRAPHIC: Graphs of gross national product & total corporate profits after taxes from '85-'89 (source: Commerce Dept.) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (GNP); CORPORATIONS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); 



519 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Most I.M.F. Members Ask Aid Rise

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
The head of the International Monetary Fund said today that most of the fund's membership supported a substantial increase in the amount it could make available to meet emergency financing needs in the 1990's. The United States, however, does not. The managing director, Michel Camdessus, said at a news conference that 19 of the executive board's 22 members, representing 70 percent of the weighted vote in the I.M.F., supported an increase of at least two-thirds in the $120 billion pool of gold and currencies that is used to help countries deal with economic crises. 
But to go ahead with the increase, the I.M.F. would need the consensus of all its principal members. The other dissenters are Britain and Saudi Arabia.
Mr. Camdessus's willingness to disclose details of usually confidential board positions was expected to sharpen the growing debate over resources, which are technically known as quotas, as the membership gathers here for the joint annual meeting of the I.M.F. and its sister lending agency, the World Bank.
 
'Unexpected Problems'
''I am comforted by this vote of confidence,'' said the former French central banker who has headed the 152-nation organization for the last two and a half years. He is pressing for a doubling of its resources.
Noting the oil crises of the 1970's and the debt crises of the 1980's, he said he could not predict what the next crisis would be, but added, ''We know we are living in a dangerous and unstable universe and that we will have unexpected problems.''
Mr. Camdessus is hoping to achieve agreement on an increase at the coming meeting. But experts do not rate the chances as high in view of the position of the Bush Administration, worried, among other things, about the rising volume of overdue I.M.F. debt and the prospects of selling a quota increase to Congress. Washington has said it hopes to reach a consensus on the issue before the end of the year.
However, Mr. Camdessus has an unusually powerful ally in Japan, which is anxious to conclude an agreement because it would almost certainly be linked to a change in its voting strength within the organization.
Japan, which has the world's second-highest gross national product and is the world's biggest creditor as well as aid donor, would probably move from fifth to second position behind the United States. Britain is now No. 2, followed by West Germany and France. Japan is already the second-most-influential country in the World Bank.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Michel Camdessus, the head of the International Monetary Fund (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (76%); GERMANY (50%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREAT BRITAIN; SAUDI ARABIA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); 

PERSON: CAMDESSUS, MICHEL



520 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: 3Com Posts A Profit, After All

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Last month, when the 3Com Corporation told analysts it could not rule out the possibility of a quarterly loss, the widespread perception was that the company had finally hit the wall.
Today, 3Com, the leading maker of microcomputer networks, said it did earn money after all, but its reported profits still represented a sharp decline.
For the quarter that ended on Aug. 31, 3Com earned $1.2 million, or 4 cents a share, down by 83 percent from $7.1 million, or 25 cents a share, in the period a year ago. Its sales rose by 8.6 percent, to $89.1 million from $82 million. 
The shares of 3Com, which had fallen from a high of $28 to about $12.50 after the earlier announcement, closed unchanged today at $13.50 in over-the-counter trading.
 
Various Factors in Decline
Factors internal and industrywide account for 3Com's fall from the trajectory that took it from $19 million in sales in 1984 to $386 million in 1989, analysts say. Microcomputer sales are in a slump, which has affected sales of equipment to link those machines in local area networks. 3Com also entered this period lacking vital new products, compounding the problem, the analysts say.
This is partly because 3Com, based in Mountain View, Calif., has been focusing on becoming a company that sells complete computer systems rather than just networking components. While this is a good long-term strategy, it represents a difficult transition. Some of the analysts say that diverting resources toward systems development has left the company vulnerable in core products, like network adaptors, which still account for half its sales.
When the company first said it might have its first loss in five years, L. William Krause, 3Com's chairman, president and chief executive, cited a general economic slowdown, a lack of new products and - with unusual candor - his inattention while busy building a house and serving as the chairman of the American Electronic Association, an industry group.
He now thinks the earnings forecast was a tactical error. ''We're not going to make projections anymore,'' he said. ''We're just going to report results.'' Mr. Krause says this change is one part of the company's growing up; the other is its shift from selling network components to selling complete systems.
 
Established in 1979
Founded in 1979, 3Com began by selling adaptor boards and other equipment that linked personal computers to a network. 3Com has been quick to adopt new standards and to move into new areas of the market.
Companies have a ''huge investment in mainframe architecture, but the economies are in the microprocessor machines,'' like PC's and file servers, Mr. Krause said. 3Com's forte has been linking machines from different manufacturers, providing ''multi-vendor compatibility.''
It is 3Com's intent now to supply the broadest array of the parts itself, while still providing links to other makers' machines. ''Customers are very comfortable buying our client/ server system because it's open,'' he said.
William K. Becklean, an analyst with Kidder, Peabody & Company in Boston, said that 3Com's shift ''is a tough strategy, but they don't have a lot of choice.''
''3Com can't really afford to remain a component supplier because the parts are rapidly becoming commodities,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (52%); SIC6062 CREDIT UNIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (96%); AMERICAN ELECTRONIC ASSOCIATION CREDIT UNION (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: 3COM CORP

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS SALES FIGURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (72%); NETWORK SERVERS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 



521 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Chief Executive Quits At First Bank System

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
The First Bank System, Minnesota's largest banking company, yesterday announced the resignation of DeWalt H. Ankeny Jr. as chairman, president and chief executive.
The bank, which has reported loan problems and losses on interest-rate gambles, announced plans earlier this week to trim jobs and get out of some riskier businesses.
''Given the challenges the organization faces,'' Mr. Ankeny, 56 years old, said in a statement, ''I've determined that it is in the best interest of shareholders and employees that I resign.'' 
The board named Darrell G. Knudson, 52, the current vice chairman, to the additional post of acting chief executive.
First Bank, the 28th-largest banking company in the United States, on Monday announced a restructuring in which it said it might cut 2,100 jobs, or 20 percent of its work force. It said it was forced to make an early announcement because of rumors about the Minneapolis-based bank.
The bank said the shake-up could result in a charge against third-quarter earnings of up to $40 million and could cut assets by $2 billion.
First Bank plans to concentrate on business in the upper Midwest and Northwest and to eliminate or scale back corporate banking to lower its risk. It has reported problems with loans made to finance leveraged buyouts.
The company's problems began last year after it gambled on the direction of interest rates, losing $300 million after it sold $4.6 billion of bonds from its $8 billion investment portfolio. The loss prompted the resignation of Dennis E. Evans, First Bank's president.
First Bank reported this week that domestic nonperforming loans were expected to increase as a result of problems with a few loans in its $738 million portfolio of leveraged transactions.
''Banks face two major risks,'' Kenneth F. Puglisi, a banking analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc., said. ''They are interest-rate risk and credit risk, and First Bank System has been troubled by both of them.''
Neither Mr. Ankeny nor Mr. Knudsen was available yesterday, the bank said. Mr. Ankeny has led the bank for the last four years and has been associated with it since 1967. Earlier, he was a marketing and sales executive with the Theodore Hamm brewery.
Under Mr. Ankeny, First Bank sought to expand in the Northwest but lost out in 1987 in a $1 billion bid to acquire the Rainier Bancorporation of Seattle.
Mr. Knudsen's career with the bank goes back 31 years. He became vice chairman in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (64%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (73%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST BANK SYSTEM INC

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS EXECUTIVES (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (70%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); 

PERSON: ANKENY, DEWALT H JR; KNUDSON, DARRELL G; CUFF, DANIEL F DARRELL G KNUDSON (71%); 



522 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Dow Drops 3.61 Points, To 2,680.28

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
A late spurt of program selling depressed stocks yesterday in continued moderate trading.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which had hovered between 5 and 10 points higher most of the day, finished 3.61 points lower, at 2,680.28.
The broader market also reversed its daylong trend, with declines on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbering advances, 750 to 677. At the same time, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.77, to 345.70. The other basic barometer of the market's breadth, the New York Stock Exchange composite index, dipped 0.29, to 192.16. 
Volume on the Big Board continued pedestrian, although it rose to 146.9 million shares, from 136.6 million on Wednesday.
There seemed to be little impact from the report by the Commerce Department before the opening of trading that the nation's gross national product rose at an adjusted annual rate of 2.5 percent in the second quarter.
''The Dow made a run at 2,700 but this proved difficult to accomplish in the face of a sluggish bond market and nervousness over the near-term direction of the dollar,'' said Peter G. Grennan, head of stock index futures trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton. ''These two factors continue to weigh on the stock market and erode traders' confidence.''
 
Transportation Average
The Dow transportation average gained 8.53 points, to 1,465.86, largely on the strength of airline issues like AMR. The parent of American Airlines, which introduced higher fares earlier this week, rose 3 3/8, to 81 7/8. Delta Air Lines, which said yesterday that it planned to match the increases in discount fares introduced by American, gained 1/2, to 73 1/8. UAL, parent of United Airlines, gained 1 1/4, to 286 1/4.
Mr. Grennan said any strength in the market could be attributed to the onset of ''window dressing as the end of the quarter approaches.''
Money center banks showed strength over the possibilities of the successful steps being taken this week in Washington to resolve the problem of loans to third world countries. Citicorp gained 3/4, to 31 3/4, and Chase Manhattan added 1/2, to 40.
Among active blue-chip stocks, A.T.&T. gained 7/8, to 42 3/4, and Burlington Resources rose 1 5/8. to 49 5/8.
 
Most Active Issue
Telerate was the most active issue on the Big Board, soaring 5 1/4, to 20 3/8, on a volume of nearly 2.8 million shares. The company said two independent directors would study the $18-a-share buyout offer by Dow Jones & Company for the third of Telerate it does not already own.
Puerto Rican Cement was the biggest dollar gainer, rising 6 points, to 57 1/2. The gain came in the wake of the devastation to Puerto Rico by Hurricane Hugo.
Kollmorgen fell 5 1/4, to 18 3/8. Vernitron said it no longer wanted to proceed with a $25-a-share takeover of the company.
In over-the-counter trading, the Nasdaq composite index tacked on 0.28, to 467.00, while on the American Stock Exchange, the Amex market value index rose 0.90, to 380.04.
Adobe Systems plunged 4 1/8, to 15 5/8, in heavy over-the-counter trading. Traders said investors feared a severe drop in business because of potential competition from new Apple Computer/Microsoft Corporation computer technology.
In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225-stock index rebounded after Wednesday's decline, gaining 274.44 points to close at 34,745.02.

GRAPHIC: Favorite Stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYS)

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BONDS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (76%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (54%); 

PERSON: WIGGINS, PHILLIP H



523 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Issues Decline Slightly

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds dipped further in moderately active trading yesterday as concerns about upcoming auctions of new issues prompted traders to sell securities.
''Two of the themes that encouraged people to buy last week, jitters in the junk bond market and a strong dollar, seem to have receded in importance,'' said James R. Capra, a senior vice president at Shearson Lehman Government Securities. ''In the absence of that sort of support, the inclination is to sell in advance of new supply.''
Next week, the Treasury is expected to auction $9.75 billion worth of new two-year notes and $7.75 billion worth of new four-year notes. And yesterday, it auctioned $9.5 billion of new one-year bills. 
Yesterday's auction went about as expected, traders said. The average rate on the new bills sold was 7.61 percent, down slightly from the 7.68 percent average rate at the last one-year bill auction on Aug. 24. 2-Year Notes at 8.24% Late yesterday, the two-year notes to be sold on Tuesday were offered on a when-issued basis at a price to yield 8.24 percent. Meanwhile, the four-year notes, which will be auctioned Wednesday, were offered in when-issued trading at a price to yield 8.20 percent.
Prices of secondary Treasury issues initially moved higher during trading in overseas markets, spurred by buying from Japanese and Middle Eastern investors. But the gains could not be sustained once trading shifted to the United States.
A revised Commerce Department report on economic output in the second quarter, which showed the economy grew at a 2.5 percent rate on an inflation-adjusted basis, somewhat slower than the 2.7 percent rate that had previously been reported, had no impact on the fixed-income market.
In late trading, the Treasury's 8 1/8 percent bonds that mature in 2019 were offered at a price of 99 11/32, down a quarter-point, to yield 8.18 percent.
Among secondary note issues, the 8 percent 10-year notes were offered at 98 23/32, down 6/32, to yield 8.19 percent. And the 8 1/4 percent five-year notes were offered at 100 9/32, down 5/32, to yield 8.17 percent.
 
Bill Rates Up a Bit
Treasury bill rates were marginally higher. By late in the day, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 7.81 percent, up one basis point, or hundredth of a point. Six-month bills rose by a similar amount, to a late offered rate of 7.67 percent.
The report on the gross national product offered little to suggest the economy had lost additional momentum as it started the third quarter, according to Mark Green, an economist at MMS International, an economic information services and forecasting concern in Belmont, Calif.
''We think the economy will grow at a 2 percent to 2.5 percent rate for the rest of this year, and slow a bit from that level as 1990 gets under way,'' he said. ''We also think that Fed policy will remain on hold for the balance of the year, even though our surveys show that most people are expecting further easing moves.''
Elsewhere, trading in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate securities was light, dealers said. Prices of most issues dropped by about a quarter-point.
Prices of high-yield ''junk bonds'' were unchanged to off a half-point, market participants said.
Issues of Owens-Illinois Inc. fell by four to five points early in the day, after an official of the Federal Trade Commission announced a potentially adverse ruling against the company on its 1988 acquisition of Brockway Inc., a rival maker of glass containers. But prices recovered later in the session when the company said it would appeal the ruling.
In the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds, prices fell by about a quarter-point in light trading, dealers said.
Late yesterday the Federal Reserve Board reported that all three measures of the nation's money supply rose in the week ended Sept. 11. The report had no impact in the credit markets.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of one-year Treasury bills:

GRAPHIC: Graphs of tax-exempt yields (June-Sept. '89) (source: The Bond Buyer) & 1-year treasury bills (June '88-Sept. '89) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY, DEPARTMENT OF THE; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DOLLAR (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (75%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



524 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1989

SECTION: Section D; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up in Quiet Session; Gold Prices Post Small Rise

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar gained ground against the major currencies in quiet trading yesterday.
Gold prices were unchanged to slightly higher. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold finished at $365.50 an ounce, up 60 cents from Wednesday. 
Currency traders continued to adjust their positions ahead of this weekend's meeting in Washington of the Group of Seven finance ministers and central bankers. The Group of Seven is made up of the United States, Japan, West Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada.
Although dealers were divided over whether any new initiatives would result from the meeting, the underlying sentiment toward the dollar remained bullish.
Recent statements by Japanese and West German officials indicated some concern about the dollar's strength. But a regularly scheduled meeting of Bundesbank officials yesterday ended with no increase in West German interest rates, contrary to what some traders had expected.
Some traders are anticipating higher West German and Japanese interest rates in tandem with softer rates in the United States, a scenario that would depress the dollar.
''That would take away the interest-rate differential, which is sustaining the demand for dollars,'' said Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company.
The dollar failed to respond yesterday to the Commerce Department's downward revision in the second-quarter gross national product. The Government put economic growth at a moderate 2.5 percent during the April-June period.
''The technicals are bearish, and you would think the momentum would be on the downside,'' said Linda McLaughlin, a trader at Chemical New York Capital Markets Group. 'But it looks like we're having real difficulty getting the dollar lower.''
In late New York trading, the dollar closed at 145.65 yen, up from 145.10 yen on Wednesday. And one pound cost $1.5790, less expensive than Wednesday's $1.5835.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Wednesday, included: 1.9439 West German marks, up from 1.9397; 1.6835 Swiss francs, up from 1.6815; 6.5740 French francs, up from 6.5560; 1,400.25 Italian lire, up from 1,399.00, and 1.1830 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1833.
On the Comex, silver closed at $5.181 an ounce, up from $5.119 on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURERS HANOVER CORP (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (94%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); GERMAN MARK (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); 



525 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Third World Debt Woes;
Major U.S. Banks, After Absorbing Losses, Could Lose Their Appetite for New Loans

BYLINE: By SARAH BARTLETT

 BODY:
J. P. Morgan & Company's surprise decision Thursday to drastically increase its financial cushion against bad loans to third world countries raises new questions about how those countries will escape their severe economic problems.
Morgan's action, which increases its reserves to cover 100 percent of its medium- and long-term loans to debtor nations, makes it less likely the bank will participate in any new lending. The latest Mexican financial package, for instance, calls for at least $2 billion in new loans over four years. Since Morgan is a large and prestigious institution, its position on that issue could influence the stance of other banks. 
The move by Morgan poses a challenge to the policies of Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, who called in March for a combination of debt relief and new loans to deal with the debt crisis. And the challenge comes just as the world's top central bankers, finance ministers and commercial lenders are gathering in Washington for the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.
At the time he announced his bank's $2 billion reserve, Lewis T. Preston, Morgan's chairman, criticized Mr. Brady's initiative, saying it raised unrealistic expectations in third world countries and did not provide enough money to encourage banks to grant debt relief.
Earlier in the week, when the Chase Manhattan Corporation and the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation also made $1 billion additions to their reserves for third world loans, they displayed a similar unhappiness with the Brady plan.
The increased reserves mean that there will be less of an impact on bank earnings if the loans are not repaid; but even with full protection, a bank continues trying to collect on its loans.
A Morgan spokesman acknowledged yesterday that the increase in loan-loss reserves means that Morgan is less likely to make new loans, although it has not ruled out that possibility. But having decided that 100 percent is an appropriate level of reserves, Morgan would have to set aside an additional dollar for every new dollar it lends. ''It would be rather costly,'' the spokesman said.
Moreover, having 100 percent coverage makes it easier for Morgan to simply get out of the business of third world lending altogether. Indeed, Morgan said it will have sold $500 million of its loans by the end of this month.
One senior lender at a large bank said: ''This allows Morgan to say to the Treasury, 'You cannot tell us what to do.' They have reclaimed their independence.''
By contrast, banks that cannot afford to write off their loans have a greater incentive to continue lending, in hopes that the countries will continue servicing their debt.
 
'An Element of Reality'
A senior Treasury official said yesterday that the Administration welcomed the decision by banks to increase their financial cushion, because it would enable them to afford more loan write-offs. ''The important thing to bear in mind,'' he said, ''is that the Brady plan has introduced an element of reality into the debt process.''
But some bankers and policy analysts said yesterday that there was a distinct possibility that for a country like Mexico the ''reality'' could be the worst possible situation: getting a financial package that does not offer enough debt relief to make a real difference while facing a banking community that has sufficient reserves to turn its back on third world lending.
If Mexico's cash problems grow more severe, there would be an increased likelihood that American taxpayers would eventually have to pay for a rescue.
Morgan's reserve action pits it against Citicorp's chairman, John S. Reed, who favors both debt relief and new lending. It was Mr. Reed who started the move to increase loan-loss reserves in May 1987 with the announcement that Citicorp was adding $3 billion to its coverage. 2 Chairmen in Conflict At the time, Mr. Preston was said to be bitterly opposed to the Citicorp strategy, because he feared it would encourage debtor countries to forgo their obligations, and would divide the banking community. Since that time, many debtor nations have indeed stopped paying interest. With Morgan's step on Thursday, Mr. Preston seemed to be saying that the things he warned against have come to pass.
''This is a hell of a high-stakes game to be playing,'' said an official of another bank. ''These two guys are battling it out, but the few of us caught in the middle are the ones getting bloodied.''
The issue of new lending is at the heart of the debate over the success or failure of the Brady plan. For years academics have recommended debt reduction as a solution, on the ground that new bank loans were being extended only to insure that third world countries could continue making interest payments to the banks.
 
Breaking With Baker
Debt reduction finally won some official support last March, when Mr. Brady broke with his predecessor, James A. Baker 3d, and gave it an endorsement. Since then, however, Mr. Brady has sent out conflicting signals by stressing that new lending is also important if the cash needs of countries like Mexico are to be met. The countries need the money for a variety of reasons, including paying their interest on old debt and financing economic development.
Of course, if debt reduction occurred on a large-enough scale, new money might not be needed.
''Let's not pretend inadequate debt reduction should be covered up with new lending,'' said Jeffrey Sachs, a professor of economics at Harvard. ''Let's get adequate debt reduction.'' But banks have been unwilling to grant large-scale debt relief because they have demanded some form of guarantee on their remaining loans. And the money that has been made available to provide those guarantees, largely from the I.M.F. and the World Bank, has not been sufficient to cover more than limited relief.
 
Fears of a Cash Shortage
Mexican Government officials have said that their greatest concern about the financial package negotiated this summer is that not enough banks will make new loans available and that they could suffer cash shortages, a point that officials of the Federal Reserve and Citicorp have also privately emphasized to bankers.
While Morgan may not plan to make new loans to the third world, it does see good business opportunities there. It was clear from Morgan's statement on Thursday that it intends to offer itself as an adviser to third world governments and companies and to act as an intermediary in loan sales and swaps. A bank official said that with its 100 percent reserve, Morgan, unlike other major banks, would no longer have a conflict in advising enterprises in third world countries.
''To be an adviser, you have to be disinterested,'' the official said.

GRAPHIC: graph of U.S. Bank's third world debt (Source: Salomon Bros.) (pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN, J P, & CO

SUBJECT: CREDIT; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); DEBTOR NATIONS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TRENDS (73%); 



526 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: New York Tax Cut Delay Means a Tax Increase

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has in a radio interview finally come out in the open on his proposal to defer implementing the tax-cut package adopted by New York State in 1987 (news story, Aug. 23). In my view, the Governor is dead wrong on this issue. 
When the Governor talks about delaying the next phase of the tax cut, he is actually embracing a tax increase. Delaying the cut will give him more money to spend on favored programs in a year in which he is up for re-election, and it will come out of the pockets of New York's taxpayers.
When the tax-cut package is fully implemented, the top tax rate on personal income will be 7 percent, still high compared with the average top rate in neighboring states, 2.7 percent for paycheck income. If anything, the Governor should be trying to set the stage for further tax reductions.
The Governor speaks of the dire need for more money to combat crime, improve education and attain other goals. The answer is to cut elsewhere to finance these projects, not raise taxes. A tax increase in New York is especially inappropriate because the state has failed to get spending under control. Since Governor Cuomo took office, state spending (excluding Federal money) increased 88.8 percent, compared with inflation of only 28.2 percent. This year, which was supposed to be an austerity year, state spending still increased by 8 percent.
New Yorkers are not undertaxed; New York's government overspends.
 
(State Senator) JOSEPH L. BRUNO
 Albany, Aug. 30, 1989
The writer is chairman, New York State Legislative Commission on Public-Private Cooperation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES TAX RELIEF (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (70%); 

PERSON: BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV)



527 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: Same Old Same Old Deficit

 BODY:
The Federal budget taking shape for 1990 will scale new heights of hypocrisy. The Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law requires deficit reduction each year and President Bush and Congress are doing their best to make it appear they've complied. In truth, they're still playing games. 
The House has passed all 13 annual money bills, but the Senate has several yet to finish. House and Senate conferees have reconciled their differences on only one bill, for the Energy Department and water projects. But beyond that one, Congress hasn't appropriated one dime for the new fiscal year, which begins in eight days.
Congress may bundle everything into one gigantic bill and shoot it to the White House at the last minute, as it did two years ago. That, in itself, would parody the deliberative process; it would give the President no choice but to sign or veto the entire package. It's also possible that Congress will miss the deadline altogether, forcing the President to order across-the-board spending cuts to conform to the deficit target - but those cuts could be restored later when Congress finally acts.
Mr. Bush set the pattern for this year's obfuscation in his February budget message. He embraced President Reagan's fiction that the Government would reap new billions from asset sales and user fees. And he added a trick or two of his own - like removing the Postal Service deficit from the budget. Even when he and Congressional leaders came to terms on an outline in April, they agreed on $5 billion of new revenue but agreed not at all on how to raise it.
The crucial $5 billion question remains. Mr. Bush still insists that he would veto any new taxes. But he presses the alluring notion of an immediate revenue windfall by cutting the tax on capital gains, now approved by the House Ways and Means Committee. The Democratic leadership rightly remains dead set against cutting the gains tax; it would favor the wealthy and, after the windfall, would actually increase the deficit.
More blatant falsification comes in the ''off-budget'' savings and loan bailout. This Bush proposal avoids the appearance of adding to the deficit but actually adds billions. And then there's the old device of making the deficit look smaller by coloring the economic outlook; this time the Administration wishfully forecasts lower interest rates, which would mean paying less interest on the national debt.
All this horsing around is done in the name of compliance with the mischievous Gramm-Rudman-Hollings anti-deficit law. Theoretically, it requires that the 1990 deficit be cut to $110 billion. Actually, it requires only an official estimate, on Oct. 15, that the target will be met. As far as the law is concerned, what matters is not the results, only the forecast, even though it is made just two weeks into the new year.
It's hard to take seriously a law that ordains such games - or the officials who play them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: GRAMM-RUDMAN-HOLLINGS ACT

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; DEFICIT REDUCTION ACT; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); VETO (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); SAVINGS & LOANS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); POSTAL SERVICE (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



528 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 2-5, 24
 
An explosion in a British barracks killed at least 10 people, wounded 22 others, and damaged dozens of homes in southeast England. The Irish Republican Army claimed responsibility. Page 1

 
A plan for nuclear arms inspections was agreed to in principle by Secretary of State James Baker and the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze, a Soviet spokesman said. The plan is expected to help the prospects for a strategic arms treaty. 1

 
Soviet citizens trying to immigrate to the U.S. are being victimized by an extortion racket involving Soviet police guards as they wait on long lines outside the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, American officials said. 3

 
Democracy's outlook in the world is very promising, agreed Vice President Quayle and other conservative politcal leaders who are meeting in Tokyo. But they disagreed on how to respond to some of the world's major political and economic shifts. 5 
 
 
News analysis: German unification is a scenario that West Germans find exciting and unsettling. While the prospect thrills many Germans, they are also aware of the suspicions and fears it raises among the country's European neighbors. 3

 
France's Michelin agreed to acquire the Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company in a deal that will create the world's largest tire producer. 31

 
A cease-fire plan for Lebanon, designed by the Arab League, was accepted by Gen. Michel Aoun, the military leader of the Lebanese Christians, setting the stage for discussions on national reconciliation. 1

 
Murders by Egyptian women of their husbands have provoked debate about the future direction of a country that now seems mired in a profound social malaise. 4

 
News analysis: J.P. Morgan's move to drastically increase its financial cushion against bad loans to third world countries raises new questions about how those countries will escape their economic problems. 1

 
Colombia's Justice Minister was asked to resign because she was ''dragging her feet'' on signing papers to extradite drug suspects for trial in the U.S., a presidential aide said. 24

 
Many Vietnamese who were living in Cambodia have returned to Vietnam, nervous about what will happen once Vietnamese soldiers end their withdrawal next week, officials said. 5

 
Prime Minister Bhutto of Pakistan and her ruling party are on the defensive after only 10 months in power. Her government is losing popularity because of unfulfilled election promises. 5

 
A hole has opened in the ozone layer above Antarctica, and scientists said it was growing at the same rate as one in 1987, which broke records and alarmed environmentalists. 2

 
Campeau's foes in Toronto gloat 31

 
NATIONAL 8, 24, 29-30
 
Charleston, S.C., was reeling from the devastation left by Hurricane Hugo. Bridges were twisted, buildings leveled and television towers toppled as the storm raced ashore, then swept northward through the Carolinas. 1

 
When Hugo struck the coast it was the 10th most intense hurricane ever to hit this country, and experts are unsure why it gained so much power so fast. 29

 
A day of slow agony after a day of fear 29

U.S. relief moves to begin in Caribbean 30

Many aid efforts for storm victims 30

 
The crack used by President Bush as a prop in his anti-drug speech was obtained in a ''sting'' by Federal agents, but the White House defended the purchase. 1

 
Senate talks on the anti-drug plan unexpectedly collapsed, with Republicans and Democrats only $150 million apart on how much money to add to the President's proposal. 24

 
Samuel Pierce will not allow television coverage of his scheduled appearance at a House panel next Tuesday. The former Housing Secretary invoked a rule barring broadcasting equipment from hearing rooms in certain circumstances. 8

 
Rockwell will give up management of the Government's Rocky Flats nuclear weapons plant, officials said. The company departs amid an F.B.I. investigation and possible criminal violations of anti-pollution laws. 8

 
Hundreds of children with AIDS are suffering or dying prematurely because they are unable to obtain AZT, a drug that could prolong and improve the quality of their lives, experts said. 8

 
Rights panel steps into hospital treatment of newborns 8

 
REGIONAL 25-28
 
Miscues by an inexperienced crew led to the aborted takeoff of a USAir jetliner that crashed into the East River at La Guardia Airport Wednesday night. 1

 
Pilots faced with a decision on whether to take off or abort the flight of a troubled jet must rely on instinct and experience, and also math. Such a decision can be particularly pressing at La Guardia Airport, which is nearly surrounded by water and housing. 26

 
Drug tests for pilots to be tightened 26

 
Twice as much money was raised by David Dinkins in the two weeks surrounding the Sept. 12 primaries as by his Republican-Liberal opponent, Rudolph Giuliani. 25

 
Unveiling campaign ads and winning support 27

 
President Bush endorsed the Republican candidate for governor of New Jersey, Representative Jim Courter. The President, on a visit to East Brunswick, said the race was a nationally significant referendum on Republican policies and values. 25

 
A plan to reshape the school system of New York City elicited praise and cautions about potential obstacles. The plan, which stresses school-based control, came from Joseph Fernandez, the incoming Chancellor. 25

 
Traffic is a pressing problem in Fairfield County, Conn., and employers are addressing the commuter travails of their employees with subsidy programs and other efforts. 25

 
Two managers of a billing company for 10 private hospitals in New York City pleaded guilty Thursday to falsifying documents used to qualify hundreds of patients for Medicaid, state officials said. 27

 
M.T.A. rejects sex-act curbs by Metro-North 27

Army doctor is cleared of sex-abuse charges 27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ML (PAR) (55%); MIH (LSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (55%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); ENGLAND (92%); LEBANON (92%); VIET NAM (90%); FRANCE (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); ANTARCTICA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); JAPAN (77%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (65%); 

COMPANY: CIE GENERALE DES ETABLISSEMENTS MICHELIN (55%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (53%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (53%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (84%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (84%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MURDER (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXTRADITION (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (72%); TIRES (71%); TIRE MFG (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (61%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); EXTORTION (55%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: BENAZIR BHUTTO (50%); 



529 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Bogota Justice Chief Was Ousted By President Barco, Aide Reports

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Colombia's Justice Minister was asked to resign because she was ''dragging her feet'' on signing papers to extradite drug suspects for trial in the United States, a presidential aide said today.
The minister, Monica de Greiff, who resignation was reported on Thursday, ''didn't show the resolve required,'' said the aide, who spoke on the condition that he would not be identified. ''Her main concern was her family's safety, not her own.''
President Virgilio Barco Vargas had no public comment on the move. Caracol radio reported tonight that he named Communications Minister Carlos Lemos Simmonds as Acting Justice Minister. 
 
New Blow to Drug War
Mr. Lemos was Acting Justice Minister in August and early September while Mrs. de Greiff was in the United States seeking help for the Colombian Government's drug war, and it was during this period that Colombia extradited the only suspected trafficker to be sent to the United States in the last two and a half years.
As President Barco prepares for a trip to New York and Washington next week, the replacement of Mrs. de Greiff, who was internationally known, comes as another blow to his faltering war on the drug traffickers, which he declared a month ago after the assassination of his party's leading presidential candidate.
On the political front, initial bipartisan support for the anti-cartel fight has recently unraveled. This week, Mr. Barco started drawing fire from the opposition Social Conservative party, which accuses the governing Liberal Party of failing to consult it on the anti-drug fight.
On the military front, 10 days of terrorist bombings have caused millions of dollars of damage and have left this capital's population of six million skittish. At the same time, army and police raids on cocaine refining laboratories and the confiscation of airplanes appear to have sharply cut Colombia's cocaine exports to the United States.
 
Dollar Rates Going Up
In Peru and Bolivia, the world's largest growers of coca leaf, the raw material for cocaine, black market rates for the United States dollar have jumped in recent weeks. Since the crackdown on cocaine trafficking started in Colombia on August 19, Peru's currency, the inti, has lost 60 percent of its black market value.
''I think a lot of the labs here have been dismantled,'' an American official said today. ''If they can keep the pressure up for a few more months we may see Peru and Bolivia emerging as cocaine producers.''
Mrs. de Greiff, a 32-year-old lawyer, was the eighth person to serve as Colombia's Justice Minister in three years. All her recent predecessors received death threats from Colombia's cocaine traffickers. In 1984, Justice Minister Rodrigo Lara Bonilla was murdered in the streets of Bogota. In 1987, a former Justice Minister was wounded in Hungary, where he had been sent as Ambassador. Planning Trip to U.S. At a news conference today, Mrs. de Greiff seemed relieved to have been removed from the post after only two months of service.
''I'm going to the States,'' she said with a smile. ''I'm going to be with my family. I have been working here alone. My husband and my child are in the United States. This is a very difficult post. There have been very many threats here.''
She said that out of ''concern for my safety,'' President Barco asked her on Wednesday if she would like to serve as Ambassador to Portugal. She said she refused the offer.
''I understand that he wanted me to leave,'' she said, referring to the President. ''I have no regrets.''
Mrs. de Greiff said she plans to spend two weeks in the United States and then will return to Colombia.
At the news conference she was not asked to respond to the charge of delaying action on extradition requests, and after the appearance she could not be contacted.
 
'She Was Very Brave'
An American Embassy official who has met several times with Mrs. de Greiff declined today to speculate on the circumstances of her resignation.
''She was very brave,'' he said. ''I was struck by her courage, given that it was an incredibly dangerous time.''
Today, Army General Eduardo Niebles announced that four more men have been arrested this week for the murder of the presidential candidate, Senator Luis Carlos Galan.
''They need some results to keep the spirit going,'' the American official said of Colombia's war on the drug barons. ''We have had results against the ranches, farms and laboratories. Now, they need some results against the kingpins.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Monica de Greiff (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); PERU (93%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (94%); 

COMPANY: BELGIAN AMERICAN RADIO CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; EXTRADITION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS EXTRADITION (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ASSASSINATION (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); COCAINE (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ARMIES (76%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); BOMBINGS (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); US DOLLAR (68%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); CARTELS (64%); TERRORISM (63%); MURDER (58%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; BARCO VARGAS, VIRGILIO (PRES); DE GREIFF, MONICA (MIN) VIRGILIO BARCO VARGAS (71%); 



530 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 5, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Conservative Figures See 'Bright' Future

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 22

 BODY:
There was more than a trace of self-congratulation in the air today as Vice President Dan Quayle, Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and other like-minded political leaders assured each other that Communism and socialism were on the defensive everywhere.
The prospects for ''the heritage and hope of democracy and freedom'' are ''brighter than ever in many parts of the world,'' Mr. Quayle said, referring to changes under way in the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Asia and some parts of Latin America.
But at an unusual three-day meeting of conservative political leaders from 27 countries, there were also signs of disagreement and uncertainty over how to respond to new challenges and possible new threats to the international trading system posed by the economic success of Japan.
For instance, despite speech after speech praising pro-democratic changes under way in Poland, Hungary and the Soviet Union, the conservative leaders resisted endorsement of any sweeping aid packages for the Communist bloc. 
 
Thatcher Warnings on Japan
Mr. Quayle said that President Bush's limited package of aid to Poland was ''a very good proposal'' in spite of Congressional criticism that it falls short. Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu said Tokyo would not provide more aid or investment to the Soviet Union until Moscow returns four disputed islands to Japan.
The conference, which is to end on Saturday, was called by the International Democrat Union, established in 1983 as an international forum for right-of-center political leaders and parties to support their common ideology in each other's countries. It was the group's fourth international session and its first in Asia.
The sharpest warnings on Japan this week were from Mrs. Thatcher, who said the world economy was endangered by protectionist tendencies in the United States, Japan and the European Community. ''We are all offenders in this area,'' the British Prime Minister said.
But Mrs. Thatcher's comments came at the end of a four-day visit to Japan in which she singled out Japan in terms that were more blunt than those used by almost every other Western leader on an increasingly contentious issue.
 
Protectionist 'Tit for Tat'
''Japan's economic miracle was made possible because the rest of us were ready to keep our markets open to you,'' Mrs. Thatcher told businessmen on Thursday. At present, she said, ''it sometimes seems to the rest of us that the benefits of the open trading system have been too much one way.''
Mrs. Thatcher warned that Japanese practices were stirring ''resentment'' that could bring ''an explosion of tit-for-tat bilateral deals'' that might wreck the global economy.
Prime Minister Kaifu, the host of the conference in Japan, reportedly failed to make any major concessions to Mrs. Thatcher on trade matters but he assured the conference of conservatives that Japan understood ''the importance of strengthening the world's free-trade system.''
The Japanese Prime Minister also used the occasion to endorse the conference's several denunciations of socialism as a failed system. But he did not point out that the Japan Socialist Party won the elections to the upper house of Parliament in July.
 
Quayle Adheres to Party Line
For the most part, Mr. Quayle resisted discussion of trade or economic issues. He is to hold substantive talks with Japan's leaders on such topics on Monday as part of his 12-day visit to Asia.
Mr. Quayle arrived in Japan on Thursday after a stop in South Korea, where he reiterated the Bush Administration's opposition to withdrawal of 43,000 American troops stationed there. From here, he is to travel to the Philippines and Malaysia.
At the conservative conference today, the Vice President gave two short speeches and took part in a joint news conference with Mr. Kaifu, Mrs. Thatcher and a dozen other conservative party leaders from Austria, Finland, Australia, Jamaica, Canada and other countries.
Only a handful of questions were asked of Mr. Quayle, who gave short answers reiterating the Bush Administration's position on subjects like Cambodia, China and Poland.
Asked when the United States might resume aid and close ties to China, for example, Mr. Quayle said that ''the ball is clearly in China's court'' and that Washington was waiting for China to ''move once again toward the reforms that they had been heading for for a number of years.''
In a speech, Mr. Quayle called on colleagues to support the opposition parties against the Sandinista Government in the elections in Nicaragua scheduled for February, but few others referred to any problems in Latin America. Asked about that, an American official said the group was very ''European oriented'' now and distracted by the problems of Eastern Europe.

GRAPHIC: Vice President Dan Quayle and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in Tokyo yesterday before a meeting of conservative political leaders from 27 countries. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); POLAND (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TOKYO (JAPAN)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES PRIME MINISTERS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); THATCHER, MARGARET H (PRIME MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



531 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Outside U.S. Embassy, Soviet Extortion

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 22

 BODY:
American officials trying to cope with increasing crowds of Soviet applicants for immigration say the people in long lines outside the United States Embassy are being victimized by an extortion racket involving Soviet police guards assigned to keep order.
''I've been first in line three days in a row, and each day other people were led through by the police,'' said Semyon M. Belostotsky. He said that with American immigration visa standards about to be tightened, the asking price for a bribe to be led to the front of the line was rising to more than 500 rubles.
This is $800 at the official exchange rate, or about two months' salary for an average Soviet worker. Applicants, some of whom report demands for their cars as bribes to buck the line, are enraged at this extra demand for graft as they wait for months in the very shadow of what they view as a symbol of justice and economic opportunity. 
The Soviet police declined to comment on the charges.
American officials said privately that they were aware of the corruption and greatly disturbed about it, but added that they were powerless to police the sidewalks outside the embassy, on the city's main downtown ring road.
 
'We Have No Jurisdiction'
''We know about this,'' an embassy official said. ''It's terrible. Our people get angry and go out and complain to the militia guards, but they tell us to get back inside, we have no jurisdiction.'' The Soviet citizens are in line for the mere chance to submit their application forms and documents to the embassy and obtain a date for an interview on eligibility - another waiting list that extends well into next summer.
Those who clear that hurdle face still one more: the typically cacophonous, chaotic wait to buy an Aeroflot ticket, where some veterans say even bribes fail to guarantee attention.
''All my life I have waited in line, but this is the most valuable line I have ever been in,'' said Mr. Belostotsky, an artist who arrives at 4 A.M. to resume his place in one of two lines outside the embassy. That line is organized by the people themselves under control of the militia in hopes they can finally get on each day's ''real'' line, the one leading to the embassy door.
The number of Soviet citizens admitted to immigrate to the United States has increased fivefold in two years, running close to 50,000 this year because Moscow has greatly relaxed travel restrictions. Of late, embassy personnel have faced perhaps 20,000 applicants a month. The Bush Administration has decided the United States cannot accommodate all of this growing tide, and so has said it will institute new restrictions beginning Oct. 1.
 
End of Long Lines Planned
The embassy has not yet announced precise procedures. But officials say applicants will no longer wait in lines for months at a time, but simply be given a form to fill in and put in a box outside the embassy, theoretically with no interference from militia guards. The form will tell the applicants that notification may eventually be sent to their homes for a time for an interview - ''if ever,'' according to one official. He said the new system will extend less false hope than the present one.
One Soviet citizen involved in seeking a visa, a man long inured to the need to bribe Moscow bureaucrats, obtained an embassy interview date and then routinely asked a friend which American should be bribed next. The man seemed incredulous when told that American Foreign Service personnel have a reputation for integrity.
''There is no Soviet citizen who has not had to pay a bribe in his life,'' Mr. Belostotsky said, noting that the outrageous embassy bribes are fed by panic that the United States is finding it necessary to limit its intake. To pass the time and keep calm, he has been reading ''The Gulag Archipelago,'' Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's epic account of the Stalin regime's imprisonment of throngs of innocent citizens.
Today, his three days as No. 1 in the line ended after a television news crew unexpectedly arrived outside the embassy. Soon the militia let 50 from the line pass to the door of the embassy. Mr. Belostotsky led the way on to the next waiting list.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AFLT (RTS) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EXTORTION; BRIBERY; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS EXTORTION (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); BRIBERY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REFUGEES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EXCHANGE RATES (55%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X



532 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Bush Calls Courter's Race a Poll on G.O.P.

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

DATELINE: EAST BRUNSWICK, N.J., Sept. 22

 BODY:
President Bush came to New Jersey today to endorse the Republican candidate for governor, Representative Jim Courter, and paint a picture of the race as a nationally significant referendum on Republican policies and values.
Striking some of the themes that have brought victory to Republicans in the state in the last three Presidential campaigns and last two campaigns for governor, Mr. Bush linked Mr. Courter's candidacy with the growth and prosperity experienced here under President Ronald Reagan and Gov. Thomas H. Kean. ''New Jersey's elections are among the most crucial in America,'' Mr. Bush said. ''This election will decide whether New Jersey builds on what you began eight years ago, or whether it risks everything by returning to the past.'' 
Standing between Mr. Courter and Mr. Kean at a fund-raising luncheon at the Ramada Renaissance Hotel, Mr. Bush struck on some themes that Mr. Courter has tried to make the centerpiece of his campaign in recent days, the environment, economic growth, taxes, crime and drugs.
 
Tying Prestige to Candidate
''This election will decide whether New Jersey continues to have the kind of leadership which balances a sound economy and sound ecology, and whether its leadership says no to higher taxes and yes to extending the prosperity of the last eight years,'' Mr. Bush said.
The appearance was seen as a much-needed boost to the campaign of Mr. Courter, who has stumbled badly over the last three months. But the visit also raised the stakes for the national Republican Party, by tying its prestige to a candidate who takes a far more conservative view on abortion than most voters in the state and is widely agreed to be trailing his Democratic opponent, Representative James J. Florio.
In the governor's race, voters are being offered a sharp contrast in the philosophies of the two major candidates. Mr. Florio, generally regarded as a moderate Democrat over the years, says government should take a more active role in solving problems of the environment, overdevelopment and an automobile-insurance system that has left drivers here with the highest premiums in the nation.
Mr. Courter, an advocate of small government and conservative social views, sees as one of his great strengths in the race the popularity of the Reagan and Kean Administrations in the 80's, when the state experienced an economic boom.
Strategists for Mr. Courter say they hope to align their candidate in voters' minds with Mr. Kean, Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush, and to play down his previous positions on abortion and banning homosexuals from jobs dealing with children, positions less in accord with moderate Republicans in the state. ''Just the picture of them together, Courter, Tom Kean and the President will remind the voters of what we want to say,'' a strategist, Robert Franks, said.
Mr. Bush described Mr. Courter as a longtime friend, a moral man and a family man, resonating with another theme of Mr. Courter's campaign, which has tried to portray Mr. Florio as tainted by the unsavory political practices of associates in Camden County.
''This November, New Jersey will make the right decision,'' Mr. Bush said. ''A vote, in short, for the new New Jersey.''
The appearance is expected to raise $700,000 for the state party, which charged the several hundred people who attended $500 a plate, or $5,000 for an opportunity to have their picture taken with the President. The money is expected to be used in large part to buy television advertising that will urge voters to vote Republican without mentioning candidates' names.
Mr. Courter's campaign is lagging behind Mr. Florio's in fund raising and is several hundred thousand dollars short of the contributions necessary to receive full public financing under the campaign-financing law. The law allows each campaign to spend no more than $5 million. There is no limit on generic commercials paid for by state parties.
In receiving the President's endorsement, Mr. Courter portrayed himself as a representative of mainstream Republican thinking, and he described Mr. Florio as a liberal in ''left field.'' Mr. Courter also repeated the first words he had uttered, standing next to Mr. Kean, the day after winning the nomination in June, ''If you liked Michael Dukakis, you'll love Jim Florio.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of President Bush who endorsed Jim Courter for governor of New Jersey at a Republican fund-raising luncheon in East Brunswick, saying that the race was nationally significant. With them is Gov. Thomas H. Kean (pg. 1); supporters of Mr. Courter applauding President Bush (pg. 27) (NYT/Keith Meyers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: RAMADA RENAISSANCE HOTEL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ENDORSEMENTS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES GOVERNORS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (77%); REFERENDUMS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ABORTION (63%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); COURTER, JIM (REPR); KERR, PETER JAMES A COURTER (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (94%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); 



533 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 23, 1989

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
 J. P. Morgan & Company's unexpected increase in its loan-loss reserve for third world debt raises new questions about how those countries will escape their severe economic problems. Morgan's move makes it unlikely the bank will participate in any new lending, and poses a challenge to the policies of Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, who called in March for a combination of debt relief and new loans to deal with the debt crisis. News Analysis. [Page 1.] Crude oil prices may fluctuate as much as a dollar a barrel in the months ahead, but abrupt changes are unlikely, many analysts say. Hurricane Hugo damaged four Caribbean refineries, and that could temporarily push up gasoline prices. [31.] Consumer spending increased by nine-tenths of 1 percent in August, in another sign of continued economic expansion, even though incomes rose just four-tenths of 1 percent, the Commerce Department reported. Analysts cited bargain hunting. [32.] The Bush Administration is limiting the protection it is willing to give to buyers of insolvent savings institutions, a marked shift from Government policy in the 1988 savings and loan bailouts. [33.] 
 
 
 
Companies
 Procter & Gamble agreed to buy the Noxell Corporation, the maker of Cover Girl cosmetics and Noxzema skin cream, for securities worth $1.3 billion. The move will broaden its holdings in the health and beauty care field and give Noxell the marketing strength it needs in a sluggish but competitive cosmetics market. [31.] The Michelin Group of France agreed to acquire the Uniroyal Goodrich Tire Company, the second-largest producer in the United States, in a transaction valued at $1.5 billion. The deal will create the world's largest tire company, surpassing Goodyear. [31.] UAL's chairman, Stephen M. Wolf, stands to gain $76.7 million for his stake in the parent of United Airlines if a proposed pilot-management buyout is completed, but he plans to work without pay for a year after employees take control, a company official said. [31.] Chrysler reduced its stake in Mitsubishi Motors to 12.1 percent from 21.8 percent, taking a $310 million profit. Lee A. Iacocca, Chrysler's chairman, cited Tokyo market conditions and said ties with Mitsubishi remained ''as strong as ever.'' [31.] The new committee charged with rebuilding Campeau's American retailing arm is expected to give high priority to arranging new mortgages for many of the 125 retail buildings that the company owns outright. [33.] Advertisers backed away from a television program about threats to timberlands in the Pacific Northwest after pressure was put on the companies by a group representing the logging industry, the show's co-producer and Turner Broadcasting said. [32.] Wang Laboratories said it would borrow up to $175 million from a unit of Manufacturers Hanover. The struggling minicomputer maker needs the money to revamp its operations. [33.]
 
 
 
Markets
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 1.33 points at 2,681.61, finishing a lackluster week with an uninspiring gain of 7.03 points. Traders cited a lack of institutional interest, a weak bond market and uncertainty about the course of the dollar as the Group of Seven industrialized nations meet this weekend in Washington. [34.] Treasury note and bond prices were essentially unchanged, while bill rates posted moderate gains. [34.] The dollar rose yesterday in thin, erratic trading to 146.05 yen from 145.65 on Thursday. Gold also rose. [40.] Prices of silver futures rose sharply, while coffee, energy, soybean and grain futures fell. [40.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 Investors in ''junk bond'' mutual funds have large paper losses, and their funds' net asset values are down sharply this year, despite the fat monthly income checks. Your Money. [32.]
 The Patent and Trademark Office has given two companies, Genetics Institute Inc. of Cambridge, Mass., and the Cetus Corporation, strong patent protection for the same drug. Patents. [32.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); ML (PAR) (82%); 7211 (TSE) (64%); PGP (PAR) (55%); PG (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (82%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (64%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (55%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); FRANCE (58%); 

STATE: NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); CIE GENERALE DES ETABLISSEMENTS MICHELIN (82%); NOXELL CORP (68%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (64%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (55%); COVER GIRL COSMETICS (55%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); TIRES (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COSMETICS (75%); FORESTRY & LOGGING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (75%); STOCK INDEXES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); AIRLINES (67%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 



534 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 682 words

HEADLINE: Abrupt Oil-Price Shifts Seen As Unlikely Despite Swings

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Prices of crude oil, which have edged higher in recent weeks after being remarkably stable through much of the year, may fluctuate as much as a dollar a barrel in the months ahead, but abrupt changes are not likely, many analysts believe.
The ravages of Hurricane Hugo, which severely damaged four refineries in the Caribbean this week, could push gasoline prices 5 cents a gallon higher within weeks, but that increase would be temporary, the analysts said. The lost refining capacity is expected to be repaired before the Thanksgiving holiday.
The analysts believe that oil ministers of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will raise its production ceiling to as much as 21 million barrels a day at their meeting in Geneva, which begins on Saturday. 
OPEC's output was set at 19.5 million barrels last June, but experts said the group was currently producing close to 22 million barrels a day. In past years, that output would have produced a worldwide surplus of crude oil and depressed prices.
That did not happen this year. Temporary production problems in the North Sea, Alaska, Colombia and the Soviet Union cut global supplies during the summer, and demand rose beyond projections, said Lawrence Goldstein, executive vice president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation.
The Soviet Union's crude oil exports are expected to remain depressed because of production troubles, but supplies are increasing in the other regions, he said. ''On balance, I'm not looking for a substantial price erosion,'' he added. ''We think there will be some gentle tugging down on prices during the remainder of the year.''
Antonio M. Szabo, a vice president at Bonner & Moore Associates, a consulting firm in Houston, projected that the OPEC members would produce close to 22 million barrels a day in the fourth quarter. Still, he said, prices should fluctuate only modestly.
West Texas Intermediate crude could exceed $20 a barrel if weather patterns in the United States are normal this autumn, and possibly $21 a barrel if temperatures are abnormally cold, Mr. Szabo said. The price of the West Texas grade has risen gradually since the first week of August, when it was traded at $17.90 a barrel. The November futures contract fell to $19.28 a barrel today.
 
Buoyancy Called Aberration
Analysts said the recent buoyancy in the price of the American benchmark crude oil was an aberration from trends in the global market. Kevin J. Lindemer of Cambridge Energy Research Associates said the premium on West Texas Intermediate will ease back into a more typical range by the end of the year as gasoline supplies in the Midwest and Plains States become more plentiful.
Philip K. Verleger Jr., an oil analyst at the Institute for International Economics in Washington, forecast a price of $18.50 late in the year.
American refiners have bid prices for West Texas Intermediate higher partly because crowded pipelines were unable to ship more imports from Gulf Coast storage tanks and tankers. The West Texas Intermediate crude is sought because it produces more gasoline from a barrel than other crude blends.
 
Less Being Produced
Another reason for the rise in West Texas Intermediate is that less of it is being produced from Southwestern oilfields. Over all, crude oil production in Texas, which includes several other crude oil blends, fell to 1.8 million barrels a day in June, compared with 2.3 million in early 1986.
Oil companies have sharply curtailed spending on domestic exploration since oil prices collapsed from $28 a barrel in early 1986. This year, the nation's drilling activity will be the slowest since 1942, and the average number of active drilling rigs in the United States through last Tuesday was 812, according to Baker Hughes Inc., a Houston oilfield service company, down 13.8 percent in one year.
Moreover, more of the rigs in service are searching for natural gas instead of for oil, said Ike Kerridge, a Baker Hughes economist. This is a reversal of oil's longtime dominance over natural gas as the more desired fuel, he added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (62%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); SWITZERLAND (77%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IHS INC (62%); BONNER & MOORE ASSOCIATES INC (53%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FORECASTS; PRODUCTION; PRICES OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GASOLINE (79%); GASOLINE PRICES (79%); TRENDS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); WEATHER (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); ENERGY RESEARCH (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); THANKSGIVING (55%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C



535 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Campeau's Foes in Toronto Gloat

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TORONTO, Sept. 22

 BODY:
There has been little sympathy for Robert Campeau this week on Bay Street, Toronto's clubby financial district.
When Mr. Campeau completed his $6.6 billion takeover of Federated Department Stores 19 months ago, many of Canada's top business executives held their applause. Now that debt problems arising from the Federated deal have forced the 65-year-old entrepreneur to surrender personal control of his Campeau Corporation, some Canadian executives have been saying, in effect, ''I told you so.''
''The reaction on Bay Street? In a word, glee,'' said one executive who was instrumental in gathering the group of English Canadian investors, known at the time as ''the friends,'' who blocked Mr. Campeau's hostile takeover bid for the Royal Trust Company in 1980. Like others reached who said they did not want to appear to be gloating over Mr. Campeau's misfortunes, the executive asked that his name not be used. 
 
Regarded as an Upstart
Mr. Campeau made many enemies on Bay Street with his abortive bid in 1980 for Royal Trust, one of Canada's most powerful financial companies. It was his first major venture outside the Ottawa and Toronto real estate deals that made his fortune.
Indeed, in the genteel world of Bay Street's major brokerages and banks, Mr. Campeau, a high school dropout who worked as a garage mechanic and a millwright before starting a house-building company, has long been regarded as a brash upstart. So it galled many here when his buyout of Allied Stores in 1986 and the Federated takeover last year gave him a magazine-cover renown in the United States that has rarely been accorded to Canadian entrepreneurs outside their own country.
Mr. Campeau has long contended that it was his humble origins, and French Canadian birth, that caused Bay Street to snub him. But in the wake of the turmoil at the Campeau Corporation, some Canadian executives said they felt that Bay Street's wariness toward Mr. Campeau had been vindicated.
A common verdict among Canadians familiar with Mr. Campeau's business dealings was that a combination of two distinctive traits contributed to his undoing: his taste for challenges that would deter more cautious men and a liking for running his company virtually single-handed. Since the Federated takeover, half a dozen senior executives of Campeau and its department store divisions have quit in disputes with Mr. Campeau, taking with them much of the company's expertise in retailing and debt financing.
 
'Broke All the Rules'
''He's always been a man who broke all the rules, and celebrated doing so,'' said one high-ranking executive. ''Now, he's learning the hard way that there were reasons for those rules.''
Catherine Mulroney, co-author of a new book, ''Campeau, the Building of an Empire,'' to be published next month by Doubleday Canada Ltd., offered a more sympathetic view. ''Campeau's always been a man who's thrived on proving the naysayers wrong,'' Ms. Mulroney said. ''To have the whole business community saying 'I told you so' must really hurt.''
Although he has homes in Manhattan and in Palm Beach, Fla., Mr. Campeau spent much of the last two weeks in Toronto. Reporters outside his chateau-style mansion in Toronto's Bridle Path district saw him leave early and arrive home close to midnight in his chauffeur-driven Mercedes-Benz, usually engrossed in conversation on his car phone.
 
Family Problems
As though he needed more trouble, the Canadian entrepreneur had to face again last week the family squabbles that have dogged him. His son Jacques, 36 years old, made a fresh attempt to break free from court-imposed restraints on his right to sell a block of nearly two million Campeau shares, valued at $35 million.
The younger Campeau argued that the freeze would cause him ''great hardship.'' But the court rejected his plea pending trial of a suit brought by Robert Campeau, who contends that the trust guaranteed him first refusal on the shares and control of their voting rights.
Canadian attitudes toward Mr. Campeau have not been helped by his announced preference for doing business in the United States. After completing the Federated deal last year, he said at a New York news conference that he liked the United States' ''wide-open private enterprise system'' better than the more regulated business milieu in Canada.
 
Felt Poorly Treated
He has also told reporters that he wished he had turned his business energies toward the United States years before he did. And he has said that as a French Canadian, he felt ill treated by Canada's English-speaking business leaders.
Canadians have traditionally been cool toward fellow Canadians who move to bigger opportunities in the United States. The chill has been compounded in Mr. Campeau's case by a perception that although he has criticized the close ties between government and business in Canada, that very closeness was the key to his success as a builder in Ottawa, where he created the fortune that staked his ventures in the United States.
''Bob Campeau's career here had nothing to do with risk,'' said one Bay Street financier who dueled with him at the time of the Royal Trust battle. ''When he says he wished he'd got to the United States sooner, the fact is that without the Government of Canada, he'd never have got there at all.''
Others noted that Mr. Campeau had attributed his troubles to the high interest-paying ''junk bonds'' that financed his Allied and Federated takeovers. In that light, some suggest dryly, Mr. Campeau might well review his attitude toward Canada's caution in financial matters. John Crispo, a professor at the University of Toronto's Faculty of Management, said the lesson of the Campeau Corporation was that junk bonds and kindred investment practices were ''what's killing North American capitalism.''
''Campeau's no better or worse than dozens of others who've been doing the same thing,'' Mr. Crispo said.
Despite his difficulties, some Canadians still admire Mr. Campeau, one of 14 children of a blacksmith. Thomas D'Aquino, president of the National Council on Business Issues, an Ottawa-based lobbying group whose members include many of the country's most powerful companies, said Mr. Campeau had shown a courage that Canada needed as its economy becomes more integrated with that of the United States.
''He's an entrepreneur,'' Mr. D'Aquino said. ''He was prepared to take a run at it. If he had done well, everybody would be applauding.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Robert Campeau, who made some enemies in the financial district of Toronto in 1980 and is receiving little sympathy there now (NYT/Mark Lyons)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (73%); MACY'S INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMPEAU CORP; FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; TORONTO (ONTARIO)

SUBJECT: FINANCES BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); RETAILERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (73%); DEBT FINANCING (72%); WRITERS (63%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: CAMPEAU, ROBERT; BURNS, JOHN F ROBERT JOSEPH CAMPEAU (94%); ROBERT H BURNS (59%); 



536 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Spending Is Up 0.9% as Incomes Rise 0.4%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
In another sign of continued economic expansion, consumer spending increased by nine-tenths of 1 percent in August even though incomes rose just four-tenths of 1 percent.
The Commerce Department said today that the jump in consumer spending, which followed a gain of six-tenths of 1 percent in July, was the largest since a 1.1 percent advance in April. A number of analysts attributed the increased spending to bargain hunting by consumers. 
Income growth, meanwhile, slowed from a gain of seven-tenths of 1 percent in July, largely because of strikes against several large telephone companies. Still, personal incomes have increased for nine consecutive months.
''Consumers are still basically positive in their attitudes, largely based on a favorable job outlook,'' said David Jones, an economist with Aubrey Lanston & Company, a government securities dealer based in New York. ''As long as the job sector holds up, and it certainly seems likely to do so, I think consumers will continue to spend, at least when they're given a bargain.''
 
Bargains in Autos
Mr. Jones said that strong rebate-induced sales of automobiles in August were a major element of the advance in consumer spending.
''In a sense, that's good,'' he said. ''As long as consumers buy only when given a bargain, that will limit the potential for inflation.''
Consumer spending is watched closely as a barometer of economic health because it accounts for about two-thirds of the nation's economic activity. Other recent reports show the economy continuing to grow, although at a slower pace as the Federal Reserve keeps short-term interest rates high to contain inflation.
Personal consumption spending, which includes everything except interest payments on debt, rose $31.8 billion in August, compared with an increase of $21.1 billion in July.
Purchases of durable goods, like cars and other expensive items expected to last more than three years, rose $22.9 billion after gaining $3.4 billion in July.
Nondurable goods purchases fell $3.6 billion after increasing $4.8 billion in the previous month.
Purchases of services, which includes housing costs, rose $12.5 billion, compared with a $13 billion increase in July.
Disposable, or after-tax, income rose four-tenths of 1 percent in August, down slightly from seven-tenths of 1 percent in July. But the savings rate, savings as a percent of disposable income, fell 6.7 percent after gaining 1.7 percent in the previous month.
Based on a three-month moving average, the savings rate fell to 5.4 percent in August from 5.8 percent in July.
The key component of the income category, wages and salaries, decreased $9.2 billion in August, compared with a $23.5 billion increase in July. Payrolls at manufacturing companies rose by $3.2 billion, up from a July increase of $2.1 billion.
Over all, personal consumption spending came in at an annual rate of $3.51 trillion in August, after reaching $3.48 trillion in July.
Personal incomes totaled $4.47 trillion at an annual rate in August, up from a revised $4.45 trillion in July.

GRAPHIC: Graph of total personal income, March 1988-Aug. 1989 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INCOME ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); 



537 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Campeau May Seek New Mortgages

BYLINE: By ISADORE BARMASH

 BODY:
The new committee charged with rebuilding the American retailing arm of the Campeau Corporation is expected to give high priority to arranging new mortgages for many of the 125 retail buildings that the company owns outright.
The mortgage debt would help pay the mounting debts from bonds and other loans of the parent company. Earlier this week, after weeklong negotiations, Campeau, the Canadian developer that owns nine American department store chains, including Bloomingdale's and Abraham & Straus in New York and Burdine's in Miami, received a $250 million loan from Olympia & York Developments. Olympia & York is another large Canadian developer. 
Campeau, which amassed its retailing empire by borrowing heavily to purchase the Allied Stores Corporation in 1986 and Federated Department Stores early last year, has already put Bloomingdale's 17 stores up for sale to help with its cash needs.
 
New Bridge Loan Sought
Any new cash, including that from mortgage debt, would also help pay down an $800 million bridge loan from Citibank and other banks that helped the company buy Federated Department Stores early last year. Olympia & York is trying to arrange a new bridge loan to help replace the old one, which is due soon.
Executives close to Campeau said yesterday that they expected the four-man restructuring committee, set up under the terms of the $250 million loan, to seek mortgage financing for most of the Federated and Allied stores situated on property owned by Campeau. About half of the 250 stores are on such property.
Carole Sanger, spokeswoman for Campeau in the United States, said in Cincinnati that a mortgage financing program ''has been the plan all along'' to help repay the company's other debts, ''but the restructuring committee will have to determine what it wants to do with it.''
 
Will Report to New Board
But financial sources said the mortgage financing and the already announced plan to sell the Bloomingdale's stores would be high-priority recommendations of the committee. The group, headed by Lionel G. Dodd, chief operating officer for Olympia & York Enterprises, will report to the new Campeau board, also set up as part of the loan agreement. That board consists of three representatives from Campeau, three from Olympia & York and four from minority shareholders.
Shortly after Robert Campeau, chairman of the Campeau Corporation, acquired Allied in December 1986, he obtained new mortgages for a large number of the Allied stores. This helped him to keep Allied's debts in line until his May 1988 takeover of Federated Department Stores. But the resulting high interest rates for ''junk bonds'' and other capital needs created a credit squeeze last week that ended only with the $250 million loan.
Any sale of other Federated or Allied store divisions, expected by analysts and other retailers, is now said by several financial sources to be of lesser priority than the mortgage financing plan and the sale of Bloomingdale's.
The restructuring committee, meanwhile, is said to have started the process of selecting a new chief executive and a new chief financial officer for Campeau U.S., the company's American arm. The loan agreement called for the appointment of a new top team.
A clearer picture has begun to emerge on what happened earlier this week when Mr. Campeau vacated his post as chairman of the American subsidiary, also part of the loan deal, and said he would concentrate on real estate, not on retailing. A source close to the Campeau negotiations said: ''The stores were doing better than anyone said, but the Campeau Corporation was placed in a seeming position of tighter liquidity than it had been because Citibank, Sumitomo and the others in the bank group didn't want to fund the company anymore if Bob Campeau still ran it. They were fed up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); OHIO, USA (54%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (93%); MACY'S INC (92%); ALLIED STORES CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMPEAU CORP

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES; CREDIT; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); 

PERSON: BARMASH, ISADORE ROBERT JOSEPH CAMPEAU (63%); 



538 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Issues Are Little Changed

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Treasury note and bond prices were essentially unchanged yesterday, while bill rates posted moderate gains. Dealers described trading as light and featureless in the absence of any significant news. The fixed-income market largely ignored Government reports of rises of four-tenths of 1 percent in personal income and nine-tenths of 1 percent in spending in August, which were in line with expectations. 
Some analysts said the meeting of the Group of Seven industrialized nations in Washington this weekend might also have inhibited some investors from taking market positions. Credit market analysts expect participants to discuss plans either to cap or reduce the value of the dollar, which registered modest gains yesterday but was down slightly for the week.
''There was a brief flurry of selling early in the session when one or two large West Coast savings and loan institutions reportedly asked for bids on $1.2 billion of mortgage-backed securities,'' said Mark A. McCluskey, chief money market trader at Bank Julius Baer of Zurich. ''But when the amount was subsequently reported as $700 million, the market snapped back and the rest of session was extremely quiet.''
 
Bellwether U.S. Bond at 8.19%
Late in the session, the Treasury's bellwether long-term bond, the 8 1/8 percent issue maturing in 2019, was offered at 99 9/32, off 2/32, as the yield rose to 8.19 percent, from 8.18 percent Thursday and 8.07 percent a week ago.
In Chicago, the spot December Treasury bond futures closed unchanged at 96 7/32.
As for next week's scheduled auctions of two- and four-year Treasury notes, Mr. McCluskey said that ''outstanding twos and fours are presently well priced to move and make way for the new paper.''
The outstanding two-year notes, the 8 1/4's of 1991, closed unchanged at 99 29/32, for a yield of 8.29 percent, while the 8 1/8's of 1993 slipped 1/32, at 99 18/32, and a yield of 8.25 percent.
The $9.75 billion of new Treasury two-year notes set for sale on Tuesday traded on a when-issued basis to yield 8.27 percent. The $7.75 billion of new four-year notes to be auctioned Wednesday traded to yield 8.23 percent.
 
Group of 7 Meeting Awaited
Norman E. Mains, senior vice president and chief economist at Bateman Eichler, Hill Richards Inc. in Los Angeles, said: ''The fixed-income market has been marking time as it waits for the Federal Reserve to provide some clues to the direction of interest rates. But the Fed seems to be more preoccupied with the strength of the dollar than it is with interest rates. This is why many market participants will be closely monitoring the Group of Seven meeting in Washington this weekend.''
The Fed did not intervene in the money market and the key Federal funds rate held steady at 8 15/16 percent, which is where many credit market analysts think the central bank now wants it to be.
Meanwhile, the good reception accorded Thursday's auction of one-year Treasury bills improved the tone of the short-term market. The discount rate on the 90-day Treasury bills fell six basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 7.77 percent, while the six-month bills were unchanged a 7.65 percent. The new one-year bills were auctioned at an average discount rate of 7.61 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: RICHARD'S INC (61%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); US DOLLAR (78%); FUTURES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (73%); SPOT MARKET (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J



539 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 40, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up in Thin Trading Before Group of 7 Meeting

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar rose yesterday in thin, erratic trading in advance of a meeting today of finance ministers of the Group of Seven industrialized nations. Gold prices also rose.
The Federal Reserve sold dollars for the fourth straight day, dealers said, but the currency bounced back from the intervention and ended near the highs of the session. 
Dealers said the dollar rose in spite of some speculation that the finance ministers would plan more serious steps at their Washington meeting to push the dollar down to help shrink the United States trade deficit.
The Group of Seven consists of the United States, Britain, Japan, West Germany, France, Italy and Canada.
Most traders went home yesterday without any positions for or against the dollar because of uncertainty about what the meeting would produce, said Kevin Lawrie, senior foreign exchange manager at the Bank of Boston in New York.
''We're approaching this next situation very tentatively,'' he said. ''People have been whipsawed.''
The market showed little reaction to a Commerce Department report that consumer spending rose nine-tenths of a percent and personal income rose four-tenths of a percent in August. The report pointed toward continued economic expansion.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 145.00 Japanese yen, unchanged from Thursday. In London the dollar traded higher at 145.35 yen. At the end of the day in New York, the dollar rose to 146.05 yen, from 145.65 on Thursday.
In London, a pound cost $1.5755 late yesterday, compared with Thursday's $1.5805. In New York the pound fell against the dollar to $1.5715 from $1.5790.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with Thursday's late rates, included: 1.9530 West German marks, up from 1.9466; 1.6933 Swiss francs, up from 1.6835; 1.1814 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1830; 6.6025 French francs, up from 6.5740, and 1,405.38 Italian lire, up from 1,400.25.
Gold prices were higher in active trading. The late London price was $364.50 an ounce, up from $363.25 late Thursday. The Zurich late price was $365.50, up from $363.50. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold for current delivery rose to $366.20 an ounce, compared with $365.50 Thursday. The Republic National Bank of New York quoted gold at $364.25 an ounce, up from $363.85.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (62%); HSB (PAR) (62%); HBC (NYSE) (62%); 0005 (HKSE) (62%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); ZURICH (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (62%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (62%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BRITISH POUND (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GERMAN MARK (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (52%); 



540 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES;
Bronx Cheers Now Stylish In Flushing

 BODY:
At a time when coffee, replays and gratification are often considered either instantaneous or worthless, maybe we have arrived at the point where five years is just too long for a memory to last. It has been almost that long since that early December evening when Met fans made the shocking discovery that propelled them through a winter and legitimized their team.
Have you heard? The Mets just got Gary Carter. Can you believe it? When do the playoff tickets go on sale? 
There will be no playoff tickets this October, and after the final home game this weekend, there may be no Gary Carter around here. He would leave with the recent memories of nasty sounds in his ears from the demanding ones at Shea Stadium.
He has been very well compensated to endure those sounds. If the people in the stands wish to overlook the facts that Carter, now 35, has caught more than 1,800 major league games, that he underwent knee surgery on Memorial Day and could have heeded his doctor's advice to forget about the remainder of this season, their right to those opinions is purchased at the ticket windows. Davey Johnson, for all his troubles as a manager, has not lost his powers of observation. Not long ago, when Carter was hearing those noises again, the manager thought out loud that New York was a very difficult place for an athlete to grow old.
''It's just, 'What have you done for me lately?' '' Johnson said. '' 'That's all we care. I don't care why you're having a problem. If you're having a problem, that's it.'
That's the way it is everywhere, but they're more sophisticated in New York.''
Johnson did not seem to be paying any compliments. By stating their opinions about Carter, forcefully and often, the fans have revealed something about themselves. If the growth of WFAN as an all-sports radio station has served any purpose, it has been to provide more than two years of daily evidence that any notion of the majority of New Yorkers as demanding, fair, and above all, knowledgeable observers of games has become history.
Mickey Mantle was revered at the end, even after his abilities had eroded. Willis Reed was not maligned by Knick fans for playing on oneleg. Y. A. Tittle grew very old very quickly with the Giants, but he was not booed into retirement. Ed Giacomin had garbage thrown at him in his early days as a goaltender with the Rangers, but at the end, when he was suddenly sent away without having won that elusive Stanley Cup, fans wept in the stands and turned on his former team.
Met fans have never been quite as tolerant as their image in the early days. There were even some cheers in July 1965, when the scoreboard delivered the news that a broken hip had ended Casey Stengel's days as manager.
But during the 1973 World Series, after Charles O. Finley, the owner of the Oakland A's, unsuccessfully attempted to banish an infielder named Mike Andrews for the crime of committing an error, the Met fans greeted Andrews's first appearance in New York with an emotional standing ovation.
Nowhere else did followers possess as complete an understanding of failure as they once did at Shea. And nowhere else has an unflattering transformation been so complete. Thirteen years later, in Game 7 of another Series, they stood for Bill Buckner, and jeered. Empathy is in short supply in Flushing, N.Y.
Perhaps the change in attitude is nothing more than the price athletes inevitably had to pay as a result of their staggering economic gains. Maybe George Foster, for all his foibles as a Met in the early years of the Doubleday regime, was on the cutting edge of the new contempt.
''Usually players are assessed by the amount of money that they make,'' Carter said. ''In this case, it's an altogether different story. Being injured, it's totally different.''
Maybe the bad vibes have something to do with the fact that it's difficult for almost everyone to age in and around Shea, what with ticket prices rising, with spontaneity removed by the disappearance of the general admission ticket, with blaring music targeted to a yuppie crowd, and with the added monthly expense of cable television. That is, if one's neighborhood has been plugged in.
You hear athletes say it all the time: New York can be, all at once, the greatest place to play and the worst.
''I don't know if that's what they like to go by, if that's their style, or what it may be,'' Carter said. ''You try to make the best of it. ''The surprising part of it is when somebody has a good career, you would hope that you would get support. But I guess it really doesn't matter.''
If you were Dwight Gooden and you had a choice, what would you think about growing old in Flushing, N.Y.?

GRAPHIC: Photo of Gary Carter (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: BASEBALL SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS FANS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); ICE HOCKEY (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (68%); 

PERSON: CARTER, GARY; MORAN, MALCOLM GARY EDMUND CARTER (93%); 



541 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: European Minds Who Fled Fascism

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
One of the less appreciated consequences of the rise of fascism in Europe in the 1930's was that it put an end to Europe's cultural and intellectual supremacy. That status was transferred to the United States in part by way of a small but historic emigration of the persecuted and the unwanted.
The exiles from Germany, Austria, Italy and France, many but not all Jews, created a new world in America, helping to make the United States supreme in such fields as nuclear physics, architecture, painting, and probably also in social thought. From Einstein to the political philsopher Hannah Arendt, the psychoanalist Bruno Bettelheim to the film director Billy Wilder, the exiles turned the United States into the country of the boldest and most original discovery and creation. 
This is the subject of ''Exiles,'' a documentary produced and directed by Richard Kaplan that is to be shown on Channel 13 on Sunday night at 7 o'clock. Mr. Kaplan explores two aspects of the intellectual migration. The first traces the escape itself from Europe, the routes that were taken, the reasons for flight, the ways in which groups in the United States provided help to those in danger.
 
Changed Forever
The second hourlong segment of ''Exiles'' shows the manifold ways in which the figures of the anti-fascist exodus raised the level of American intellectual life, changing this country forever.
The film covers one of the earliest and most influential efforts to enable threatened intellectuals in Germany to escape. In 1933, Alvin Johnson, the president of the New School for Social Research, got in touch with Emile Lederer, an economist just dismissed from his teaching post in Heidelberg to tell him that he wanted to establish a ''University in Exile'' at the New School, a university made up of distinguished German academics who could no longer teach in their native country.
The two men met in London, to which Lederer summoned a 28-year-old former student of his, Hans Speier, an anti-Nazi social scientist. Johnson gave Mr. Speier a list of 10 names of persecuted professors that he wanted for the New School. Mr. Speier, who came to a Sept. 18 meeting at the New School to celebrate the completion of Mr. Kaplan's film, traveled throughout Germany to deliver the invitations. The University in Exile, which became an important part of the New School's prominence in New York, was born.
 
An Unsung Hero
Another element of the exodus from fascist Europe described in ''Exiles'' is that of an unsung American hero named Varian Fry, a special emissary of the Emergency Rescue Committee, a group that was set up in the United States after the German invasion of France to help refugees reach safe haven. Many of the anti-Nazi Germans who had fled their country for France in the 1930's found themselves in the southern unoccupied zone of France where they knew it was only a matter of time before the Gestapo caught up with them.
Fry, a journalist with no experience in underground work, went to Marseilles that year and eventually helped some 2,000 refugees to travel to the United States, many of whom would no doubt have been murdered had they remained in Nazi-occupied France.
Three figures closely associated with Fry, including Henry and Claire Ehrmann, both of whom were saved through his efforts, attended the New School celebration. The third figure was Albert O. Hirschman, an economist at the School of Advanced Studies at Princeton University, who helped Fry in France to find the artists, writers, scientists and others on the Emergency Rescue Committee's list.
 
'A Great Adventure'
''I look at this experience as a sort of exciting high point in my life,'' Professor Hirschman said in an interview with several of the exiles. ''It was a great adventure.''
Fry, he said, wrote a book about his activities in France entitled ''Surrender on Demand.'' He was given a Legion of Honor award by the French Government. But his heroic achievement went largely unnoticed in the United States in the years after the war and he died some years ago in obscurity.
Professor Hirschman and Professor and Mrs. Ehrmann well illustrate the exile phenomenon. All three were born in Germany. Professor Hirschman and Professor Ehrmann, who had been classmates at the French lycee in their native Berlin, left Germany in 1933 shortly after Hitler came to power and went to live in France. Mrs. Ehrmann, then 18 years old, came to France in 1937 after the arrest of her father, a journalist.
When the Germans conquered France in 1940, all three went to the unoccupied, southern half of France. When Fry and Professor Hirschmann began their rescue operation, they needed to test the escape route to France via the Pyrenees. Professor and Mrs. Ehrmann, who had met and married in France, were chosen to make the trip.
''Fry said somebody has to try getting out of the country,'' Professor Ehrmann recalled. ''He said the Ehrmanns must go to find out how the border with Spain works.''
There was another reason. ''We knew that we were on the list of people wanted by the Gestapo and we didn't have much time,'' Mrs. Ehrmann said.
 
A Minority Went Back
One striking thing about the exiles is how few of them returned to their native countries when the war was over. Those who did return, like the Nobel Prize-winning author Thomas Mann, were a small minority. ''Exiles'' traces how a number of others, persecuted in this country for supposed ''Communist'' ideas during the McCarthy period, including the film director Fritz Lang, also returned to Germany.
Among those who stayed, for example, were the various exiles whose work made possible the atomic bomb - Einstein, Edward Teller and Hans Bethe, (Teller and Bethe appear in Mr. Kaplan's film) along with Enrico Fermi and Leo Szilard. Architects like Walter Gropius and Mies van der Rohe; psychoanalysts like Dr. Bettelheim, Karen Horney and Erich Fromm; musicians like Erich Leinsdorf; scholars like Arendt, Leo Strauss, the influential philosopher of the University of Chicago, and Herbert Marcuse, the Marxist critic who became an idol of the 1960's generation.
Some of those who gathered in New York for the New School celebration explained why. The sense that Germany had become hostile territory could not be erased by the mere defeat of Hitler.
''When you went back to Germany,'' Professor Hirschman said, ''especially in the early days, you never knew what were the real feelings of those who shook your hand, whether they wanted to be shaking it or not.''
Asked what the experience of having been an exile meant to him, Professor Speier replied:
''It means nothing at all to me. What was important was Hitler, not the fact that I was a refugee. I got very impatient in 1933 with people who left and felt homesick. The only time I felt homesick was when I went back to Germany in 1945 and saw a German travelogue about America. That made me homesick.'' Professor Ehrmann, answering the same question, said: ''If we were all to write our autobiographies, it would be an episode, but not a central fact of our lives.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EXILES (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); AUSTRIA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: WNET (TV STATION) (NYC)

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; NAZI ERA; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (79%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); PHYSICS (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (64%); REFUGEES (64%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (55%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, RICHARD BRUNO BETTELHEIM (57%); HANNAH ARENDT (57%); SAMUEL 'BILLY' WILDER (56%); 



542 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Page 46, Column 7; National Desk

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS

 BODY:
Questions appear on page 13.
 1. The stamp bears the name brontosaurus (thunder lizard), discarded by paleontologists, who refer to the dinosaur as an apatosaurus (deceptive lizard).
 2. That American politics dictates his conduct of foreign policy. 
 3. The clothing is worn by supporters of Mayor Art Agnos's joint campaign for a measure on the November ballot to give legal recognition to the ''domestic partnership'' of homosexual couples, and a measure to allow construction of a new baseball stadium for the Giants.
 4. Mr. Fernandez was himself a New York City high school dropout who earned a high school equivalency diploma in the military.
 5. It is the world's fastest train. The cushioning protects vineyards and wine cellars from rumbles generated at 186 miles an hour.
 6. The films, selected by the Library of Congress for the National Film Registry, must bear a notice of alteration if any changes are made without the film makers' permission, to protect the films' integrity.
 7. A protein linked to the disease has been found outside the brain for the first time, in the skin, blood vessels and colon of patients who have Alzheimer's.
 8. Mr. Jiang, a more mainstream leader than Prime Minister Li Peng, is identified with the policy of economic openness to the Western world.
 9. There will be no statue of Lenin, which has been the mandatory national icon, on display at the All-Union Sculpture Exhibition of 1991.
 10. The Israeli Government is so divided that Mr. Rabin was unable to go beyond its plan on holding Palestinian elections in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
 11. The court awarded the America's Cup to the San Diego Yacht Club, overturning a lower court decision giving it to New Zealand's Mercury Bay Boating Club. The San Diego salts had sailed a catamaran, which is faster than the traditional monohull.
 12. The Corcoran said it regretted offending artists by canceling an exhibition of photographs by Robert Mappelthorpe that would have entangled the museum in a Congressional battle over funds. The statement did not address the issue of artistic freedom.
 13. Monica de Greiff, Colombia's Minister of Justice, resigned amid death threats, although she had denied last month that she would resign. At the time she was in Washington to negotiate an aid package to protect Colombian judges.
 14. There are questions about whether the store will be able to keep its shelves full in light of a cash crisis at its Canadian parent company, the Campeau Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: QUESTION

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (61%); NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); NEW YORK GIANTS (57%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%); LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (56%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA POLITICS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (71%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (70%); BASEBALL (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SAILING (68%); LIBRARIES (68%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (83%); 



543 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-SOVIET TALKS END WITH PROGRESS ON ARMS CONTROL

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JACKSON, Wyo., Sept. 23

 BODY:
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union ended two days of talks here today by proclaiming progress on a broad array of arms control issues.
''We have moved from confrontation to dialogue and now to cooperation,'' Mr. Baker said. The Soviet Foreign Minister said that the talks had ''placed Soviet-American relations on a new stage.''
 
Probably in Washington
The two foreign ministers, who spoke in separate news conferences after the talks concluded, announced that President Bush and Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet President, would meet next year in late spring or early summer. In Kennebunkport, Me., President Bush said the meeting would probably take place in Washington. 
The announcement came a day after the Soviet side conditionally dropped its demand that the Americans abandon plans for a space-based missile defense - a major obstacle to a strategic arms accord.
Mr. Baker and Mr. Shevardnadze today signed agreements on monitoring stocks of chemical weapons and on providing notice of strategic military exercises. They also reached agreement on broad principles for verifying limits on strategic forces and nuclear tests, and they concluded accords on the environment and on allowing Eskimos to traverse the Bering Strait.
 
'Open Skies' Proposal
Moscow also responded positively to an American ''open skies'' proposal that would allow unarmed aircraft from NATO and Warsaw Pact nations to fly over one another's territory.
By themselves, the agreements represented noteworthy but not spectacular accomplishments. But taken together, the agreements and the new Soviet arms control initiative presented here on Friday have restored a sense of momentum in American-Soviet relations.
American officials hailed as a major breakthrough the Soviet offer conditionally dropping the demand that the United States agree to curbs on its ''Star Wars'' space defense program before the signing of a treaty limiting long-range nuclear arms. But Moscow made clear that it would retain its right to abrogate a strategic arms treaty if the United States moved to deploy a space-based defense in violation of the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty, which restricts the testing and deployment of anti-missile systems.
Soviet officials also said that Moscow would unconditionally tear down its Krasnoyarsk radar in Siberia, which Washington says violates the ABM treaty. The United States had informed Moscow that it would not sign a strategic arms treaty until the radar was dismantled.
The Soviet Union made a new conventional arms proposal by agreeing to include some types of fighters and bombers in the talks - items it had previously sought to keep off the negotiating table. Mr. Shevardnadze also announced that Moscow wanted to hold a meeting of heads of states in late 1990 to sign a new conventional arms agreement.
 
Bush Eager for Meeting
President Bush, in a statement this evening in Kennebunkport, where he is spending the weekend, said, ''I look forward to meeting with President Gorbachev.''
''Our meeting will afford an opportunity to reaffirm our mutual commitment to moving the U.S.-Soviet relationship forward as underscored by the progress at the Wyoming Ministerial,'' the statement said. ''I commend the efforts of Secretary Baker and Foreign Minister Shevardnadze.''
Earlier, during a break from a golf game in the rain at the Cape Arundel Golf Club, the President commented on the site of the summit meeting, saying, ''Probably Washington would be proper for this one.''
 
A Productive Gathering
The two-day meeting at the Jackson Lake Lodge in Grand Teton National Park, not far from Mr. Baker's ranch, was more productive than most of the meetings between American and Soviet foreign ministers in recent years. More progress was made here on arms control than at the Moscow summit meeting last year between President Ronald Reagan and President Gorbachev.
The sessions came as the Bush Administration was under fire for moving too slowly on American-Soviet relations. It appeared that the meeting this weekend would allow President Bush to more effectively counter such criticism, though most of the arms control initiatives were advanced by Moscow.
At the end of the meeting, Mr. Baker said that President Bush would announce an important initiative on banning chemical weapons in a speech on Monday at the United Nations. Mr. Baker did not provide details.
One result of the two days of talks at Jackson Lake Lodge appears to be the establishment of a more intimate working relationship between Mr. Baker and Mr. Shevardnadze.
 
A Full Weekend
Talks here ran well over schedule. The two met one-on-one for almost three hours on Friday, and there were broader discussions on regional confrontations, human rights and international issues like the environment and terrorism.
Friday night, Mr. Baker and his wife, Susan, took the Shevardnadzes for a dinner of trout, tenderloin and salmon at a local restaurant, while tonight the Secretary of State planned a Western-style cookout for the Soviet delegation. On Sunday Mr. Baker plans to take Mr. Shevardnadze fly-fishing before the two men take off in the Secretary of State's Air Force jet to New York and the United Nations.
The encounter here could mark the beginning of a departure from the standard United States-Soviet agenda, which for years has included arms control, human rights, regional problems and relations between the two countries themselves, with transnational issues added only this year. Briefings by both Soviet and American officials suggested how much the question of changes within the Soviet bloc are becoming a prominent feature of the American-Soviet talks.
 
Smaller Human Rights Agenda
With the Soviets having reduced their involvement in Afghanistan and the Americans their role in Central America, and with both sides keeping in the background in the Middle East, there appears to be less of a chance of a Soviet-American confrontation in the third world. And with the Soviets now letting out more Jews than the United States is prepared to accept, and allowing much greater freedom of expression at home, the human rights agenda is smaller as well. Because cooperation on transnational issues like the environment has yet to get off the ground, arms control remains the major unresolved question of the old agenda.
But in a clear sign that the Americans are recognizing that a new agenda may soon be called for, Mr. Baker spent the entire four-hour flight to Wyoming, as well as part of the dinner last night, talking to Mr. Shevardnadze about Mr. Gorbachev's restructuring program and how it will affect Soviet nationalities and the Soviet economy.
In addition, for the first time, Soviet and American officials discussed the state of Soviet economic changes.
At a news conference Saturday evening, Mr. Baker said he and his Soviet counterpart also discussed the question of German reunification and the emigration of thousands of East Germans to West Germany. But Mr. Baker declined to elaborate on the discussion, calling it confidential.
 
The Progress in Arms Control
Nevertheless, until a new agenda takes hold, arms control will remain paramount, a fact reflected in the agreements today.
The two sides signed an ''umbrella agreement'' in which they affirmed their desire in principle to implement a variety of test verification measures for any future strategic arms treaty. The idea, initially suggested by President Bush, is to prove that a treaty can be verified to improve prospects for ratification by Congress. But the two sides will have to work out in Geneva their differences over which verification measures they want to test, like an early exchange of data and establishment of on-site monitoring of each other's missile production installations. Moscow has suggested some highly intrusive forms of inspection that the Pentagon opposes.
As one part of this verification program the two sides agreed that beginning immediately they would notify the other at least two weeks in advance of any major strategic exercises involving heavy bomber aircraft capable of carrying nuclear weapons.
The two sides signed a memorandum of understanding on chemical weapons that provides for verification and data exchanges. Proposed by the United States, the agreement calls for an exchange of ''general data'' on each country's chemical weapons capabilities before the end of this year, as well as visits to each other's chemical weapons plants and storage sites.
In a second stage of the agreement to be negotiated later, the two sides would engage in a detailed data exchange on each other's chemical weapons capabilities and surprise inspections.
The two sides also said they made progress on ways to monitor limits on missiles based on trucks and railroad cars, one of the most difficult technical issues holding up a strategic arms agreement.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d strolling with Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze in Grand Teton National Park after concluding two days of meetings in Jackson, Wyo. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); BERING SEA (55%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WASHINGTON (DC)

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SPACE WEAPONS (STAR WARS); CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); SPACE WEAPONS (89%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (88%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (87%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (73%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD (MIN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (88%); 



544 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1822 words

HEADLINE: New York Region's Housing: No Signs of Return to Boom

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
More than a year after the great housing boom of the 1980's came to an end in New York City and its suburbs, the inventory of unsold homes has grown, demand remains sluggish and experts see no clear signs of improvement.
The shift, prompted in part by retrenchment in the region's economy and a slowdown in population growth, has come as a painful shock to many people who purchased homes between 1982 and 1988, when prices increased more rapidly than at any other time in 60 years. To some, it seemed that housing values could only continue to rise.
Now, according to economists and real-estate executives, those selling houses, condominiums and cooperative apartments across the New York region are lucky to get as much as they would have in early 1988, and some must accept 10 percent to 20 percent less.
 
Seeking a New Psychology
The result is a psychological standoff. Thousands of hopeful sellers - people who stretched their finances and went deep into debt to own homes in one of the nation's most expensive areas - have been holding out for months, sometimes reluctantly reducing their asking prices, but still frustrated in their search for acceptable bids. And many buyers are hanging back, fearful of paying too much. 
''What happened to all those yuppie families?'' asked Ricky Peled, who has been trying to sell her two-bedroom apartment on West 83d Street for six months. Although she has cut her asking price by $30,000, to $385,000, none of the 25 people who have inspected the co-op have even offered a bid.
Despite the slowdown, hundreds of homes are being sold in the city and suburbs every day. Brokers dealing in expensive Manhattan cooperatives, some priced at more than $500,000, say demand and prices increased during the summer. Developers of new condominiums are finding buyers, though slowly. And anxious sellers in the suburbs are becoming more aggressive.
 
Turning to an Auction
''We are dealing with mass psychology,'' said one suburban developer, Marc Nevas, who began marketing a complex of 16 town house condominiums in Westport, Conn., in early 1987 and has so far sold only five. So he is holding an auction.
''In a market like this everybody is worried about what everybody else is willing to pay, so we are putting people in the same room,'' he added. Opening bids at the Oct. 15 auction will be $135,000, less than half the previous asking price.
While some people are struggling to master the psychology of a housing market gone sour, economists say the downturn rests on forces of supply and demand that will take time to change.
''The New York area is simply tapped out in terms of income and buying power,'' said Rae Rosen, regional economist for the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York. She said housing had soared so quickly and so far beyond the financial reach of would-be buyers that even reductions of 10 to 20 percent might not end the slump.
 
Giddiness Is Gone
Ms. Rosen said she did not expect the market to begin a broad-based recovery until 1991, as gradual salary increases bring more housing within the reach of potential buyers. Nor will it resume the giddy rate of appreciation of the middle 1980's, she added, predicting that housing values in the early 1990's would increase at only slightly more than the overall rate of inflation.
In one measure of how housing values soared earlier in the decade, the National Association of Realtors, a trade group, said the median selling price of a single-family house in the New York metropolitan area increased by more than 150 percent between 1982 and the beginning of 1988, to $183,500 from $70,500. The association said the median price reached a peak of $194,000 during the spring of 1988 and slid back to $185,200 by last spring.
 
Manhattan Cooperatives
That meant the median house price in the region was roughly double the median national price of $92,900, the trade organization said.
The sales prices of New York City's cooperative apartments are impossible to track precisely because they are not recorded with the government. But they clearly surged. An analysis by the Corcoran Group, a brokerage that deals in expensive Manhattan neighborhoods, said the average price of a four-room, two-bedroom cooperative it sold in 1982 was $220,200 and had climbed to $475,960 by the end of 1988.
Like the prices of other residential property, the prices of Manhattan cooperatives were level or declined slightly during the first half of 1989, a period when, the brokerage said, its prices fell by 3 percent. But by August, it added, had risen again by 3 percent.
 
'Pendulum Always Swings'
Economists say the New York region's six-year surge in housing values resulted from several powerful forces. New York City's recovery from a fiscal crisis, the rapid growth of its banking and securities industries, a sweeping migration of young professionals into the region, the expansion of its suburban corporate centers and a steep decline in interest rates that had climbed to more than 15 percent on mortgage loans by 1981 all served to create a huge new market of buyers.
''These were very good times for New York, but the pendulum always swings,'' said Louis Winnick, a housing analyst for the Fund for the City of New York, a nonprofit urban-research group. Some of the forces behind the boom are responsible for the slump.
The region's population, which earlier in the decade grew by more than 40,000 people a year, is now expanding much more slowly, gaining only 7,700 residents in 1988, according to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Where Is Bottom? Corporate expansion has also slowed sharply. Hostile takeovers, decentralization and layoffs of middle-level executives have carved deeply into the corporate ranks of the region's suburban business centers, while the Wall Street job losses that followed the 1987 stock market debacle have yet to be reversed.
No one knows if the housing slump has reached its lowest point.
''We've got too many people trying not to sell into a bad market,'' said George Sternlieb, a professor of urban studies and a housing specialist at Rutgers University. ''If you sit too long, you get selling panic.''
Although the sluggish market is affecting most communities in the New York region - and housing at most price levels - some are faring better than others. Executives say many of the most expensive properties continue to appreciate, including estates and waterfront houses. So do large apartments in fashionable Manhattan neighborhoods. These homes are bringing well in excess of $1 million.
Where they exist, well-kept suburban houses that are priced at less than $180,000, within the reach of young couples and moderate- to middle-income families - those with annual incomes of no more than $70,000 - are also in demand, executives say.
But the segments of the market where inventories are the largest and where sellers are enduring the biggest frustrations include the so-called ''trade up'' suburban house, where buyers must sell another house before they can move. These are typically priced at $300,000 up to $800,000.
A weak part of the market in New York City, experts said, is in studio and one-bedroom cooperatives and condominiums that appeal to single people, where prices have appreciated little, if at all, for more than two years.
Even at its worst, the New York area housing market is robust compared with recent conditions in Texas, Louisiana, Colorado and other states where a glut of new housing was fueled by lavish lending policies of savings and loan associations that have since gone out of business. Experts said the New York area was not experiencing anything resembling the widespread defaults and foreclosures of the Sunbelt.
Nor is the slump in New York so severe as the steep, brief depressions that hit the market twice before in the last three decades. The first came after a 1961 overhaul of the city's building code that led to a glut of new construction; the second came during the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, when thousands of homeowners fled to the suburbs and beyond.
 
Sagging in Suburbs
''These periods saw blood in the streets,'' said Mr. Winnick, who said the two prior downturns had been so severe that some owners of cooperative apartments could not sell them at all.
Unlike their counterparts in New York City, longtime homeowners in the suburbs are experiencing a market slump with little precedent over the last 40 years. Except for the period of soaring interest rates in 1980 and 1981, when buyers retreated from the market, experts said, suburban housing values have risen steadily for decades.
In many suburban communities the inventory of unsold houses, already much larger than in the mid-1980's, continues to grow.
 
Buyers Can Be Demanding
On Long Island, the Multiple Listing Service for Nassau County said it had 9,046 homes listed in August, up sharply from 6,958 listings in August 1988. The number of Nassau County sales shrank to 568 in August from 653 in August the prior year.
There is a similar imbalance of supply and demand in Bergen County, N.J., where an analysis by Bill Higgins, a realtor, found 8,934 homes available in the first week of September, compared with 7,594 the same week in 1988. He also found that properties had been on the market longer - from an average of 97 days in 1988 to 107 days in 1989 -and that an average price of $278,264 in September 1988 had declined to $276,588 this month.
And throughout the region buyers have become standoffish.
''For now I'm out of the market,'' said Steve Ewing, a 39-year-old investment banker who has been looking at Manhattan cooperatives and condominiums for nine months. He added that he decided to put off the search this month after making an informal offer on an apartment on the Upper West Side, withdrawing it a week later and finding that the seller was still anxious to bargain.
''There is no pressure to buy,'' he said. ''I think things will get softer.''
But some sellers are finding their way to acceptable compromises. Though disappointed by the prices that their homes have commanded, they say they have been amply compensated when they purchased larger homes in the same sluggish market. ''You've got to sell low, but you can buy low, too,'' said Susan Schweitzer of Huntington Village, L.I., who spent six months struggling to sell a three-bedroom house.
Mrs. Schweitzer ultimately sold the house in August for $210,000, $35,000 less than she had hoped. But now she and her husband and 2-year-old daughter are preparing to move to a bigger house nearby in Melville, which they are buying for $255,000, $30,000 less than the seller originally asked.
''We did fine,'' said Mrs. Schweitzer, 35, who said she had become conditioned to think that housing values would not decline. ''It is just a shock to realize your home is not worth what you thought,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: Graph of median prices of houses in the New York metropolitan area and in the U.S., 1981-1989 (Source: National Association of Realtors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; FORECASTS HOUSING MARKET (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); SUBURBS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (88%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; ROSEN, RAE



545 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL/3-20

 
Alternative Soviet political parties that have the same rights as the Communist Party could be legally created under a law that the Soviet legislature has drafted. Page 1

 
Plans for a U.S.-Soviet summit next year and progress on a broad array of arms control fronts were announced by Secretary of State Baker and Soviet Foreign Minister Shevarndadze at the end of their two days of talks. 1

 
News analysis: An arms treaty on long-range nuclear missiles seems closer to fruition as Moscow has conditionally put aside a demand that the United States abandon its ''Star Wars'' anti-missile program. 16

 
Lithuania declares annexation invalid 5

 
Arab militias in the West Bank, armed and trained by the Israeli military, are regularly assaulting their neighbors, bolstering the army's effort to quash the Arab uprising, according to West Bank residents. 1

 
The guns of Lebanon were quiet as representatives from the warring Christian and Muslim factions agreed on measures intended to bring the country back to a semblance of normalcy. 3

 
Cambodians are celebrating again, with the last of Vietnam's troops scheduled to leave on Tuesday. But the celebrations are tempered by foreboding about the return of the Khmer Rouge. 18

 
U.S. reassessing Indochina policy 18

 
Beijing puts Khmer Rouge on shorter leash 18

 
Colombia's democratic system is in turmoil as the drug war's violence persists. The latest status symbol among politicians is to have an ambulance in your motorcade. 20 
 
 
Coffee impasse imperils drug fight 20

 
Pretoria cracked down on a protest against apartheid by preventing a huge march by black and white women through the South African capital. Meanwhile, white supremacists were permitted to hold their own downtown rally. 3

 
Pakistanis view U.S. as a suspicious friend 19

 
Quebec seperatists jockey for 90's power play 11

 
Dollar's rise could hurt global economy, ministers say 15

 
NATIONAL/22-31, 44

 
''Victory over drugs,'' the goal which President Bush set forth in his drug-policy address, cannot be achieved in this generation, the Administration now concedes. 1

 
In the wake of Hurricane Hugo, there is a vexing, multimillion-dollar question: What can be built and rebuilt on South Carolina's battered coast? 1

 
Hugo will be one of the costliest hurricanes ever to to blow into the United States, according to insurers, who have dispatched a small army of claims adjusters into stricken areas of the Southeast. 44

 
People of mixed parentage do not fit into traditional racial classifications, and many are not sure if they want to fit. About 3 percent of all children born in the United States are ''mixed,'' demographers say. 22

 
The anti-air pollution plan of President Bush is also a national energy policy in the making. The measure would favor natural gas and other clean-burning fuels at the expense of coal and gasoline. 22

 
A bill to free a jailed mother who has been in prison more than two years because of a custody dispute was signed by President Bush. 22
 
Bush will back national education goals 24

 Bush asks action against abortion 27

 
A sailing voyage around the world will be undertaken by a prosperous Chicago businessman who wants to set an inspirational example for underprivileged children. The man grew up in a single-parent household living on welfare. 26

 
Search for 1776 gunboat 28

 
School spanking is debated as abuse 23

 
Veterans housing program feels pinch 31

 
Panel finds no risk in tests of gene-altered organisms 27

 
REGIONAL/34-47

 
The supply of unsold homes has grown, and demand remains sluggish, a year after the housing boom of the 1980's ended in the New York City area. Homesellers are lucky to get what they would have received in early 1988, experts said. 1

 
The crash of the USAir jetliner may have resulted as much from the inexperience of the cockpit crew as the condition of the aircraft, the way pilots are assigned to flights or countless other variables, Federal investigators said. 34

 
Jet toll highest in a decade 35

 
A century-old wooden bridge in Brooklyn, closed for repairs since 1985, was reopened with flags and brass bands in a ceremony that officially reunited two neighborhoods on opposite sides of the Gowanus Canal. 40

 
New Jersey's electoral makeup may change significantly as state agencies are preparing for a new voter registration effort. 39

 
Bulletproof vest saves officer in Brooklyn 40

 
Judges reverses ban on Cliff Notes parody 41

 
A protest over bail for suspects in racial killing 42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); VIET NAM (78%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (74%); US DOLLAR (74%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); NATURAL GAS (70%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); TROPICAL STORMS (65%); INSURANCE CLAIMS ADJUSTING (60%); WEATHER (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



546 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 4, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Help Warsaw Lure Private Investors

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WARSAW, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher told Poland's new Government this week that Washington would help lure private credits and investment here but did not offer more immediate aid than President Bush brought with him when he visited Warsaw in July.
But Mr. Mossbacher's line-holding comments on aid took on added significance at a time when the non-Communist ministers charged with charting Poland's economic future are looking for quick measures to halt accelerating economic decay. Figures made public by the Central Office for Statistics this week revealed an economy saddled with huge debt, low export earnings, deteriorating production and soaring wage and price levels. 
 
Visit Ended on Thursday
Mr. Mosbacher's five-day visit to Poland and Hungary, which ended on Thursday, came as the Bush Administration was struggling with Democrats in Congress who have offered a more generous aid package to the two Eastern-bloc countries that have radically transformed their political systems.
While they are aware that the Democrats are likely to press their assertions that by being too timid with aid, the Administration is missing historic opportunities, officials in both countries appear to understand that there will be no swift and substantial increase in Western aid and they have begun to scale back their expectations.
Marcin Swiecicki, the Minister for Foreign Trade and one of four Communists in the 22-member Solidarity-led Cabinet, told Mr. Mosbacher that Poland was ''determined to carry out a reasonable amount of privatization.'' Speaking at a news conference Wednesday, he said that Poland urgently sought assistance in ''creating favorable conditions for private enterprise,'' from the West. During his stay, the Secretary signed some minor accords, including one on tourism.
His aides let it be known that he would propose a package of further guarantees by Washington to allay concerns of private investors about things like repatriating profits, expropriation, taxation and property rights.
 
Upheaval Seen for Workers
As the Government prepares to meet with International Monetary Fund officials at the Fund's annual meeting later this month in Washington, Leszek Balcerowicz, the Finance Minister and chief architect of economic policy, said the Government would make public in early October a program for reducing Government spending, even at the cost of shutting down major unprofitable enterprises, and opening the economy to private investment.
Witold Trzeciakowski, minister without portfolio for economic affairs, told a French newspaper this week that a third of Polish workers would have to deal with losing or changing their place of work. In the past, such pressures at the workplace have swamped social tranquillity and political stability.
Officials did not conceal the enormous problems they face. Government planners report a burst of entrepreneurial activity, but little of it aimed at producing marketable goods that would satisfy angry consumers.
Instead, profiteers are operatiung back-pocket trading companies, exploiting severe shortages to collect enormous profit margins on their sales of small lots of goods.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; HUNGARY

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CREDIT; POLAND-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN; MOSBACHER, ROBERT A SR (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



547 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 15, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: GROUP OF 7 WARNS ON RISE OF DOLLAR

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Economic ministers from the seven largest industrial democracies said today that a further rise in the dollar could undercut efforts to promote a healthy global economy, and they vowed fresh cooperative efforts to try to keep a lid on the dollar.
The ministers also reaffirmed support for further policy coordination, which they said has helped lay the groundwork for the past seven years of economic growth with relatively low inflation.
But in a two-page communique issued after a daylong meeting at Blair House, across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House, the Group of Seven nations left vague how they intended to reimpose authority on the foreign-exchange markets. In recent years, the currency markets have been noted for their ability to defy the intentions of the Group of Seven, which includes the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Canada and Italy. 
 
Warning for World Economy
The communique said they ''considered the rise in recent months of the dollar inconsistent with longer-run economic fundamentals,'' adding that ''a rise of the dollar above current levels or an excessive decline could adversely affect prospects for the world economy.''
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, meeting with reporters after the session, declined to elaborate on the communique.
''I have decided to discontinue my longstanding policy of commenting volubly on the dollar,'' Mr. Brady said, apparently referring to market disturbances that have followed some of his earlier observations on the dollar.
Other ministers also declined to expand on the communique, suggesting a general agreement to keep the markets guessing on any intent.
At a meeting last April, the ministers issued a similar statement, but today's language, officials noted, was stronger, signaling a rise in concern over next year's trade prospects.
In April, the ministers chose the term ''counterproductive'' to describe a further dollar rise or excessive fall, against today's terminology that it could ''adversely affect prospects for the world economy.''
Japan's Finance Minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, said after the meeting: ''All in all I believe the meeting was very meaningful and constructive.''
 
Officials Express Concern
The Group of Seven ministers were concerned about a rise in the dollar against the West German mark and the Japanese yen approaching 20 percent so far this year.
Although the United States trade imbalances have narrowed over the past two years, many officials fear that progress could stall or even be reversed because of the higher price tags for American exports and lower prices for foreign goods that result from a stronger dollar.
On Friday, a senior American Treasury official who asked not to be identified said that if the dollar continued to strengthen for a lengthy period of time, ''this obviously is a matter of concern for future adjustment.''
At the April meeting, the ministers also agreed to try to restrain the dollar's advance. One result was heavy intervention in the foreign exchange markets, in which central banks either buy or sell dollars to influence the currency's value. But the dollar continued rising.
A reason for the authorities' difficulties in restraining the dollar is the growth in trading volume. A recent study by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York placed foreign exchange trading in the United States alone at $128.9 billion a day, more than twice the volume three years ago.
Another reason is the trouble generally acknowledged by most officials in coordinating economic policies. One private economist, C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a Washington policy research group, has termed policy coordination ''a shambles.''
Conflicting domestic economic policy goals compounds the problems. In the United States, the Federal Reserve, facing an economy that has proved more buoyant than expected, is reluctant to cut interest rates because it continues to worry about inflation. Such cuts, however, could make the dollar less attractive in the markets.
On the other hand, Bonn and Tokyo are not keen on raising their own interest rates, even though this could weaken the dollar, because of the dampening effects on their economic growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: WORLD ECONOMY TRADE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (62%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H



548 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Moscow Sets Aside Big Obstacle to Arms Treaty

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JACKSON, Wyo., Sept. 23

 BODY:
The new strategic arms control initiative put forth by the Soviet Union here on Friday appears to remove the principal obstacle to a treaty on reducing long-range nuclear weapons.
After years of insisting that the Americans abandon their plans to deploy a ''Star Wars'' space-based anti-missile program so as to conclude a strategic arms treaty, Moscow has conditionally put aside that demand.
The Soviet initiative was the highlight of the arms control meetings here, which saw modest agreements reached on the monitoring of chemicals weapon stocks and the broad principles of verifying limits on strategic weapons and nuclear weapons treaties.
 
An Eye on Congress
But in presenting their strategic arms initiative, Moscow changed its position in a clever way, according to accounts by American officials provided before today's round of meetings. 
The Soviet side apparently designed its concessions to enable the Bush Administration to tell conservatives that it has not sacrificed the ''Star Wars'' program to get a strategic arms accord, while at the same protecting Moscow's security concerns. Conservatives in the Senate, however, may not necessarily see it that way and may seek to derail what they are asked to ratify.
The initiative was presented by the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, to Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d in talks here Friday at a mountaintop lodge at Grand Teton National Park.
 
A Warning From Soviets
The Soviet side told the Americans that they would sign and carry out a strategic arms treaty without securing assurances ahead of time that the United States would not deploy a space-based defense shield. But in the next breath Soviet officials warned Mr. Baker that if the United States ever broke out of the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty by moving to deploy ''Star Wars'' defenses, Moscow would reserve the right to abrogate the strategic arms agreement.
In other words, Moscow, apparently recognizing that this was the only way to get the strategic arms reduction talks, or Start, off dead center, agreed to defer but not abandon its objections to ''Star Wars.''
''The linkage between a Start agreement and curbs on 'Star Wars' is still there, but it is moved into the future,'' said an American official involved in the talks here who welcomed the Soviet move while noting that clarifications were being sought.
''Kicking it down the road allows us to get a strategic arms treaty now,'' he said. ''But the Soviets still retain the threat to destroy Start in the longer term if the United States abandones the A.B.M. treaty and moves to deploy space defenses.''
The new Soviet approach, which represents an evolution in Moscow's thinking, appears to reflect the calculation that Congress is not going to give strong support to a space weapons program anyway so there is no reason to hold up a strategic arms agreement. Soviet officials themselves appear to be acknowledging that gone are the days when Reagan Administration officials and their conservative allies in Congress talked boldly of plans to speed up the deployment of anti-missile defenses - irrespective of the A.B.M. Treaty, which sharply restricts testing and deployment of anti-missile systems.
Budgetary pressures have forced delays in ''Star Wars'' research, and major questions remain about the technological feasibility of a space-based defense. And while the Bush Administration has retained President Reagan's rhetorical commitment to such defenses, its true allegiance to them is in doubt.
Moscow may also be calculating that a new strategic arms agreement will in itself further deflate proponents of a space defense by alleviating American concerns over the threat posed by Soviet missiles. Moscow hopes that as the perceived Soviet threat recedes, so will the case for space-based defenses.
Beyond that, Moscow may have concluded that its initiative is the only way to revive the stalled strategic arms talks. Completing a strategic arms treaty has remained a top Soviet goal, but with the superpower deadlock over space weapons, there seemed to be little chance that a treaty could be finished soon.
 
Little Room for Maneuver
Both Washington and Moscow have had little room for maneuver on substance of the issue of space defenses, making deferral of the matter an attractive option for both sides.
Any sign of flexibility on the part of the Administration on the testing and deployment of space defenses was bound to be assailed by conservative Republicans as a breaking of faith with the Reagan vision.
Economic and military considerations have given Moscow every incentive to oppose any agreement that would legitimize a technological race to develop space-based defenses. Such a competition would run counter to Moscow's plans to transfer military resources to its ailing civilian economy.
The Soviet side would also be hard put to engage in a ''Star Wars'' competition that turned on the development of computers and other forms of advanced technology, areas of clear American advantage. It is a race they know they cannot win.
Given these obstacles, deferring a resolution of the space weapons issue may be the way out, though Moscow has indicated that it is still prepared to discuss the issue of what tests can be conducted in space should Washington be interested.
 
Risks for Both Sides
Putting off the ''Star Wars'' dispute, however, carries risks for both sides. It perpetuates the dispute over how to interpret the A.B.M. Treaty's restrictions on space testing, creating the possiblity for misunderstandings further down the road.
When the idea of deferring the Star Wars issue was broached in the Reagan Administration last year, the Joint Chiefs of Staff demurred. They argued that it was difficult to determine what strategic weapons the United States needed without knowing what limits that might apply to the development of Soviet anti-missiles defenses. The Chiefs also worried that Moscow would be able to exploit A.B.M. Treaty ambiguities while Congress would not allow the Pentagon to take similar actions. Confronting these and other objections, the Reagan Administration did not press for the kind of deferral option the Soviets are now offering.
But the Bush Administration has already signaled that it is attracted to such a compromise, calling it a ''positive development'' that requires further study and clarification.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SPACE WEAPONS (STAR WARS); US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR MILITARY WEAPONS (99%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); SPACE WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); CONSERVATISM (68%); NATIONAL PARKS (64%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R



549 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 19, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Pakistanis View U.S. as Friend, Suspiciously

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LAHORE, Pakistan, Sept. 21

 BODY:
A year after the death of President Mohammad Zia ul-Haq in a plane crash, a public-opinion poll asked Pakistanis if they thought he was the victim of a conspiracy and, if so, who were the likely conspirators.
''The Americans,'' said 31 percent of those who thought that General Zia's death in August 1988 was no accident.
Half of the Pakistanis polled said they believed that there had been a plot. Twenty-five percent said they thought Soviet or Afghan agents were behind a conspiracy. Seventeen percent thought political opponents of General Zia were responsible. Only 5 percent of the respondents blamed Pakistan's traditional enemy, India. 
A year earlier, in a poll taken just after General Zia was killed along with the United States Ambassador, Arnold L. Raphel, and most of Pakistan's top generals, 35 percent blamed Soviet or Afghan agents, 28 percent suspected General Zia's political opponents and 19 percent suspected India. The small number of people who thought that the United States might be involved was statistically insignificant.
A group of editors and writers gathered at the offices of the independent political magazine Viewpoint were unable to explain the turnaround in attitudes. They assumed that Pakistanis were friendlier to the United States over the last year because of Americans' support for the country's democratically elected Government.
The surprising poll result, on this and other questions about foreign friends and foes, reflects the complexity of Pakistani opinion where the United States is concerned. In the same poll, respondents ranked President Bush ahead of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain and Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet President, as the foreign leader whom they liked the most. ''Most Pakistanis think of the United States as a friend, but a friend that cannot be trusted,'' said Ijaz Gilani, the director of Gallup Pakistan, which conducted the poll.
Many Pakistanis, in interviews or informal conversations, say they are concerned about the influence the United States has over the country. In his last poll, Mr. Gilani found that 54 percent of Pakistanis questioned believed that the influence of the United States over Pakistani affairs had increased since the Pakistan People's Party of Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto came to power in an election last November. The belief was held by Pakistanis of all political parties.
Mr. Gilani, a political scientist with a doctorate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said this attitude helps explain the view that Americans had a hand in General Zia's death.
''Why would Pakistanis blame the United States?'' he asked. ''The reasoning is that since Benazir Bhutto is believed to have good relations with the United States, and has been a beneficiary of Zia's death, therefore the United States must have been involved.''
 
'Superficial' Relationship
Pakistani attitudes toward the United States are influenced by both political and cultural factors, including the country's natural link with the Islamic world, Mr. Gilani said. Pakistan, despite its return to the forms of Western-style democracy, is not automatically pro-Western. ''The relationship with the United States is a superficial type of relationship,'' Mr. Gilani said. ''It doesn't go very deep, and it is easy to switch from issue to issue.'' On general international policy or economic aid, Pakistanis are likely to be friendly to the United States, he said. But when issues of culture and religion are involved, the view changes.
A certain level of politically inspired anti-Americanism has also been part of Pakistani life since independence in 1947, foreigners and Pakistanis say. A few years ago, Ms. Bhutto put a stop to the burning of American flags at her party's rallies.
Some Pakistanis link new problems of drugs and the spread of sophisticated weapons to American involvement in the war in Afghanistan.
''The United States is running my country through remote control,'' a leftist political leader, Khan Abdul Wali Khan of the Awami National Party, said recently. ''It is responsible for all our problems.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PAKISTAN

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); CONSPIRACY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WRITERS (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (54%); 



550 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Coffee Impasse Imperils Colombia's Drug Fight

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Since an international coffee agreement was suspended two months ago, prices have plunged more than 40 percent on Colombia's leading legal export. Now many Colombians are saying that by allowing the collapse of the agreement, the United States has undercut its effort to encourage Colombia to fight production of its other major export, cocaine.
''We need the coffee income to fight effectively against cocaine,'' said an aide to President Virgilio Barco Vargas.
The International Coffee Organization, which includes the 74 consuming and exporting countries that were part of the agreement, has meetings scheduled for London this week and early next month. The accord had kept up prices by setting quotas on exports. 
Colombian officials said they expected to discuss coffee prices with American officials before the meetings. Their hope, one official said, is that the United States will consider the broader implications of coffee prices and not act strictly on commercial interests.
The National Federation of Coffee Growers, an independent organization that works closely with the Colombian Government, released the text of a letter from Washington on Monday in which President Bush said the United States was prepared to begin talks with Colombia aimed at restoring the agreement.
Although American officials have consistently said they were willing to resume talks with Colombia on the coffee issue, officials here took the Bush letter as an encouraging sign.
 
A Sympathetic View
In the letter, Mr. Bush struck a sympathetic and supportive tone, saying he recognized the importance of coffee to Colombia's economy and noting the Government's commitment to fighting narcotics trafficking.
Coffee is Colombia's main legal source of foreign currency. The coffee business employs three million Colombians and yields taxes that go to the country's armed forces and pay for roads, schools and hospitals in areas where the crop is grown.
Government officials say they worry that rising unemployment and general economic hardship would erode public support for President Barco's new war on drug traffickers. They say sustained coffee losses could also lead to cuts in military spending, which now accounts for 14.5 percent of the national budget.
 
Shift to Coca Crop
The Government and some growers say that as coffee production falls, pickers look for jobs harvesting and processing coca and that in the past some small farmers have shifted into coca growing.
Colombia earned $1.7 billion from coffee last year, compared with an estimated $1.5 billion from cocaine.
The Government does not officially recognize the cocaine income. But many Colombians argue that it is unfair for the United States to urge the country to try to eliminate the cocaine industry at a time when income from its most important legitimate crop is suffering.
As President Bush was preparing to announce his program to fight narcotics, Mr. Barco appealed to him for help in restoring the coffee price support agreement.
In an unusually blunt letter, Mr. Barco said: ''The agreement was not extended due to the lack of political willingness on the part of the United States.''
 
The U.S. Response
A senior American official here said the United States, which is the largest consumer of coffee, did ''not torpedo or destroy'' the price support agreement, which covered trasactions between 74 consuming and producing nations. However, he acknowledged that the United States had two demands that had not been met as the agreement foundered. Coffee experts say the American objections started a walkout that led to the suspension.
The United States wants greater flexibility in quotas so that it can secure a higher percentage of top-quality coffee grades and it wants an end to sales to countries in Eastern Europe, outside the agreement, at prices far below those accepted by members of the pact.
''I think the United States has legitimate concerns,'' a Government official said. ''We have to work it out.''
 
Coffee Price Down 60 Cents
Before the agreement was suspended in July, coffee was bringing about $1.45 a pound. Now the price is 85 cents, which Colombians say is less than it costs them to grow and ship coffee.
Colombia, which produces high-grade coffees, has offered a formula for increasing the quality of the mix that the United States receives. But Brazil, which is the world's largest coffee grower and produces mainly standard grades, has not endorsed Colombia's plan.
The producing countries have been willing to sell to Eastern Europe at below-market prices because they have surpluses that they cannot sell through the quota system. They are willing to take paper losses to increase their income of badly needed hard currency.
 
Roots of Price Supports
Colombian officials recall that the price support agreement came into effect in the mid-1960's as an outgrowth of President John F. Kennedy's Alliance for Progress, which sought to increase the resistance of Latin American countries to leftist insurgencies by improving their economies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (57%); INTERNATIONAL COFFEE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: COFFEE; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DRUG TRAFFIC; COCAINE COFFEE (94%); COFFEE MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COCAINE (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COFFEE FARMING (89%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); BUDGETS (76%); FARM LABOR (74%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); DRUG POLICY (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); ARMED FORCES (63%); CURRENCIES (63%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); TREASTER, JOSEPH B GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



551 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Bush Clean Air Plan Called Energy Policy in the Making

BYLINE: By ALLAN R. GOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
As members of Congress and interest groups look more closely at President Bush's clean air proposal, many are saying it is not just an anti-pollution plan but a national energy policy in the making.
The measure would dramatically reshape the nation's use of energy in the 1990's and into the next century, promoting greater reliance on natural gas and other clean-burning fuels at the expense of coal and gasoline. And it has broad implications for energy conservation, fuel imports and regional economic development.
The President's legislation, if passed, would have such an important effect on energy policy that it could undercut the national energy strategy the Administration is scheduled to complete in December 1990. Linda G. Stuntz, the Deputy Under Secretary of Energy for Policy, called the clean air measure ''the most profound energy legislation Congress considers this session'' and said it would have been better if the national energy plan had been in place first. But the President, she said, is determined ''to move now'' on environmental legislation. In his campaign, Mr. Bush promised to give the environment a high priority. 
The Bush bill ''is energy policy on a grand scale,'' said Representative Philip R. Sharp, an Indiana Democrat whose House Energy and Commerce energy subcommittee is reviewing the legislation's effects on energy. And William G. Rosenberg, an Environmental Protection Agency official, said energy and environment are ''two sides of the same coin,'' because the burning of oil and coal contributes so heavily to health hazards and environmental damage.
 
The Focus Has Changed
Though cleaner fuels like natural gas and low-sulfur coal may seem a self-evident solution to such problems, Mr. Rosenberg said, the nation has not always followed that path.
In 1978, for example, Congress limited the use of natural gas for generating electricity because of fears of a gas shortage. In 1977, to protect miners' jobs in regions that produced high-sulfur coal, the lawmakers passed an amendment to the Clean Air Act that took away the economic advantages of burning low-sulfur coal. That is one reason many utilities use high-sulfur coal, a major cause of air pollution and acid rain. Mr. Sharp noted that when the Clean Air Act was amended in 1977, the energy subcommittee did not even have hearings on it.
In Montreal this week, the 3,400 delegates to the World Energy Conference focused not on customary concerns like oil and gas reserves, but on environmental problems associated with those fuels: urban smog, acid rain and global warming.
The President's bill, now under consideration in the House Energy and Commerce environment subcommittee, addresses urban smog, acid rain and airborne toxic chemicals. Other legislators are sponsoring measures that would attack other problems and in some cases impose more stringent restrictions.
Proposals to strengthen existing acid rain and smog laws have been sidetracked for more than 10 years by conflicts among regions, industries and interest groups. Congress may try to smooth those differences, but the energy issues will still be crucial.
The Administration says its clean air proposals favor no fuel over any other. But many participants in the debate say natural gas would be a clear winner.
To fight acid rain, which causes widespread damage to forests, lakes and buildings and is suspected of endangering human health, utilities would have to cut sulfur dioxide emissions in half by 2000. About 20 million tons of sulfur dioxide are emitted annually into the skies; three-quarters of that comes from utilities, which would have to reduce their emissions by 10 million tons.
The utilities expect this cutback to force some plants to switch from coal to the natural gas. The American Gas Association estimates a modest sales increase, and gas producers would welcome it. Gas consumption declined 25 percent since 1970, although there have been modest gains in the last two years.
Low-sulfur coal is a another likely winner, since it produces fewer emissions than its high-sulfur cousin.
The cost of reducing emissions creates an incentive for utilities to press their customers to conserve because less demand means less burned coal and lower emissions.
The President's plan includes incentives to encourage utilities to use new anti-pollution devices so they can burn high-sulfur coal, which the nation has in abundance, without emitting large amounts of sulfur into the air.
The Administration says the United States can enhance its national security by developing ways to burn coal cleanly, since it would then rely less on imported fuels.
To reduce smog, the White House bill says that in 1997 manufacturers should be producing one million cars a year running on fuels like methanol that burn more cleanly than gasoline. The cars would be sold in the nine most polluted cities.
 
Nuclear Power Could Benefit
Methanol can be produced from natural gas, but much of what might be needed to supply a new fleet of methanol-powered cars would be imported. Another potential car fuel, ethanol, is made from grain and could open a new market for American farmers. But doubts have been raised by industry and others that the President's ambitious target can be reached.
Nuclear power, now much out of favor, could benefit from the President's bill. The legislation would raise the price of fuel by requiring more anti-pollution equipment and the development of more expensive alternative fuels, and this could make the price of nuclear power more competitive. Nuclear power plants do not emit sulfur dioxide, but they do produce radioactive waste.
Energy choices made in the legislation could affect regional development. A developing ethanol market could benefit the farms of the Middle West. Increased demand for natural gas could be a boon to the energy-rich Southwest, which has suffered hard times through much of the 1980's.
''Between the clean air bill and the deregulation of natural gas, this could be the first good news in energy states in eight years,'' said Representative Mike Synar, an Oklahoma Democrat.
Mr. Synar also said there would be winners and losers among states in industrial development. Businesses that use a great deal of energy would be tempted to move to states that have lower fuel costs, he said. By making some forms of energy more expensive, the clean air legislation could help determine which states they are.

GRAPHIC: Representative Philip R. Sharp, head of the House Energy and Power Subcommittee (Paul Conklin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CAP (LSE) (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CLEAN AIR POWER LTD (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; FUEL EFFICIENCY; COAL; GASOLINE; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL) AIR QUALITY (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); ACID RAIN (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SMOG (89%); NATURAL GAS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%); 

PERSON: GOLD, ALLAN R; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



552 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Using Social Security Checks for Greater Need

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH

 BODY:
People who do not need their Social Security payments to live on are being asked to give them to charity under a novel fund-raising strategy being introduced by United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York.
The philanthropy says it hopes to persuade people who have enough independent retirement income to deposit their monthly Social Security checks in a special endowment fund. The contributions would be allowed to accumulate interest untouched until 2020, when the income would be made available for the philanthropy's use. The U.J.A.-Federation and a network of affiliates help four million people in New York, Israel and 33 other countries. 
The concept was developed by Robert E. Linton, director of the Drexel Burnham Lambert Group, the New York-based investment firm, who volunteered to become the first contributor to the undertaking, the 21st Century Club.
 
How the Money Will Grow
''There's no gimmick for the rich involved, not a lot of paperwork, just a new way of raising money for people who need it in a Robin Hood kind of way,'' said Mr. Linton. He said his own monthly check of about $900 with compound interest would grow in 10 years to $184,000 and nearly $700,000 in 20 years.
To contribute, a donor signs a single piece of paper, directing payments to be made to the 21st Century Club. And the tax-deductible pledges can be revoked at any time.
The U.J.A.-Federation expects to recruit 200 founding members for the club in the next few months, said Stephen D. Solender, the organization's executive vice president. The fund will grow as the older contributors continue their payments. ''We hope and expect the leaders in our community will be healthy and philanthropic-minded for many, many years to come,'' Mr. Solender said. He estimated that in two decades the club's endowment would total at least $250 million.
 
Fund-Raising Not Keeping Pace
He said the organization's fund raising, which brought in $300 million last year, was not keeping pace with the need for services created by Federal budget cutbacks.
''We're launching the 21st Century Club after testing the idea on some of our supporters and receiving an enthusiastic response,'' said Mr. Solender. He said he expected other charitable organizations to copy the strategy.
Still, the strategy brought misgivings from some who fear that it would create a misconception: that Social Security benefits were going to many people who did not need them.
''I hope such a campaign would not give the mistaken impression that there are large numbers of Social Security beneficiaries who can afford to do without their benefits,'' said Robert M. Ball, Social Security Commissioner under Presidents Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon and now a consultant on social insurance. ''Such is not the case,''
 
Question by an Expert
Mr. Ball said Social Security was the major source of income for about 27.2 million retired people. Since 1983, under Federal law, half of the monthly Social Security payment has been taxable if the income exceeds $25,000 for an individual, or $32,000 for a couple.
The strategy of asking individuals to commit their Social Security payments could lead some donors to ''hide behind their pledge'' and be less responsive to other charitable appeals, said George A. Brakeley 3d, board chairman of the American Association of Fund-Raising Counsel.
Nonetheless, he found the concept intriguing. ''As a fund-raiser, the idea is so simple - you wonder it has not been tried before,'' he said. ''It seems there ought to be something wrong with it, but I can't think what. It's absolutely painless.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNITED JEWISH APPEAL - FEDERATION OF JEWISH PHILANTHROPIES OF NEW YORK (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JEWISH APPEAL, UNITED (UJA); JEWISH PHILANTHROPIES, FEDERATION OF

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) FUNDRAISING (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: TELTSCH, KATHLEEN JOHN F KENNEDY (66%); 



553 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 31, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Veterans Housing Loan Program Feels Pinch

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
A housing loan program for veterans is having financial problems because of high foreclosures and may require more aid than the Veterans Affairs Department has requested, according to a Government audit.
The audit by the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, covered the department's financial statements for 1987 and 1988 and made special note of the housing loan program.
''The primary cause of the loan guaranty fund's increased need for funding beyond that generated through normal operations was the weakened financial condition of certain sectors of the economy, particularly energy and agriculture,'' said the report, which was released this week. 
The loan guaranty fund guarantees a portion of private loans made to eligible veterans at special terms. About 13 million veterans have taken advantage of V.A. housing programs.
The fund largely paid its way through the 1970's, but its requirement for appropriations and money transfers ''has increased significantly since 1980,'' the report said. The fund required $900 million in transfers and appropriations in 1988, the G.A.O. said.
Congress and the V.A. are making efforts to address the issue, and the department says the problem is diminishing because of a decline in foreclosures.
The V.A. had 44,693 home loan foreclosures in the fiscal year from Oct. 1, 1986, to Sept. 30, 1987, and 48,963 the next year, the report said. Foreclosures totaled 38,721 in the first 10 months of the current fiscal year, said a V.A. spokeswoman, Donna St. John.
''We expect further improvements,'' she said.
The G.A.O. report says the department will need about $100 million in tranfers from the direct loan fund plus about $453 million in direct appropriations in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. The direct loan fund is a separate fund used for direct mortgage loans to severely disabled veterans.
The report noted possible developments that would change the department's estimates. One would be a higher foreclosure rate than the V.A.'s projection. Another would be the continued sale, ''without recourse,'' of loans on properties acquired by the department through defaults.
 
Loans Sold in Packages
When the V.A. finances foreclosed-property sales, it can package several loans for sale to an investor. The sale ''with recourse'' guarantees that the department will make good on any future default. ''Without recourse'' means the investor cannot go against the department. The without-recourse loans, though supposedly providing less liability, provide less cash at time of sale, the G.A.O. said.
A law will prevent the V.A. from making without-recourse sales after Sept. 30, but the department is proposing legislation to give it flexibility in determining which types of loans to sell.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO); VETERANS AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FORECLOSURES; MORTGAGES; VETERANS VETERANS (91%); AUDITS (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); VETERANS LOANS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 



554 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 67, Column 1; Society Desk

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Miss Noli Weds Brian Silverman

 BODY:
Suzanne Noli, a daughter of Mary Noli of Sayville, L.I., and the late Robert Noli, was married yesterday to Brian Silverman, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Al Silverman of White Plains. Judge Arthur Kellman of White Plains City Court officiated at the home of the bridegroom's parents. 
Mrs. Noli-Silverman, 29 years old, graduated from the School of Visual Arts. She is an associate art director of Harper & Row Publishers in New York. Her mother is an English teacher at the Copiague (L.I.) Junior High School, and her father was an economics teacher at Herricks High School in New Hyde Park, L.I.
Mr. Silverman, 33, graduated from the University of Connecticut. He is a senior writer for Sportstravel magazine in Secaucus, N.J. His mother, Rosa Silverman, is a ceramic sculptor. His father, formerly the chairman of the Book-of-the-Month Club, is a vice president and contributing editor at Viking Penguin in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB INC (69%); HARPER & ROW PUBLISHERS INC (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (56%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%); VISUAL ARTS (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); WRITERS (87%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (86%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); 

PERSON: NOLI, SUZANNE (SUZANNE NOLI-SILVERMAN); SILVERMAN, BRIAN



555 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1426 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION;
Decades of Change: A Look Back At China in Chaos

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD; Fox Butterfield, a former Beijing bureau chief for The New York Times, is the author of ''China: Alive in the Bitter Sea,'' published by Times Books.

 BODY:
It is Shanghai in 1927. Chiang Kaishek is conducting a bloody purge of his erstwhile allies, the Communists. In the old black-and-white film, boyish-looking suspects are interrogated by laughing policemen, then held in a cage by a guard brandishing an executioner's sword and finally dispatched by a shot to the back of the head.
The scene is part of a meticulously researched two-hour documentary, ''China in Revolution, 1911-1949,'' to be shown on PBS stations, including WNET in New York, on Wednesday evening at 9. The program, which grew out of the serendipitious discovery of a cache of rare footage about China in a private New Jersey movie archive, combines original film with interviews with Chinese soldiers, peasants and political leaders. These individual participants in the chaotic period between the overthrow of China's last imperial dynasty in 1911 and the founding of the People's Republic in 1949 tell extraordinary tales: stories of warlords and Japanese atrocities, accounts of small girls sold as child brides and recollections of Mao Zedong as a young revolutionary.
Huang Wei, a former Nationalist general, is shown on newsreel footage from 1949 being captured by Communist troops as they swept to final victory. Then, in a recent interview, Mr. Huang recounts how he was subjected to thought reform by the Communists for 27 years but still remains devoted to his one-time commander, Chiang Kai-shek. 
''This man, I think, was a great man, a hero,'' Mr. Huang says of Chiang. ''But his methods were the old ones of China, so he lost. In the end, I was buried alived for him.''
The broadcast of the program now, shortly after the tumultuous events of the student-led democracy movement in Beijing last spring, is fortuitous. When Sue Williams, the New York-based writer, director and co-producer of ''China in Revolution,'' began work on the project four years ago. ''Everyone told us we were crazy,'' she said recently. ''They said, 'Who cares about China between 1911 and 1949?' ''
''China in Revolution'' does not directly explain the events leading up to the protests in Tiananmen Square. But for the Chinese history is a living force, as real to them as baseball box scores are to American boys, and thus the film helps the American viewer to appreciate the Chinese mind set. It suggests why many older Chinese, who experienced the disastrous division of China before 1949, fear anarchy, and why so many younger Chinese still yearn for the elusive goals of democracy and modernization.
''China in Revolution'' bears many similarities in tone and style to two earlier highly acclaimed documentary series presented by WGBH in Boston: ''Vietnam: A Television History,'' and ''Eyes on the Prize: America's Civil Rights Years, 1954-1965.'' The resemblance is not coincidental. Judith Vecchione, the executive producer of ''China in Revolution,'' was a key participant in both earlier productions. Ms. Williams was a film researcher for ''Eyes on the Prize,'' and Kathryn Dietz, the co-director and co-producer of ''China in Revolution,'' worked on the Vietnam series. Will Lyman, who narrated the Vietnam programs, also provides the carefully subdued voice for ''China.''
Moreover, the producers also borrowed the concept of assembling a team of academic specialists for guidance from the earlier series. The experts, who included Jonathan Spence, a historian at Yale University, and Andrew Nathan, a political scientist at Columbia University, helped identify unlabeled film and offered advice on historical disputes. The result is a carefully balanced presentation that few scholars would quibble over.
But those familiar with China's history may find that the producers' very attempt at fairness sometimes works against them, regretfully draining some of the passion that the period evoked. To recall the heady atmosphere in the Communists' wartime headquarters in the caves of Yanan, the producers interview John Paton Davies, a brilliant State Department officer who spent time in Yanan. But there is not even a mention that Mr. Davies's favorable reporting on the Communists, compared to the corruption, inflation and incompetence that wracked the Nationalists, would lead to his dismissal by Washington and the ruin of his career in the anti-Communist witch hunt that followed the Communists' victory.
Nor is any reference made to the great debate, in the United States and Taiwan, to which the Nationalists fled in 1949, over ''who lost China.''
Ms. Vecchione insisted that to have mentioned Mr. Davies's fate or the debate over who lost China would have been ahistorical. ''It would have gone beyond our period and would have gotten into the argument in America,'' she said. ''We tried to stay with a Chinese point of view.''
The producers were also constrained by other problems, some beyond their control. For one thing, for many key episodes, there was simply no film available. The Communists did not have a cameraman with them on their epic Long March in 1934-35, in which they journeyed an average of 17 miles a day over mountains and wastelands, while fighting continuous battles and losing 95 percent of their men.
Another difficulty was that because of the time period, many important participants were dead or too ill to be interviewed. Madame Chiang Kai-shek, still living in Taipei, though in poor health, declined all requests. ''She sent us tea and cookies,'' said Ms. Dietz.
Deng Xiaoping, China's current leader and a ranking military commissar in the Red Army before 1949, similarly refused to be interviewed. Mao Zedong's widow, Jiang Qing, imprisoned since his death in 1976 as a leader of the discredited ''Gang of Four,'' not only was unavailable, but because of an order she gave years ago to cover up her early years as an actress in Shanghai, the producers were denied access to a valuable repository of Chinese archival film.
There was also the sheer complexity of modern Chinese history. ''We didn't want to overload viewers with strange names and dates,'' explained Ms. Williams. ''We could really turn the audience off.'' So, the producers had to winnow down the material.
''Many of these people are very colorful, if you are writing about them, but not on film,'' said Ms. Vecchione.
In several cases, the producers' omissions are unfortunate. They discovered some remarkable footage of the student demonstration in Beijing on May 4, 1919, which has assumed almost mystical significance to later generations of youthful Chinese. But while the film is briefly shown, there is no mention of what came to be called the May Fourth Movement. In part, it was the 70th anniversary of this long-ago march that inspired students this past spring in Beijing.
Much of the early film was found in the John E. Allen archive in Park Ridge, in northern New Jersey, the home of a private film collector. For years, Ms. Williams, whose grandfather had gone to China to make his fortune in business and whose mother was born and raised in China, had routinely asked archives if they had any footage on China when she was working on other projects.
Suddenly, she had a treasure. But because it was old, nitrate-based stock, much of it had deteriorated. ''You would open the cans and find this white, slimy mess,'' she said. It also was uncatalogued.
Sometimes participants were able to help identify film. Soong Hsi-lien, a former Nationalist general whom the producers interviewed, was sitting in the cutting room one day watching footage when he pointed at a figure standing on a hill with binoculars in his hand. ''That's me,'' he exclaimed. The producers made some other stunning finds. There is old newsreel film of emaciated conscripts, roped together by the Nationalists, being led off to fight the Japanese or the Communists. One and a half million of them died before ever reaching the front because of misappropriation of the funds intended to feed them.
Juxtaposed with this is newsreel footage of Chiang Kai-shek, whom the American commentator of the time calls ''the lean, keen Generalissimo, the undisputed leader and idol of 450 million Chinese.''
Ms. Williams is now planning a sequel to ''China in Revolution,'' carrying the story from 1949 up to Mao's death in 1976. It will be a very different story, something the close of the current film presages. When the producers were in Beijing, they happened to see a play on television in which Chiang, in an apocryphal conversation, quotes a Chinese proverb to Mao: ''It is easy to seize power, but difficult to maintain it.''

GRAPHIC: Chiang Kai-shek and his wife in 1937 (Central News Agency, Taiwan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CHINA IN REVOLUTION, 1911-1949 (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA, PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS INTERVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); FILM HISTORY (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (73%); MOVIE REVIEWS (73%); WRITERS (67%); BASEBALL (63%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX CHIANG KAI-SHEK (54%); 



556 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2271 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Is Back and Feeling Flush

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
OPEC's lean years are over. After nearly a decade of steep falls in revenues, wild price fluctuations, shrinking demand for oil worldwide and confrontation with the West, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries seems to be coming into its own once more.
Over the past three years, demand for oil has steadily grown and so have exports of crude by all 13 members of the cartel, bringing in desperately needed money and easing tensions within the group.
At the same time, a new generation of moderates has changed the texture of the organization, taking command from hard-liners who once led a frantic push for ever-higher prices in bruising battles with oil consumers.
Instead, the moderates, led by Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister, Hisham M. Nazer, have worked to keep the price of oil stable and relatively low. 
That has taken much of the incentive away from the United States and other Western countries to develop their own new sources of energy. In July, for the first time since 1977, imports accounted for more than half of the petroleum used by the United States, a reflection of growing demand and a falloff in domestic production at Alaska's Prudhoe Bay and other fields.
''In the past, we chose to ignore the facts of economics and neglected to pursue long-term gains,'' said Alirio Parra, managing director of European operations for Petroleos de Venezuela, Venezuela's state-owned oil company, and a senior member of his country's OPEC delegation for years.
''The new ministers are more realistic,'' Mr. Parra said. ''They have greater awareness of the dynamics of world economic changes and the global importance of economic relations.''
Added John Lichtblau, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York, ''OPEC's dark years are over, mostly because they have managed to live with lower prices.''
Of course, given OPEC's history of chronic discord, the cartel's era of good feelings could turn out to be short-lived.
Indeed, the usual squabbling over cheating on production quotas was high on the agenda when OPEC ministers began meeting yesterday in Geneva to map strategy.
Saudi Arabia has repeatedly warned it may match the excesses of production by others, saying it will not allow a diminution of its 25 percent share of total OPEC output.
And Iraq is widely expected to ask for a significant increase in its quota, as its expensive network of pipelines to the Red Sea becomes fully operational in the next few weeks. It is also clearing up its port on the Persian Gulf to receive ships and resume oil exports, a year after the war with Iran ended.
But it is a measure of OPEC's new equanimity that few industry experts think the squabbling will escalate to a danger point, at least not through the end of the year. It is widely expected that the ministers in Geneva will agree to keep things as they are or slightly increase the cartel's overall production ceiling from the present level of 19.5 million barrels a day.
''All the problems are not solved but the situation at OPEC has considerably improved,'' said Nordine Ait-Laoussine, an Algerian oil consultant based in Geneva who represented his country as an OPEC delegate for many years. ''Although I do not believe the Geneva meeting will lead to a resolution of the quota problems, I don't think it will be acrimonious.''
 
Crucial Lessons
 Veteran leaders of OPEC say the cartel has finally absorbed three crucial lessons from the trials and tribulations of the past decade, a period that was capped by the collapse of oil prices in 1986 to below $10 a barrel:
* The best way to keep the world dependent on oil is to make it affordable.
* It is essential to avoid price wars.
* To lessen competition from alternative fuels, consumers in the industrialized West must be assured that their oil needs will always be met.
''It is evident that to pursue and preserve our interests we must behave as commercial entities,'' said the 57-year-old Mr. Nazer, a man who in many ways personifies the new OPEC. ''Whether the market is up or down, we are in the middle of it as a commercial entity, which means we must be knowledgeable, responsive and efficient.''
When Mr. Nazer replaced Ahmed Zaki Yamani in 1986 as the oil minister of the world's leading oil-exporting country, the change signaled a turning point in OPEC's strategies. Mr. Nazer and other new leaders of OPEC - including Algeria's Sadek Boussena, Venezuela's Celestino Armas and Iran's Gholamreza Agazadeh - have consistently chosen compromise in situations where their predecessors would have opted for collision.
Last year, for example, Mr. Agazadeh abandoned a longstanding Iranian objection to allowing Iraq a production quota equal to Iran's. The Iranians have had a larger percentage of oil production since the cartel came into existence in 1960.
Teheran's decision was a painful one, coming on the heels of Iran's inability to win its eight-year war with Iraq. But without the compromise, OPEC would have been in serious trouble. Iraq and Iran now have identical quotas.
The new leaders are low-profile technocrats, slightly boring, some critics would say, and not fiery champions of third world struggle or flamboyant bons vivants, as Mr. Yamani was. They mirror OPEC's new priorities: to secure a reliable income for its members from oil and to repair the many bridges to consumer nations that OPEC burned in its decade-long quest to become the dominant arbiter of oil price and production.
 
The New Style
 Mr. Yamani's tenure paralleled OPEC's rise to power, with oil prices shooting up to $40 a barrel, and its subsequent fall into disunity. By contrast, Mr. Nazer and his colleagues have pursued a careful strategy of confidence-building, stability and moderation.
OPEC's new style includes fewer and shorter meetings, so as to diminish market speculation on the price of oil. In the Yamani era, the meetings went on for 15 or even 20 days. Now, they last a maximum of a few days. In addition, the ministers have agreed to say very little about their differences in public.
Clearly, the new attitude within OPEC has been greatly helped by the change in fortune that began about three years ago, when demand for oil started growing again after the bleak conditions that prevailed from 1979 to 1986.
Few within OPEC dared hope for a turnaround so consistent and so strong, with demand rising by 3 percent a year on a global basis ever since the price collapse of 1986.
Demand is much higher in some economies, particularly in the rapidly industrializing Asian Pacific region. In South Korea, for example, demand was up 15 percent in the first six months of this year over the same period in 1988. Japan has said that it would need 6.5 percent more oil in the next six months.
''The optimists in OPEC have been right and they may be right again,'' said Mr. Lichtblau, an OPEC watcher for a quarter of a century.
Compared with averages of $35 to $39 a barrel that predominated in the late 70's and early 80's, OPEC oil today is a bargain, hovering between $16 and $17.
Virtually all OPEC countries, with the possible exception of Libya, agree that prices should stay in that range since experience has shown that this is the ''affordable'' price, one that does not hamper the growth of the vibrant economies of the West and Asia, the largest consumers of oil today.
More important, it is a price that seems to discourage competitive threats directed at OPEC itself, a keystone of the cartel's strategy.
One of the elements that deeply hurt OPEC was a concerted campaign to find substitutes for OPEC oil following the Arab oil embargo in 1973. The campaign was inspired in part by Western governments that were concerned about the dependence of their economies on imported oil. But it was also motivated by the potential for profit, given the soaring oil prices at the time.
As prices were pushed further up by OPEC from 1973 to 1981, the West formed the International Energy Agency to design a counterstrategy. This included research to develop alternative energies, like solar energy and shale oils, and efforts to greatly increase the generation of nuclear power.
 
Spigots on the Frontier
 In addition, oil began to be found in large quantities in ''frontier'' areas like Alaska and the North Sea. Today's production of 2 million barrels a day in Alaska, 3.5 million barrels in the North Sea and 3 million in Mexico, not to mention the oil coming out of Brazil, India, Yemen and other places, did not exist in 1973.
But because of OPEC's deliberate policy now to keep prices relatively low, these new oil-producing areas already have begun to decline. Oil found in the North Sea is expensive to produce. The same is true of Alaskan oil. In general it is more expensive to produce oil in the United States and Europe than to buy the oil at OPEC's current price.
As a result, in the past three years oil production has begun to decline dramatically in the United States while demand for OPEC oil has rebounded.
United States production has dropped by almost a million barrels a day over the past 12 months alone, to 7.5 million barrels, according to the Paris-based International Energy Agency. Meanwhile, OPEC production has gone from 16 million barrels a day in 1985 to close to 22.5 million barrels today, 3 million over the official quota.
As the American economy continues to grow, the difference between production and consumption - the United States now uses about 18 million barrels a day - is made up by drawing down stockpiles and by steadily increasing imports.
''One can say that the United States is responsible in a sense for the OPEC recovery,'' said Mehdi Verzi, an oil analyst with Kleinwort Benson Securities, a London brokerage house.
OPEC's strategy is based on what a number of energy experts consider to be an understanding, forged unofficially, with major consumers.
''There is a tacit consensus, a sort of deal, whereby OPEC countries agree to guarantee a price for oil that does not put at risk the economic growth of major consumers,'' said Pierre Terzian, editor of the Paris-based Petrostrategies. ''In return, consuming countries no longer continue their massive efforts to find energy substitutes for oil.''
At any rate, the natural, and well-publicized, consequence of the fall in oil prices has been the widespread abandonment by most industrialized countries in the past five years of research to find substitutes.
There also has been a noticeable softening in the relationship between OPEC and the major industrialized countries. The International Energy Agency has reverted to a low profile after aggressively leading the effort to find oil substitutes.
And in the United States, the Reagan Administration, which sometimes acted as if it were on the warpath with OPEC, has been replaced by the Bush Administration, which has been trying to forge better ties with a number of OPEC nations.
 
Trouble on the Horizon?
 If there is a limit to how well things can go for OPEC, however, it is framed by the quota problem.
Under present OPEC rules, the cartel parcels out production according to an old formula of percentages. But many OPEC members, including Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates and Iraq, say they are entitled to larger quotas. They argue that their production capacity and huge reserves - contrasted with limited reserves of other members like Algeria and Indonesia - justify a change in the formula.
The tension surrounding this issue has been considerably eased by the growth in demand for OPEC oil, which has allowed all members to increase output. But what is still lacking is an official agreement that sets new quotas that all 13 members can live with.
For months now, two maverick members, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, have been producing almost double their allotted quota of one million barrels each. Other members, like Nigeria and Saudi Arabia, are exceeding their quotas slightly.
 
The Saudi Factor
 The most serious challenge to OPEC's new peace would occur if Saudi Arabia decided to match the excesses of the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait.
In a recent interview with the Oil Daily, a trade journal, Mr. Nazer pointedly noted that his country has an ''export capacity'' of 14 million barrels a day while its quota stands at 5.5 million barrels. He said Saudi Arabia was working toward increasing its sustained daily production capacity from about 8 million barrels to 10 million. The message, one Arab oil official said, is clear: ''Don't push us around.''
Iraq has been making the same point, saying that it has an export capacity approaching five million barrels a day with a quota that is under three million.
''I don't think they have any interest in blowing things up,'' said Mr. Ait-Laoussine, the Algerian consultant. ''But in OPEC, in the end, all depends on what the Saudi giant finally decides to do.''
 
No Sudden Moves
 Saudi Arabia, however, has always been careful not to spring surprises. Its style has been to warn, and then warn again and then, if it must act, to do so slowly, increasing production in little doses to give adversaries plenty of time to change their minds.
Saudi officials say that, despite their exasperation with cheating, they are not ready to declare a production war inside OPEC.
In fact, Mr. Nazer is not attending the Geneva meeting. Instead, he is recuperating in Los Angeles from a recent operation. Many OPEC officials say the operation came at an opportune time, providing Mr. Nazer with a reason to miss the meeting and avoid a confrontation.

GRAPHIC: Hisham Nazer, Saudi Arabia's Oil Minister and leader of OPEC's moderates (NYT/Elaine Sciolino); graph of oil prices, 1978-1989*; graph of U.S. oil imports, from OPEC and total, 1978-1989* (*Six-month average); (Source: U.S Dept. of Energy) (pg. 1); Gholamreza Agazadeh, Iran's Oil Minister (AP); graph of OPEC oil production, 1960-1988 (Source: U.S Dept. of Energy) (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%); 

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GULF STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); RED SEA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (54%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) (OPEC)

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CARTELS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); HISTORY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M



557 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1913 words

HEADLINE: Some Lessons From Avis for UAL Buyout

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
At 2 P.M. on the first Thursday of every month, thousands of employees at Avis Inc., the nation's No. 2 rental company, walk off their jobs. With their company's blessing they gather for employee-management sessions that are at the heart of Avis's two-year-old experiment with employee ownership. From these meetings, held across the country, have come such innovations as multilingual information cards for international customers at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York and a way to deter car theft in Baltimore.
These ideas have helped to cut costs and increase profits. But they also provide a more important function: letting employees know that as Avis makes money and pays down debt the value of their shares in the company increases. In the two years since Avis's employee stock ownership plan, or ESOP, began - it's anniversary is tomorrow - the value of the workers' shares has increased from $5.22 a share to $15.47.
Now a similar ESOP is being proposed at the UAL Corporation, parent of United Airlines. And what Avis has learned - often through trial and error - can provide a textbook for the planners at United. 
''UAL can take a leaf from our book,'' said Joseph V. Vittoria, Avis's chairman and chief executive. ''Hopefully, they will be better prepared. When we did our deal, we had no idea how it would work and whether it would be successful.''
By most measures, Avis's success now seems assured and the company is considered an example of what can happen when workers become owners. For instance, when measured against its archrival, the Hertz Corporation, which is the No. 1 car rental company, Avis has reported higher profit margins - 8.5 percent in 1988 compared with Hertz's 5.7 percent - and lower relative operating costs. Customer complaints at Avis have fallen by 35 percent; the rental fleet has been modernized, and Avis has managed to accelerate payment on some $50 million of the $1.75 billion it borrowed to become the biggest American company to be majority-owned by its employees.
 
How UAL Compares
 The UAL buyout, if it goes through as planned, would top Avis's in size. UAL proposes a $6.75 billion buyout to make the company 75 percent owned by its 68,000 employees. Avis is 100 percent owned by its 12,500 employees. The UAL deal also calls for three union representatives to be put on its board, where Avis has none, and UAL employees would have the final say in corporate policy.
But ESOP experts and Avis employees, from the executive suite to the front counter, warn that UAL's success may be judged not by whether employees sit on the board or set major policy, but the extent to which all employees are drawn into decisions, especially at lower levels.
''Our research shows that the only factor associated with making an ESOP successful in terms of corporate performance is the degree to which employees participate in decisions affecting their jobs,'' said Corey M. Rosen, executive director of the National Center for Employee Ownership, an Oakland-based nonprofit group, ''Avis has set up an extensive system of employee participation throughout the organization and that's why they are successful. The lesson for United is straightforward. If they want to succeed, they will need to do the same thing.''
However, this could be more difficult at UAL since only one of United's three main unions, the pilots, is participating in the buyout. The flight attendants may join, but the machinists are opposed to it. This raises questions as to whether all employee groups can pull together as a team and it limits the amount of tax benefits UAL can enjoy, since ESOP-related tax breaks are determined by the company's salary costs. The greater the number of employees in the ESOP, the larger the tax breaks.
''It's critical that everyone get into it,'' said Mr. Vittoria, ''The biggest problem at UAL is if the machinists don't join. That will create antagonisms. You're working with one group that has certain goals and making sacrifices and another that almost wishes it will fail.'' Added Robert Salerno, Avis's chief of operations: ''If you don't give employees a say in their own jobs, then you are doomed to fail. You have to believe in ESOP's and not just let it be a financial transaction.''
The Thursday meetings at Avis, of employee participation groups, are the company's way of giving employees a say. ''The EPG's haven't given us any home runs,'' said Mr. Salerno. ''But they have given us a lot of singles.'' Joe Wiggins, who has worked at JFK airport as a service agent for 20 years cleaning cars, echoes the idea: ''I have something to contribute to the company and now management listens.''
But Avis executives admit that their employee program can help only add so much to the bottom line. Equally important are the tax breaks that reduce the borrowing costs for leveraged ESOP's, like Avis, and general business conditions. For instance, if the economy slows, if air traffic falls, if corporations cut back on travel expenses or if other car rental companies initiate drastic price wars, Avis will suffer.
And that is the situation facing Avis . After watching profits climb since the ESOP started, business has now begun to taper off. Avis has steadily increased its operating profits - from $16 million in 1987, to $79 million in 1988, the first full year of the ESOP, to $94 million last year. But in the first three months this year, operating profit margins fell to 3.6 percent - operating profits were $10 million and revenues were $277 million. The only good news was that Hertz had an operating loss over the same three- month period of $3.2 million on revenues of $475 million.
''We've got a sluggish economy, some price cutting in our industry and fewer travelers because of higher air fares,'' said Mr. Vittoria. ''We've got to dance all around that. We've cut costs to match the slowdown in revenues.''
Charles H. Finnie, an analyst with Alex. Brown & Sons in Baltimore is pleased. ''Joe Vittoria has grabbed that company by its lapels and shaken it up for the better,'' he said. ''The ESOP has been a true success. My only concern is that it leveraged Avis's balance sheet. But I think Vittoria's team is capable of generating cash flow to reduce leverage.''
ESOP's have become popular over the last decade as Congress enacted many tax breaks to encourage employee ownership. In most cases, employees own a small percentage of the company's stock, and many of these ESOP's were imposed by management as a takeover defense. But by the end of last year, some 1,500 companies with 1.5 million employees were majority-owned by ESOP's.
The track record on such deals is mixed. In the three years since its ESOP, the Weirton Steel Corporation, which became 100 percent employee owned in 1984, was the only major steel maker to turn a profit. And Weirton's extensive employee involvement programs have increased productivity and have become a magnet for academic studies. But at Dan River, a Virginia textile maker that became a 100 percent ESOP in 1983, old employee-management antagonisms remained and the company has struggled.
UAL is considered more like Avis than Weirton or Dan River. Both are in highly competitive service businesses where there is a high degree of customer contact and the attitude of an employee can draw an immediate reaction from the customer.
Both Avis and UAL have operations strewn over thousands of locations, making it difficult to impose central management control, and both have similar financial structures. They have large fixed capital investments in aircraft or cars, which means that a slight reduction in costs or an increase in revenues goes straight to the bottom line. Both have large labor costs that lead to large ESOP-related tax breaks. And both were in fairly solid financial shape when the ESOP's were proposed, so it was not viewed as a last-ditch maneuver to save the company.
 
No Magic Potion
 ''I don't think employee ownership is a magic potion to spread over bad businesses and turn them into gold,'' said Eugene J. Keilin, a general partner at Lazard Freres & Company, who advised both Weirton and UAL workers. ''But it is a tool that can produce certain results. At UAL, it can help produce lower costs and signficant tax benefits to pay down the debt.''
In Mr. Keilin's opinion, however, financial benefits rather than worker involvement are the key to an ESOP's success. These include the tax breaks given the lender in an ESOP deal, which are passed on in the form of lower borrowing costs, and tax laws that allow ESOP's to deduct not only the interest payments on borrowings, but the repayment of principal as well. ''With a leveraged ESOP, there is the risk of a lot of debt,'' said Mr. Keilin. ''But an ESOP is less risky than someone else's LBO'' because of these benefits.
Besides, Mr. Keilin points out, ESOP's are true long-term investments. Unlike traditional LBO's, where the aim is to pay down debt, pull out dividends and clean up the company for sale, the worker-owners at an ESOP are concerned about maximizing the value of their shares, which are part of their pension.
''One of the psychological barriers to ESOP's is that they seem to have this vaguely leftist ideology when, indeed, they are profoundly capitalist,'' said Mr. Keilin.
It was hardly ideology that concerned Avis executives when they agreed to buy the company from the Wesray Capital Corporation, its fifth corporate owner in less then four years. Mr. Vittoria wanted stability and security for the company and Wesray was happy to get cash for its investment. At first, employee motivation took a back seat to financial concerns in structuring the deal. ''We were obviously engrossed in the financing of it and the people aspect was secondary,'' said Mr. Vittoria.
About that time, Mr. Salerno read an article by Mr. Rosen of the National Center for Employee Ownership. The two met and the idea of the employee participation group emerged. At first, it took a sales pitch to get employees interested, both in the ESOP itself and the employee participation groups. And Mr. Salerno said that even now there are many employees who are uninterested and do not express any interest in participating in the groups.
At the beginning, many of the meetings were centered around what Mr. Salerno calls ''toilet paper'' issues, which is how he refers to the general housekeeping questions facing each Avis work station. Once those were settled, sessions turned to questions of productivity - replacing expensive paper towels with cloth towels, putting clearer signs on the airport buses, finding ways to get the buses that pick up customers to patrol the airports more frequently.
None of these ideas saved the corporation great sums of money, but they led to small savings and a sense by employees of being heard by management. Traditional management-worker issues, like discipline, are handled in the same manner as before the ESOP.
At the Avis operation at Kennedy airport, station manager Steve Biondo points to many changes related to the ESOP. For instance, employees are now more careful about turning off lights and come up with new car cleaning procedures. But his talk soon turns to a favorite topic: his Avis stock. ''It gives me a piece of the pie,'' he said. ''And that feels great. Every day, I check my calculator and see how much stock I have. Next to my house, Avis is the biggest investment I've got.''

GRAPHIC: Photos of Joseph V. Vittoria, Avis chairman and chief executive (NYT/Barton Silverman); Joe Wiggins servicing an Avis rental car at Kennedy International Airport (NYT/Vic DeLucia); Tere Brocco and Carmen Gregory, rental agents (NYT/Vic DeLucia); chart of the majority-owned ESOP companies with the greatest number of employess and the year the ESOP began (Source: National Center for Employee Ownership)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HTZ (NYSE) (85%); UAL (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (91%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (91%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (85%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (85%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (68%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (68%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: AVIS INC (91%); HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (85%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (68%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AVIS INC; UAL INC

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (ESOP); LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (93%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); MULTILINGUALISM (71%); AIRLINES (70%); VEHICLE THEFT (70%); AIRPORTS (70%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE JOHN F KENNEDY (57%); JOHN F KENNEDY (57%); 



558 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2088 words

HEADLINE: Four Health Care Vigilantes

BYLINE: By GLENN KRAMON

 BODY:
Medical costs continue to run wild despite widespread efforts by the nation's employers to contain them. The cost of the typical company medical plan is projected to rise by 20 to 25 percent this year, according to the latest surveys, after increasing by 15 to 20 percent last year.
But a few large companies have successfully restrained medical inflation. Employers like the Southern California Edison Company, Caterpillar Inc. and the Adolph Coors Company are recording increases of less than 10 percent a year, and in some cases, of closer to the 5 percent of the consumer price index.
Rather than taking isolated stabs at cutting their costs, these companies have developed more comprehensive strategies to fight inflation on several fronts. The approaches could serve as models for other employers and dramatically change how health services are delivered, benefits specialists say. 
To reduce the cost and use of medical services, they are negotiating lower prices from certain doctors and hospitals in return for a promise to nudge employees in their direction. They are reviewing the utilization of services in an attempt to eliminate unnecessary tests, operations and days in the hospital. Like most employers, some have also shifted more of the burden to employees by increasing annual deductibles, coinsurance payments and payroll contributions to the health plans.
These possible trend setters have also taken more radical measures. Caterpillar has taken on more than 100 doctors in court to challenge the price of their services and in many cases, has won. The John Breuner Company, another aggressive cost cutter, refuses to pay the medical bills of employees who do not join a health maintenance organization. And a few employers have taken certain health insurance services like the processing of claims into their own hands. Southern California Edison even runs its own pharmacy.
Health care, it seems, is coming to be viewed as a product to be purchased prudently, just like the steel in Caterpillar's heavy equipment. ''The idea is to manage health care like a business and do your best to get your employees to understand the problem,'' said David E. Scherb, director of benefits at Pepsico Inc., whose medical costs will rise by only about 8 percent this year. ''We can't keep shifting costs to employees.''
Indeed, employees do not always welcome the added burden. Proposals to make workers bear more of their medical costs were at the root of the strikes by unionized workers that began in early August at two of the regional Bell companies, Nynex and Bell Atlantic, and continued at Nynex last week.
What is more, the medical community fears that it and its patients will bear the brunt of the higher costs. They further worry that rulings against doctors in billing disputes in court could set a precedent for insurers to dictate medical fees and influence care.
Still others complain that other people could be forced to absorb the costs. ''After companies negotiate discounts, the medical community simply shifts costs to others - to the small company or individuals that can't negotiate a discount,'' said Francis M. Miller, president of the Colorado Business Coalition for Health, a Denver-based employers group.
And even the most aggressive companies may not be able to sustain single-digit cost increases. The reason: According to a survey by Noble Lowndes, a benefits consulting firm in East Orange, N.J., costs should continue to climb because of increases in the use of high-technology treatments like organ transplants and CAT scans rise and in the costs of catastrophic cases like AIDS and cancer, substance-abuse treatment and psychiatric care, and of subsidizing the uninsured and those covered by Medicare and Medicaid.
Still, the following companies might be in a better position than most.
 
Southern California Edison
 While increasing at an average annual rate of 22 percent through much of the 1980's, the medical costs of the nation's second-largest utility should rise by only 5 to 10 percent this year and by 14 percent annually over the next five. The projected savings over that time: $105 million on a total medical bill of $615 million. Over the next 20 years, the company hopes to save $5.6 billion, or 70 percent of its costs had it done nothing.
At the beginning of this year, Edison overhauled its health plan for the first time in 37 years. The Rosemead, Calif.-based company organized a large network of hospitals that agree to offer discounted prices on rooms and a panel of doctors who adhere to a fee schedule for many procedures.
Edison also stopped paying the entire medical bills of its employees and of most of its future retirees. It now pays 90 percent of the bill for those who use the network and 70 percent for those who do not. But employees who go outside the network often pay more than 30 percent of their bills. The company pays 70 percent of the amount accepted by the doctors on its panel.
And many employees are now required to contribute up to $100 a month toward their medical plans. Under the ''flexible'' arrangement, employees can lower their monthly charge and pay a higher deductible. And workers who agree to be tested for smoking, weight, cholesterol, blood pressure and blood sugar - and to participate in remedial programs if needed - can reduce their monthly contributions by a total of $10. As a result, some employees pay no monthly charge and a few even receive a small credit.
Finally, the company reduced by about 35 percent the amount it pays its health maintenance organizations. The company's previous payments had been based on the medical costs of workers in its non-H.M.O. plans, whose expenses were much higher than those of H.M.O. enrollees.
Now, it pays H.M.O.'s based on what it estimates care actually costs. Employees choosing H.M.O.'s that charge more than what the company will pay must make up the difference. The company argues that it can fairly assess the cost of care because, unlike most companies, it is self-insured, processes its own claims and even reviews claims for potential excesses itself rather than hiring an outside utilization review firm.
Edison even hires its own doctors and buys its own pharmaceuticals. Its 10 clinics and first-aid stations, managed by salaried physicians on its staff, handle 15 percent of the primary-care visits of the company's 57,000 employees, retirees and dependents. The doctors provide care at a lower cost, enabling the company and employees to save about 20 cents on the dollar, said Dr. Jacque J. Sokolov, vice president and medical director at the company. By buying drugs at below wholesale prices, Edison's pharmacy, which fills 85 percent of all prescriptions, saves about 40 cents on the dollar.
But some Edison employees are not pleased with the changes. Employees who once paid almost nothing for health care now shell out up to $3,000 annually. Edison imposed the provisions unilaterally after reaching an impasse in bargaining with its unionized workers, who objected to the plan.
Rae Sanborn, a business manager of a unit of Edison's largest union, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, said the changes have caused ''a big drop in morale and productivity.'' And by reducing payments to H.M.O.'s to unrealistically low levels, he added, the company has forced those providers to cut back on their services.
Some argue that the company's role in health care is a conflict of interest. ''You have the same people who are paying the bill evaluating the treatment received,'' said Willie Stewart, another I.B.E.W. official.
 
Caterpillar Inc.
 When it comes to health care, this heavy-equipment manufacturer moves faster than its name implies. The Peoria, Ill.-based company has managed to hold its increases to an average of well below 10 percent a year for five years, after they rose by 16 to 25 percent a year in the late 1970's and early 1980's. Yet Caterpillar's almost 200,000 employees, dependents and retirees still pay virtually nothing for their medical care other than for the visits to the doctor's office.
Caterpillar saves in a number of ways. It contracts with the hospitals used by its employees for concessions on fees and plans to require employees who go to other hospitals to pay for part of the bill.
It also negotiates with many doctors on certain fees. It pays only the price on a bill that it considers fair. Caterpillar often represents patients who have been sued by doctors for the remainder of their bills in court and pays those physicians the balance if it loses cases. It has won most of its 100 battles so far, said Dr. Robert D. Hertenstein, medical director for group insurance at Caterpillar.
Caterpillar saves on drugs by contracting with pharmacies and paying them the wholesale price of drugs plus a dispensing fee. When the prescribing physician does not specify a proprietary drug, Caterpillar encourages the pharmacies to sell generic drugs by sharing the price difference with them. Like Edison, Caterpillar also administers claims itself. ''That gives us a savings of probably 2 to 3 percent just in administrative costs,'' Dr. Hertenstein said.
''Over all, I would say the company has done a very good job,'' said Tony Green, the president of the United Automobile Workers' Peoria unit, Caterpillar's biggest union local.
 
The John Breuner Company
 Most employers give their workers the choice of a health maintenance organization. But since 1987, Breuner has required its nearly 1,200 employees, retirees and their dependents to sign up with an H.M.O. The San Ramon, Calif., furniture-store chain, which is owned by Batus Inc., has since cut its medical-cost inflation rate significantly. Making the change to an H.M.O.-only health plan was easier for Breuner than it might be for others. Most of its employees are in California, where H.M.O.'s are widespread.
The company has tried to give every employee a choice of at least two H.M.O.'s and an incentive to join: Employees pay only a small coinsurance payment and a monthly payroll deduction of $25 to $137. Dental and vision coverage was also improved.
Even so, to continue to receive coverage, some employees had to give up doctors they had used for decades. And the H.M.O. doctors were not always as convenient.
Still, seven employees interviewed at three stores in the San Francisco area were generally pleased. But one employee worried that she would suffer financially because H.M.O.'s do not always cover certain procedures paid for by other insurers, like in-vitro fertilization.
 
Adolph Coors Company
 The Adolph Coors Company provides troubling evidence that even a company that works hard to control medical costs can be humbled by factors beyond its control.
In recent years the Golden, Colo.-based brewer has managed to limit its per-capita increases in health costs to about 5 percent a year. But this year, the figure will probably climb to about 15 percent. A few organ-transplant cases that will total almost $2 million are the main culprits.And Coors managers hope the this year's increase is only a blip.
Like Caterpillar, the company, which covers about 32,000 people, has tried to save money by administering its own claims. Coors also contracts with hospitals, doctors and dentists for reduced rates.It also handles its own review of medical and mental-health cases. As a result, expenses for mental health and substance abuse fell 5 percent last year, after rising 20 percent a year in the two years before it began to manage the cases, said Mark W. Wright, director of health services. But its cost-cutting program also emphasizes good health. For eight years, it has run a wellness center, which now has a gym and indoor track and offers programs on smoking, alcohol abuse, nutrition and weight loss. A separate medical center handles all of the company's workers' compensation cases - helping rehabilitate employees with such ailments as back injuries.
To show employees it means business, Coors pays 90 percent of the health costs of employees and their spouses who undergo health appraisals and are judged healthy or strive to improve their health if they are not. But it pays only 85 percent of the claims of employees who do not cooperate or try to improve their health if they are higher-risk.
David Laughton, a representative of the Teamsters Union, which failed in an attempt to organize Coors workers last year, said he heard no complaints about the plan.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Dr. Jacque Sokolov, with a patient, Michael Karlin, at a clinic run by Southern California Edison .(NYT/Craig Molenhouse) pg. 1); a company clinic of Southern California Edison (NYT/Craig Molenhouse); graphs of Southern California Edison's medical program costs, savings and the projected costs in no changes had been made, for 1988-1992; 1988-1997; 1988-2007; pie chart of where cost-savings come from (Source: Southern Californai Edison) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (84%); CATR (PAR) (84%); CAT (SWX) (84%); CAT (NYSE) (84%); TAP (NYSE) (72%); PEP (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (84%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (83%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (72%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (72%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (72%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (72%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (63%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (84%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (83%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (72%); PEPSICO INC (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO; CATERPILLAR INC

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CORPORATIONS; LABOR; FINANCES HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HOSPITALS (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (71%); INSURANCE (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: KRAMON, GLENN



559 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 6, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Airline Debt, Foreign Investors Worry Washington

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Although details of the meeting were not disclosed, when Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner sat down to breakfast on Friday with Alfred Checchi, the leader of the investment group that is buying Northwest Airlines, it is likely Mr. Skinner had some strong things to say. The meeting was described as a private talk about Northwest's fitness to operate under new management, but the transportation secretary doubtlessly expressed concern about recent trends in the airline industry that are worrying many Government officials, both in the Administration and Congress.
Mr. Skinner has been voicing his concerns with increasing urgency in recent weeks. He is worried that an increasingly indebted airline industry could leverage itself into financial ruin. And he is upset that the deal-making in the industry is putting a growing share of control over American aviation in the hands of foreign stockholders.
Officials at the Transportation Department would not say what conditions Mr. Skinner presented to Mr. Checchi as necessary to meet before it will agree to approve the company's operating licenses, which are subject to revocation by the department. Mr. Skinner himself said he only wanted to ''sit down with the principals and give them the thought processes'' behind his review. 
And few people expect the Bush Administration to block the free market's workings in the Northwest deal. But Mr. Skinner's actions are being watched closely - not only because the $3.65 billion acquisition of Northwest is so lucrative, but because it is viewed as a precedent in an industry that is changing with dizzying speed.
 
More Takeovers Expected
 The takeover of Northwest has been followed swiftly by the proposed purchase of United Airlines by its employees and managers; and both deals have involved huge borrowing and big roles for foreign airlines.
''I would be very surprised if these two transactions are the last ones,'' Mr. Skinner said in an interview last week - expressing the preponderant view on Wall Street, in Washington and among airline executives.
Airlines are supremely attractive candidates for financial restructuring in an era of debt financing. Their principal assets, big jet airplanes, can be sold to raise cash and then leased back. If used as collateral for loans, the airplanes have the added advantage of gaining in value rather than depreciating as they get older because demand for airplanes is so strong. The airlines have other hidden assets as well, like their gates, landing rights and international routes.
But leveraged buyouts raise the possibility of a collapse down the road, even though the airlines are booming at the moment.
''Their stability is improving, and has been since the early 1980's,'' said the airline bond analyst Philip A. Baggaley of the Standard & Poor's Corporation. ''But they are still cyclical companies, and we have not seen how well they will perform in the next recession. If you do have a spread of leveraged buyouts to most of the strong airlines, the result will be greater bankruptcy risk, greater consolidation in the industry, and slower progress in modernizing their fleets of planes.''
Adding to the Government's worries is the continuing concentration of the industry, in which 90 percent of the traffic now moves on eight carriers. And of the big airlines, only at American has the percentage of capitalization accounted for by debt declined.
''The significant debt involved in a leveraged buyout can increase the risk that an airline will not be able to meet its financial obligations,'' said Mr. Skinner. ''Given the small number of major U.S. air carriers, the failure of any of these carriers could reduce the level of competition in the industry.''
In both the House of Representatives and the Senate there were hearings last week into airline competition and concentration. Like the Transportation Department, lawmakers are looking not just at takeovers, but at a broad range of competitive issues, such as access to overcrowded airports, barriers to newly established airlines and the rules governing computerized reservation and ticketing services owned by airlines.
 
Strong Skinner Involvement
 And committees in both houses will mark up bills this fall that might alter the role of the Transportation Department in reviewing airline buyouts.
Mr. Skinner's breakfast on Friday was part of the negotiations between the Transportation Department and Northwest's new owners over the conditions the Transportation Department would insist upon before permitting the takeover of NWA, Northwest's parent corporation.
Airline lobbyists say they are surprised - and a little worried - by Mr. Skinner's involvement in the financial maneuverings of the industry. ''There is a reregulatory, interventionist tendency at work. It is scaring people around town,'' said one lobbyist.
But Mr. Skinner says he has no objection to the heavy borrowing, as long as the airlines retain enough cash flow for investments in safety modifications of older aircraft, quieter engines to meet environmental standards and advanced technologies for bomb detection, among the other costs of doing business.
''I start from the very strong presumption that the marketplace knows more about the proper capitalization of business than do government regulators,'' Mr. Skinner said in a speech last week before the International Aviation Club. ''Yet the issues posed by very significant increases in debt and proposed significant foreign investment in the U.S. airline industry are important enough to warrant careful scrutiny.'' But language has been blunt in Congress. ''The Wall Street vultures can take their junk bonds and go elsewhere,'' said Senator Wendell Ford, chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Aviation, when he introduced his bill on airline takeovers.
 
The Secretary's Veto Power
 Mr. Ford's bill, and a companion measure being drafted in the House, would require the Transportation Secretary to approve any airline acquisition in which more than 25 percent of the voting power changes hands. But Mr. Skinner has made plain that he will exercise effective veto power over takeovers by reconsidering the ''fitness certificate'' of any airline that is involved in a buyout.
The question is whether the Government's reviews and Mr. Skinner's public pronouncements - which are really nothing other than the tried-and-true tactic known in Washington as jawboning - are as potent as the financial forces at work on the industry. The concern is that there still are plenty of potential takeover candidates among the airlines and that the rush toward more takeovers and mergers has just begun.
At the top of the list, now that United and Northwest have been snapped up, are the healthiest airlines left: American, Delta and USAir. American's shares jumped 13 percent in value on a single day last month on takeover rumors. Delta has engineered a takeover defense based on an employee stock ownership plan.
An investor group headed by the Wall Street money manager Michael Steinhardt told the Securities and Exchange Commission earlier this month that it increased to more than 8 percent the 6 percent stake it took last July in USAir, the nation's seventh-largest airline. Airlines that are less well off also are seeking investors. Texas Air's chairman, Frank Lorenzo, has said the company is considering selling an interest in Continental. Texas Air also owns the bankrupt Eastern Airlines, much of which is being sold off under the bankruptcy procedures. And Texas Air was reported to be discussing sale of part of its computer reservations system to the Electronic Data Systems Corporation, a unit of the General Motors Corporation.
Thomas G. Plaskett, Pan American World Airway's chairman, has been talking for months about the prospect of a merger involving his airline. The increasing trend toward links between international airlines is also making many officials in Washington nervous. Among the financial links are those between United and British Airways, Northwest and KLM-Royal Dutch Airlines, Delta Airlines and Swissair, Texas Air (parent of Continental and Eastern) and Scandinavian Air Systems, and America West and Australia's Ansett.
 
'Worldwide Megacarrier'
 Pan Am's Mr. Plaskett says that the age of the ''worldwide megacarrier'' is upon us. ''British Airways flights currently cover 17 percent of the world's scheduled air routes, while United's cover 31 percent, with none overlapping,'' he commented. ''Together, British Airways and United will offer passengers nearly half of the world's existing air routes, much more than any other single airline or any alliance of airlines.
''Now, it doesn't take a rocket scientist to know that with $750 million invested in United, British Airways will do everything it possibly can to maximize the return on its investment. I hardly think there will be a strategic decision made by these two megacarriers that isn't carefully coordinated.''
James F. Rill, the assistant U.S. Attorney General for antitrust, said on Wednesday that his department will closely examine the British Airways investment and similar deals. United States laws, like those of many other nations, prevent outright mergers of domestic and foreign airlines.
''More likely is the formation of marketing joint ventures, with or without cross-ownership interests, involving foreign and domestic airlines, particularly for interline travel,'' he said. ''These types of transactions, or any consolidation between foreign and domestic airlines, would be analyzed under the antitrust laws.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner (NYT/Jose R. Lopez); graphs of the long-term debt of major U.S. airlines, 1985-1989* (*1st quarter) (Source: Blue Chip Airline Financial Indicators, Airline Economics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (60%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (60%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; CREDIT; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AIRLINES (93%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TAKEOVERS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BONDS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (74%); TRENDS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); DEBT FINANCING (60%); 

PERSON: SKINNER, SAMUEL K (SEC); CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR SAMUEL KNOX 'SAMUEL K' SKINNER (94%); 



560 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: WEEK IN BUSINESS;
Banks Take Blows On Foreign Debt

BYLINE: By STEVE DODSON

 BODY:
Some big banks took big steps to deal with their problem third world loans. J. P. Morgan added $2 billion to its loan-loss reserves, a move that is expected to give it a $1.8 billion loss in the quarter and a loss for the year. Chase Manhattan put aside an additional $1.15 billion and forecast a loss of $1.12 billion this quarter. Manufacturers Hanover added $950 million to reserves and said it expected a quarterly loss of $775 million. Executives of the banks said the arrangement worked out earlier this month between Mexico and its creditor banks showed a need to recognize the possibility of greater losses on third world loans. For many banks the agreement will mean accepting a 35 percent reduction in the value of their Mexican loans. American banks took similar actions in 1987, setting aside billions of dollars.
 
*
 Manufacturers Hanover sold control of its CIT Group finance company to Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank of Tokyo, the world's largest bank. The deal, at $1.4 billion, is the biggest investment yet by a Japanese bank in an American financial company. The money will help strengthen Manufacturers, which is more troubled than most big American banks by its third world loans. For Dai-Ichi, CIT will provide access to medium-sized American businesses. 
Bankers Trust will handle the sale of a corporate bond issue, becoming the first banking company to take advantage of a Federal Reserve decision in July to relax banking restrictions. Bankers Trust will handle a $150 million issue of ''junk bonds'' by Morningstar Foods, a Dallas maker and distributor of dairy products.
 
*
 The second-quarter growth rate was put at 2.5 percent in the final revision of the gross national product figures for the April- June period. That is down slightly from the previous estimate of 2.7 percent . . . Corporate profits in the quarter were even worse than previously estimated. The Federal Reserve said profits were down 7.2 percent, rather than off 5.4 percent . . . Consumer prices were unchanged in August, the first month in more than three years that the Consumer Price Index did not register an increase . . . Housing construction was down 5 percent in August . . . Personal incomes were up four-tenths of a percent in August, outpaced by consumer spending, which rose nine-tenths of a percent.
 
*
 The ''junk bond'' market had a rebound from its big losses, aided by the Campeau Corporation's arranging $250 million in emergency financing. The cash-flow problems of Campeau, a retailer and real estate company, had helped spook the junk market in the previous week. The stock market showed little direction. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 7.03 points for the week, closing at 2,681.61. The dollar headed down, as speculation grew that world monetary officials, meeting in Washington this weekend, would move to curb the dollar's months-long rise.
 
*
 Uniroyal Goodrich is being sold to Michelin of France for $690 million. The company, based in Akron, Ohio, is the nation's second-largest tire maker. It is owned by the New York investment firm of Clayton & Dubilier. After the deal, Goodyear, the nation's largest tire company, will be the only American tire maker not owned by foreign interests.
 
 *
 France's top chemical company, Rhone-Poulenc, agreed to buy two specialty chemical operations, paying $480 million for the GAF Corporation's unit and $820 million for a unit of Britain's RTZ Corporation.
 
*
 Ford is buying shares of Jaguar and dropping hints that it might eventually seek control of the British luxury car maker. Jaguar's board said the Ford move was not welcome, even though its chairman has said the ailing company may be forced to link up with a bigger corporation. Jaguar, which produces about 52,000 cars a year, has been hurt by a slump in its American sales.
Chrysler is selling 45 percent of the shares it holds in Mitsubishi Motors for $592 million. The buyers are 25 Japanese financial institutions. Chrysler's Mitsubishi stake will be cut to 12.1 percent, from 21.8 percent.
 
*
 Noxell is being acquired by Procter & Gamble in a $1.3 billion stock-swap deal. Noxell makes Noxzema skin- care products, Cover Girl and Clarion cosmetics and Lestoil household cleaner. Noxell's shares jumped $9.75, to $31, after the announcement.
 
*
 Miscellanea. A 10 percent stake in Tiffany & Company is being acquired by Misukoshi, the Japanese department store chain . . . Lion Nathan Ltd. of New Zealand is buying half the brewing operations of the Australian entrepreneur Alan Bond for $1.9 billion. The deal does not include Bond's G. Heileman beer operations in the United States . . . The Boston Celtics L.P., which owns the professional basketball team, is buying WFXT, the Boston television station owned by Rupert Murdoch. Terms were not disclosed.

GRAPHIC: Graph of Manufacturer's Hanover stock, March - Sept. 22, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); CIT (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CAMPEAU CORP (61%); BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (56%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (56%); CIT GROUP INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; CREDIT COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); BONDS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (88%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DEBT FINANCING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CASH FLOW (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); RETAILERS (68%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); BOND ISSUES (65%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (64%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%); 

PERSON: DODSON, STEVE ALAN BOND (58%); 



561 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEW IN FRAGRANCES;
As the Market Becomes Flooded, Sales Sink

BYLINE: By DEBORA TOTH; Debora Toth is a writer based in Long Island.

 BODY:
The American market is soaked in perfume. Manufacturers have been introducing 30 to 40 new fragrances a year - up from only 20 to 25 annually in the early 1980's. But instead of invigorating sales, it has made matters worse. 
Manufacturers already complain that consolidation among department stores has reduced the outlets for selling their wares. And a few in the industry worry that the pall cast over the singles scene by AIDS will weaken demand for fragrances. Worse, many women, overwhelmed by the selection, simply have delayed making a choice.
As a result, perfume sales have plunged. Purchases of women's fragrances in the United States have tumbled by about 34 percent since 1981, to about 1.4 million bottles last year, according to William Fitzgerald, a fragrance economist in Potomac, Md. Retail sales increased over the period at the pace of inflation, but only because manufacturers raised their prices. Fragrances include everything from perfumes, the richest in fragrance oil and the most expensive - averaging $200 an ounce - to the lightest and cheapest colognes and splashes.
The slowdown has inflamed marketing wars. Signing up stars for celebrity scents, the latest marketing gimmick, has helped increase the cost of introducing a fragrance to an average of $50 million, up from about $1 million 12 years ago. Even so, the hottest perfumes are lucky to last five years.
Together, the higher stakes of selling scents and the slowdown in sales have strengthened the positions of the biggest manufacturers. Last year, the top five fragrance makers controlled 62 percent of a $2.6 billion American retail market, up from 46 percent in 1981.
For manufacturers with the greatest distribution economies, fragrances, particularly the most prestigous brands, are still lucrative. And they could become even more so. Manufacturers are eyeing fertile foreign markets, where fragrance sales are growing by up to 20 percent a year. And many are encouraged by the promise of behavioral scents, which purport to remedy restlessness, even stress.

GRAPHIC: Graphs of sales vloume and average retail price of women fragrances, 1981-1988; pie charts of company market shares of U.S. women's fragrance market for 1981 and 1988 (Source: William Fitzgerald & Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: PERFUMES; SALES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS PERFUMES & COLOGNES (92%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); 

PERSON: TOTH, DEBORA



562 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS FOURM: GETTING TOUGH ON TRADE;
Give Japan a Target and Say 'Import!'

BYLINE: By RUDIGER DORNBUSCH; Rudiger Dornbusch is a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology

 BODY:
Japanese tariff rates are only 6.4 percent, even lower than those of the United States, Canada or the European Community. But even so,, gaining market access in Japan is an experience not unlike attaining justice in Franz Kafka's novel ''The Trial.''
To the charge of a closed market, Japanese officials use one of two responses. Either they assert that Japan is not closed at all - but that Japanese consumers are special. Or they argue that perhaps there were difficulties in the past, but all that has changed and Japan is opening up vigorously. 
Neither is true. Industrialized countries, without exception, show major increases in import penetration over time. But in Japan the ratio of manufactured imports to gross national product has stayed at about 2 percent over the last 20 years.
Japanese officials are quick to claim that Japan has been making strides in market opening. They make much of the fact that manufactured goods already account for more than half of imports, far above the share in the 1970's. But the rising share of manufactured goods is only the mirror image of the fall in oil and commodity prices in the 1980's and not the result of a sharp rise in manufactured imports. Growth of two-way trade in manufactures - common elsewhere because consumers like variety - has not happened in Japan.
It does not really matter for our purposes what causes Japan's imports to be low. There is no question that import discrimination exists. But the resulting cost of protection on Japanese consumers is their own problem, not ours. Even so, their discrimination hurts our export companies and that is unacceptable in an open trading system.
A new American trade policy toward Japan is now required. Where negotiations at the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and diplomacy have failed, the Super 301 provision of the 1988 trade law offers a means to force recognition of American trade interests in the world market.
The Super 301 route should be used to increase American market penetration in Japan. A target should be set based on the growth rate of Japanese imports of American manufactured goods. Japan should be required to increase its imports of manufactured goods from the United States at an average rate of at least 15 percent per year, with adjustments for inflation in each country. Assuming a 5 percent growth rate in Japan, the import share of American manufactured goods in the Japanese market would thus rise from 0.7 percent to 1.7 percent over a 10-year period.
There ought to be an effective sanction mechanism, automatic and forceful enough to initiate a timely and complete Japanese understanding that adjustment is now required or else access to the American market will be blocked. A suitable mechanism is an automatic tariff surcharge on Japanese exports to the United States. The surcharge would be triggered automatically in proportion to any shortfall of the Japanese import growth target. Early fulfillment of the target would halt the process.
Such a policy raises a number of issues. Japan might simply shift demand from European to American goods. If so what would be the European response? And what if Europe made the same demands of Japan as the United States? One would hope that Europe would do just that and, in exchange, forgo the growing tendency to discriminate against Japanese goods. Japan would face a multilateral challenge to open its markets that, if met, would lead to freer trade.
Japanese companies might also locate in the United States to produce ''Japanese'' goods for sale in Japan and thus meet the import test. There is no problem with Japanese investment in the United States; we are interested in ''good jobs at good wages'' and American-located production. Whether the employer is an American or Japanese company is almost irrelevant. Of course, trade growth targets have to be based on exports of products with substantial American content.
Japan might consider this American posture unacceptable. The trade problem could then widen to become a national security concern and confrontation would be unavoidable. Japan has grown up and is looking to define a role commensurate with its economic strength. In that search, Japan must choose whether it is willing to be part of an open trading system or is seeking another role.
We are ambivalent about Japan, fearful of Japan bashing and uncertain about triggering trade conflict. Japan is conscious of our lack of resolve and exploits it to the fullest. Where we go wrong is in assuming that the showdown can be avoided. If we do not open up Japan's market, the next recession will inevitably lead to import restrictions here - a much worse outcome for the entire liberal trading system.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); 

PERSON: DORNBUSCH, RUDIGER (PROF)



563 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Rapid Rail

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The reasoning of Eric W. Beshers, a former deputy director of the office of economics of the Department of Transportation, goes a long way toward explaining why the American transportation system is such a mess.
His attitude, which seems to be typical for that agency, is myopic: no more direct subsidies for rail, but it is perfectly O.K. to hand over more than half a trillion dollars of indirect subsidies to motor vehicle and air-lane users. The rail industry cannot be ''reaching for your wallet,'' because the airline and highway lobbies already have it firmly in their grasp. 
The motor fuel and air-passage taxes cover only a small portion of the public costs of flying or driving: Air traffic control is paid to a large extent from general funds, and automobile traffic control is funded by local taxes. Highway users are indirectly subsidized at 18 cents per passenger mile. If Amtrak got a similar subsidy, we could all ride free, and if the Pan Am shuttle were made to pay back the indrect subsidies it receives, the one-way fare would indeed be raised to over $150.
Mr. Beshers's arguments against some of the benefits of high-speed rail, like cleaner air and the energy savings, are misleading. A Pan Am shuttle with 70 passengers uses as much fuel moving from its loading gate up to cruising altitude as it takes for a Metroliner to travel all the way from New York to Washington with several hundred people.
And there is no question ''whether high-speed rail results in enough fewer cars or planes to make a difference.'' Just look at France's Train a Grande Vitesse: after its inception, demand for air travel between Paris and Lyons virtually disappeared.
 
ALBERT F. CAFIERO
Chairman
Bergen County Transit Committee
Tenafly, N.J., Sept. 3

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (71%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (71%); LYON, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (76%); AIRLINES (75%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (74%); AIR FARES (70%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (70%); 

PERSON: BESHERS, ERIC W; CAFIERO, ALBERT F



564 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL FINANCE;
Time to Take the Financial I.Q. Test

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD; Carole Gould writes about personal finance topics from New York.

 BODY:
Many people pride themselves on how much they know - or think they know - about financial matters. Yet accountants and financial planners say misconceptions are rife among their clients. And when it comes to money, the professionals say, ignorance is definitely not bliss. The following questions and answers on investments and taxes can give you a sense of your financial I.Q. You may find that it is time to sit down and review the A B C's of personal finance.
 
Q. You are looking for the best place to stash your small nest egg. While you want a good return, you are very concerned about the safety of your principal. Your stockbroker tells you a ''Government guaranteed'' mutual fund is your best bet. What does the guarantee mean? 
 
 
 
A. It means only that the Government guarantees the payment of principal when the bonds in the mutual fund's portfolio mature. The portfolio is made up of United States Government or agency bonds. But because the bonds are freely traded, their prices fluctuate and fund shareholders can lose principal, depending on when they sell their shares in the fund.
 

 
Q. Now that interest rates are dropping, you are thinking about refinancing your home mortgage. Your neighbor tells you that a 15-year mortgage is always a better deal than a 30-year mortgage, if you can afford the higher monthly payments. True or false?
 

 
A. False. While you always pay less interest on a shorter-term loan, choosing which mortgage to take is not clear-cut. You must evaluate two factors: the tax savings from the larger interest payments for a 30-year loan and your opportunity cost, or the amount you could earn by investing the difference in monthly payments between the two types of mortgages. Thus you may be able to take out a 30-year mortgage, use part of the difference in monthly payments to pay down the loan early, pay off the loan balance at the end of 15 years with accumulated savings from taxes and monthly payments and still have some cash left over, said Steven Enright, director of financial planning with Seidman Financial Services in New York.
 

 
Q. It is time to review your disability policy and your insurance agent insists that you need more coverage. Keep in mind, the agent says, that the payments are taxable. Are they?
 

 
A. When you purchase your own disability policy, any payments are tax-free. But when you get coverage through your job and your employer picks up the premiums, the payments are fully taxable.
 

 
Q. You are thinking about selling 100 shares of stock that you inherited from your father. Your father bought the shares in 1972 for a total of $200. When he died, the stock was worth $500. If you sell the shares for $1,000, what is your taxable gain?
 

 
A. $500. Your tax basis in the stock, or any inherited property, is the fair market value of the property at the time of death. Had your father made you a gift of the stock on the day before he died, you would have taken his basis - the $200 purchase price - and paid tax on a much larger gain.
 

 
Q. You see an advertisement for a fixed-income mutual fund yielding 12 percent. That looks good compared with the fund that your stockbroker is pushing, which pays only 11 percent. When you show her the ad, your broker still insists that her choice is a better investment. Is this possible?
 

 
A. Yes. Investors must also look at total return, which equals yield plus capital appreciation. The Bull and Bear High Yield Fund, for example, has a current yield of 12.19 percent but an annualized three-year return that amounts to a loss of 1.9 percent, notes Douglas E. Mollin, assistant director of financial planning for Seidman.
 
 
Q. To celebrate the birth of your first grandchild, you would like to deed the child some land that you own in Wyoming. Your real estate agent tells you that since you are giving property, not cash, you won't owe any gift tax. True or false?
 

 
A. False. Except for an annual exclusion, you owe Federal gift tax on the fair market value of any asset that you give as a gift. As for the exclusion, you can make tax-free gifts of up to $10,000 a year per recipient. If you and your spouse make the gift jointly, you can give up to $20,000.
 

 
Q. You've just opened up a gourmet take-out shop. Business is brisk, and you need some extra help. You are thinking about hiring your wife, or asking your 16-year-old son to help out after school, since you won't have to pay any Social Security tax on their wages. True or false?
 

 
A. False. Because of recent changes in the tax law, business owners must now pay Social Security tax on the wages of spouses and children of any age. Still, given the sharp curbs on family income-shifting, hiring young children has become more popular, said Lawrence W. Goldstein, a tax principal with Ernst & Young in New York.
 

 
Q. Your wallet was stolen, and the thief uses your bank card to withdraw cash from your account. Are you on the hook for (a) $50, (b) up to $500 or (c) the entire amount?
 

 
A. Depending on what you do, any of the three. If you notify the bank within two business days after learning of the loss or theft of your card, you are liable for only $50 of the fraudulent withdrawals. If you wait longer, the limit jumps to $500. And if you fail to notify the bank for more than 60 days after you receive your monthly statement, you may be liable for the entire loss.
 

 
Q. You are charged no interest on your credit card if you pay your bills within 30 days. You had a $150 balance outstanding last month. This month, you charge an additional $250. When you get your bill, do you owe interest on (a) $150, (b) $250 or (c) $400?
 

 
A. $400. The grace period does not apply when balances are carried forward on a bank card, said Elgie Holstein, director of the Bankcard Holders of America, a consumer group in Herndon, Va.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 1, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
The Personal Finance column last week misstated the rule that determines when the wages of children employed by their parents become subject to Social Security tax. Because of recent changes in the law, the tax applies to children 18 years of age or older, not to younger children.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AB C COMMUNICATIONS CORP (72%); 

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); BONDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); TAX LAW (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INSURANCE (67%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE



565 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Rapid Rail

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It is not true, as Eric Beshers stated, that the right of way for the T.G.V. must be almost straight and almost flat, which implies that new lines are exorbitantly expensive. While it is true that the route for an electric locomotive must be relatively straight, it does not need to be flat - which is where the high cost in construction is incurred. 
Steam does require almost level grades because the locomotive has an engine, and its capacity to create mechanical power is necessarily limited by size and weight. Also, it must carry its own fuel, an additional weight. Diesel engines have similar constraints.
But with electric trains, practically unlimited amounts of mechanical power are created at the central generating station and converted to electricity. Size is no limitation because a generating station doesn't have to move. Enormous amounts of electric power can be transmitted through a catenary, overhead wire, smaller in diameter than your finger. And the electric motor in the locomotive also has large capacity while being very compact since it is not creating power, merely changing its form. Thus, an electric locomotive is so powerful it can easily handle steep upgrades that would sharply slow a steam or diesel locomotive.
However, on sharp turns, the electric train must slow down, thereby losing its advantages of speed. This is why the French national railroad built a new route for the T.G.V. from Paris to Lyons.
To make the high-speed concept even more economical, dynamic breaking permits the electric locomotive's motor to slow the train on downgrades by functioning as a generator and pumping power back into the catenary.
 
ALBERT SANDERS
West Palm Beach, Fla. Sept. 7

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

COUNTRY: FRANCE (51%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (50%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (51%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (53%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS TRAINS (92%); POWER PLANTS (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); 

PERSON: SANDERS, ALBERT; BESHERS, ERIC W



566 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
The U.N., Resuscitated, Feels Like What It Was Meant to Be

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS

 BODY:
WHEN President Bush steps up to a green marble podium here Monday to address the United Nations General Assembly, his audience will be listening attentively for signs that the United States now wholeheartedly backs a stronger role for the organization in maintaining peace and resolving problems in the world.
The 44th General Assembly is convening in an atmosphere of optimism, with many delegates saying that the easing in East-West tensions has finally created the conditions needed for the United Nations to become something close to what its founders envisaged.
But peace is expensive, and economic conditions may not be so favorable. An important question will be how firm a commitment President Bush can give that the United States, under severe budgetary restraints, will pay its share of peacekeeping and other operations. 
A major reason for believing the time is ripe for the United Nations to become more effective is the change in Moscow's attitude toward the organization over the last couple of years. In that period, as other members have bowed to Western pressure to resist using conflicts to further their own ideological ends, the Soviet Union has revealed a new willingness to work with the United States and the other permanent Security Council members to resolve conflicts and develop joint approaches to common problems like global warming.
The change has strengthened the ability of the United Nations to help resolve bitter conflicts in Afghanistan, Namibia, the Persian Gulf and Central America. In none of these conflicts is a full settlement in place. But United Nations negotiators played critical roles in helping the Soviet Union withdraw from Afghanistan and in bringing about a cease-fire between Iran and Iraq. They are trying to help Namibia move toward independence and Central America carry out regional peace accords. Efforts are also being made to help extinguish conflicts in Cambodia, the Western Sahara, the Sudan and Ethiopia.
In the last two years, the number of blue-helmeted United Nations peacekeeping soldiers has risen by one-third, to about 14,000, as new forces were dispatched to Afghanistan, the gulf war zone, Namibia and are now planned for Central America. Meanwhile, the cost of such operations has nearly tripled, to an estimated $700 million this year, with the United States being assessed 30 percent of the total.
If forces are sent to Cambodia and other areas in the next few years, the peace bill could be higher still.
''The assistance of the organization is being sought as never before in its history,'' Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar said in his latest report on the organization's activities. ''There is weariness of wars and there is recognition of their futility.''
Money is not the only limitation on the peacemaking powers of the United Nations. The organization has had its greatest influence in places where antagonists were looking for a face-saving way out and the great powers could bring influence to bear, as in Afghanistan, Central America and Namibia. Civil wars in Cambodia, Ethiopia, the Sudan and the Western Sahara, where strong ethnic tensions are at play, are proving more difficult to resolve.
When he spoke before the General Assembly last year, Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev proposed ways to strengthen the organization in the 1990's, including an increased role in environmental protection and more diplomacy by the Security Council to nip disputes in the bud. Prof. Thomas M. Franck of New York University Law School, an expert on the United Nations, said the Soviet proposals represented ''an exceptional opportunity that could give the United Nations a new lease of life'' if the detente continues.
United Nations delegates hope that President Bush expresses renewed American faith in the United Nations in his speech tomorrow.
In the Reagan years, United States antagonism grew toward the United Nations, viewed as a place where radicals sought to promote their statist views of the world and trample on personal freedoms. By encouraging Congress to withhold financing from the United Nations, the Reagan Administration turned the United States into the organization's biggest debtor, while still seeking to exercise its control.
But now President Bush has signaled a change of tack, asking Congress to pay the full American share this year and start repaying arrears. But while Congress is expected to fulfill his first request, there is little chance it will repay any debt.
Today the United States owes the United Nations $491 million in unpaid regular budget contributions, or two-thirds of all outstanding dues, as well as $254 million for peacekeeping operations to which it gave political support but failed to find the money for when the bills came in. For years, Washington scolded Moscow for its failure to pay, but the Soviet Union is now paying its back dues, furthering pressure on the United States.
There are serious doubts whether the United Nations can begin any new peacekeeping operations without some guarantee of stronger American financial support, even though the need for them is likely to increase. President Bush's speech could give some clues on how likely those prospects are.

GRAPHIC: Member of the United Nations peacekeeping force in southern Lebanon (Black Star/Christopher Morris)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); NAMIBIA (93%); CAMBODIA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); WESTERN SAHARA (79%); IRAQ (79%); LEBANON (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); GULF STATES (54%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (69%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS INTERIM FORCE IN LEBANON (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); GENERAL ASSEMBLY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); PEACE PROCESS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); GLOBAL WARMING (76%); BUDGETS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); DESERT STORM (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); LEWIS, PAUL GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



567 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Why the U.S. Closed the Door Halfway on Soviet Jews

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FOR 20 years, the United States and Israel have denounced the Soviet Union for severely restricting the right to emigrate. Now that Moscow is allowing record numbers of Soviet Jews and Pentacostals to leave, it is not clear where they will go.
The Bush Administration announced a momentous change in United States refugee policy this month without fully explaining the reasons. On the advice of State Department and immigration officials, President Bush ordered that all decisions on Soviet refugee claims be made at the American Embassy in Moscow. Beginning next month, Soviet citizens will not be allowed to apply for refugee status in Rome or Vienna, as they have been able to since the early 1970's. The Administration also set a ceiling of 50,000 on the number of Soviet refugees in the coming year. 
Israeli officials welcomed the change and predicted that it will substantially increase the migration of Soviet Jews to Israel, because they will find it harder to get into the United States as refugees. Israel looks forward to resettling thousands of Soviet Jews even though it has had difficulty finding jobs and housing for some recent emigres. The number of Jews leaving the Soviet Union rose from 8,155 in 1987 to 18,965 last year and may exceed 48,000 this year. American officials say that could double next year.
American Jewish groups recognize that limits on the admission of Soviet refugees are inevitable, and some, like the National Conference on Soviet Jewry, say they support the Administration plan to centralize operations in Moscow. But many groups, including the National Association of Evangelicals, say the change is being made too abruptly and that there will be too few immigration officers at the Moscow Embassy.
In explaining their decision, Administration officials cited many humanitarian, financial, political and bureaucratic concerns.
First, said Deputy Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger, there was an ''intolerable and inhumane situation'' for Soviet emigres ''passing through the Rome and Vienna pipeline.'' More than 14,000 Jews who managed to get out of the Soviet Union are in Ladispoli, Italy, outside Rome. Most are waiting for their cases to be adjudicated; some have already been found ineligible for refugee status in the United States. Many feel stranded, even though they left Moscow with Israeli visas and could go to Israel.
 
Embarrassing Situation
The long line of refugees in Italy is embarrassing to American officials. For years, Washington looked upon the Soviet Union's denial of exit visas with concern. But now, by most accounts, the number of Soviet Jews denied admission to the United States as refugees, about 5,000 in the last year, exceeds the number who have been refused exit visas and remain in the Soviet Union. American officials said they feared that their operations in Rome and Vienna might be overwhelmed by a huge outpouring of Soviet emigres in the coming year.
 
State Department officials including Ivan Selin, the
Under Secretary for Management, expressed confidence that with computers and other technology, the American Embassy in Moscow can cope with the flow of refugees. Soviet citizens will apply in Moscow, but much of the paperwork will be done by ''remote control,'' from an office in the Washington area.
Jewel S. Lafontant, the new United States Coordinator for Refugee Affairs, said the Administration wanted to ''get control over the flow'' of emigres from Moscow. ''The situation in Rome is extremely costly and ultimately inhumane under current conditions,'' she said.
Soviet citizens who apply for refugee status in Moscow can return home and keep their jobs while waiting for a decision. The situation is much more awkward when Soviet citizens file applications in Rome, because they are then, in effect, camped out on the doorstep of the American Embassy there.
 
The expense of caring for
Soviet refugees in Italy -$34 million this year - was another factor in the decision to phase out use of the way station in Rome. ''We are short'' of money at a time when the number of refugees worldwide has grown to a record level of 14 million, said Princeton N. Lyman, the new director of refugee programs at the State Department.
But some in Congress argue that fiscal concerns are a poor excuse for the change in policy. Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, said, ''We have a great American ideal of an open door for refugees, but then we come up against the hard reality of cold cash.'' Representative Bruce A. Morrison of Connecticut, chairman of the Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said that Democrats would probably acquiesce in the change, but believed the Administration should proceed more slowly.
Israel has long insisted that Soviet Jews carrying Israeli visas should not be regarded as refugees. There is no evidence that President Bush's decision was a response to Israeli pressure, but Administration officials have noted that Soviet Jews can go to Israel, while other refugees often have no place to go.
Israel ardently wants the Soviet Jews to resettle in Israel, seeing their arrival as a fulfillment of Zionism and as a possible counterbalance to the rapid growth of Israel's Arab population. But officials acknowledge that with the country in a recession, Israel cannot provide jobs for large numbers of Soviet Jews.
The debate over Soviet emigration demonstrates how United States refugee policy can be affected by domestic political pressures. Dozens of groups have prodded the Administration to keep the doors open to refugees from the Soviet Union and Indochina; there is much less debate in Congress about the plight of Africa's four million refugees.
Experts say it is conceivable that some Soviet Jews, denied refugee status in America, might choose to stay in the Soviet Union rather than go to Israel. Israeli officials say this is unlikely. But if it happened, it would undermine the contention that Soviet Jews have ''a well-founded fear of persecution,'' justifying their admission to the United States as refugees.

GRAPHIC: Soviet Jews outside the United States Embassy in Rome this month to press for American visas (Saba/Agenzia Contrasto/Luigi Baldelli); graph of Soviet Jewish emigration showing number arriving in U.S. vs. Israel, 1971-89 (source: HIAS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (98%); ITALY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); ISRAEL, STATE OF

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES REFUGEES (92%); JEWS & JUDAISM (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); RELIGION (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT GEORGE W BUSH (67%); 



568 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Sudden Support for National Health Care

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
PROPOSALS that might once have been denounced as socialized medicine or ignored as too costly are now getting serious consideration in Washington, with various plans for insuring America's health receiving the support of labor, industry and the medical establishment.
The core of the problem is that 31 million uninsured Americans are denied ready access to anything but emergency health care. Possible legislative solutions are being considered by a panel of Congressional members and Presidential appointees that began hearings last week. The Bipartisan Commission on Comprehensive Health Care, which was created by Congress last year to develop a national plan, is to issue recommendations next spring.
While the United States spends 12 percent of its gross national product on a system that provides spotty or no service to millions, Canada spends 8.6 percent of its G.N.P. to provide health care to all its citizens and other Western democracies spend even less, using some form of national health insurance. 
The proposals under consideration include everything from simply requiring all employers to provide health insurance, to proposals that would combine public and private resources to make sure no one is uninsured, to the most sweeping proposal now under study, the Canadian approach, under which the Federal Government would be responsible for virtually all health care expenses. Some proposals also include measures specifically intended to hold down the soaring costs of medical care. A Canadian-style plan in particular would represent a radical change for Americans, but some experts expect changes in that direction eventually.
''It is very unlikely in the near future that we'll have a Canadian-type system,'' said Dr. Arnold Relman, editor of The New England Journal of Medicine, in an interview. ''But by the end of the century, I'd be willing to bet that's where we'll come out.''
In a remarkable shift of the political winds, the pressure for expansion of health care coverage is coming from many directions. But each of the various approaches has its own constituency. The medical establishment, for example, tends to oppose plans that would limit fees or treatment, though some doctors support increased Government control. Employers tend to favor plans that shift more of the cost to Government; but some fiscal conservatives in Congress would limit Government involvement, preferring to let the insured pay more for insurance. Many liberals would increase Government responsibility, but would rather not talk of new taxes.
 
Changing Minds
''Employers are changing their minds about national health insurance because they are losing the advantage in international competition by having to pay for health care, instead of having the Government pay,'' said Melvin A. Glasser, director of the Committee for National Health Insurance, a coalition representing labor groups.
Hospitals see national health insurance as necessary to defray the growing costs they bear in treating the uninsured without compensation. ''There should be universal coverage, a partnership with Federal, state and private components,'' said a spokeswoman for the American Hospitals Association. The American Medical Association generally agrees.
Members of the national health care commission said the need for a national plan is urgent. But even before the hearings began, members of Congress agreed that the prospects for national health insurance have been harmed by the current backlash against the legislation passed last year to protect the elderly against the expense of catastrophic illness. Thousands of older people have protested a surtax that helps finance the program, and the law creating it may be repealed. Now some in Congress question whether Americans are ready to make the sacrifices needed to finance national health insurance.
''The impact of the campaign against the Medicare catastrophic bill has scared a lot of us into feeling that we can't do the things we should do,'' said Senator David Durenberger, a Minnesota Republican who is a member of the health subcommittee of the Finance Committee. Any national health insurance program would require some sacrifices, perhaps restrictions in what services are covered, tax increases or reductions in retirement benefits.
''Nobody seems to want to give up anything for the greater good,'' Senator Durenberger said.
While there is broad support for the basic notion that no American ought to be uninsured, there is strong opposition to achieving that goal through a plan similar to Canada's. The National Association of Manufacturers, in a recent report on the issue, doubted the Government's competence to administer such a plan and said that in any case the change would be ''too radical to be politically feasible.'' And at its annual convention in June, the A.M.A. called on its staff to ''document the deficiencies and problems that characterize Canadian health care.''
Still, Congress, industry and the medical establishment largely agree that the health safety net needs broadening. Representing the Administration's point of view, Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services, told the panel last week, ''We share your sense of urgency.''
 
GETTING EVERYBODY COVERED
Here are some proposals for national health coverage that exemplify the approaches being considered by a Congressionally mandated panel.
 
The Canadian Example
Proposed by Physicians for a National Health Program, a 2,000-member group based in Cambridge, Mass. The Government would virtually control health care, paying hospitals on a negotiated rate and doctors according to a binding fee schedule. Money now spent on Medicare, Medicaid and state and local health care would finance the plan. In addition, employers and employees would be taxed. Patients could select their own doctors and hospitals without paying additional costs. All doctors would be members of plan, but fee schedules would vary according to the local cost of living. Critics say care would suffer under cumbersome Government control.
 
Encouraging H.M.O.'s
A plan developed by two California researchers would provide minimum health benefits for everyone who is not covered by Medicare, Medicaid or some other public program. Coverage would be purchased through employers or through a public sponsor. The plan would encourage the use of health maintenance organizations by rewarding efficiency, say the authors, Alain Enthoven of Stanford University and Richard Kronick of the University of California, San Diego. The plan, which has gained some support through publication in medical literature, would be financed through new taxes and would not abolish private insurance. It projects savings through more efficient use of medical technology. Many doctors oppose it, saying it would do away with solo practitioners.
 
Minimum Coverage for Al
Proposed by the National Leadership Commission on Health Care, a coalition of 38 corporations, unions and foundations. The commission, whose chairmen are former Presidents Nixon, Carter and Ford, has proposed a plan that would mandate basic health care insurance for everyone, with all employers being required to provide at least minimum coverage. The Government would continue to pay for coverage for the poor and unemployed. Financing for the plan would come from premiums or fees paid by businesses and by employees whose income is more than one and one-half times the poverty level. Some critics say the bare-bones plan is insufficient.
 
Increasing Employer Contributions
A proposal by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, would require employers to provide basic health benefits to employees and their dependents, who would pay 20 percent of medical care costs up to a maximum of $3,000. Coverage would include hospitalization, physician visits, prenatal and baby care, mental health care and diagnostic tests. The 14 million Americans who are uninsured and unemployed would receive similar coverage from the states. Critics of the proposal say that it would create an unfair financial burden for business, which would be required to pay much of the cost.
 
State-Federal Burden Sharing
Backed by organized labor's Committee for National Health Insurance. The Federal Government would mandate basic health care benefits for everyone. The plan would be administered by the states, which could provide added services. The package would include inpatient and outpatient care, drugs, tests, mental health and substance-abuse treatment and long-term care. Payments for services would be made by state agencies. It would be financed through payroll taxes paid by both employers and employees, and by general Federal revenues and private insurance premiums. There would be no free health care, except to children and pregnant women in poor families. Charges would be based on the patient's income. Some say the plan gives too much power to states, leading to possible disparities in care.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; CANADA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN



569 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: The Education Governors

 BODY:
For only the third time, a President has convened the nation's governors to discuss a single issue. President Bush has the opportunity this week to follow through on his campaign pledge to be the education President.
All 50 governors will gather Wednesday in Charlottesville, Va., for a two-day summit meeting on education. They will be looking to the White House to make this meeting only step one toward higher, measurable national standards of achievement, greater flexibility in the use of Federal funds and more aid for early childhood development. 
Though education is principally a state and local responsibility, the Federal Government plays an important role, particularly in insuring equal educational opportunity. It can also be an effective catalyst.
The 1983 report ''A Nation at Risk'' focused on raising academic standards and teacher competence. Now, with increased global competition and business need for basic skills, governors seek to stress the link between educational improvement and economic survival. The Governors Association is halfway through a five-year reform plan that includes improved curriculums, decentralized decision-making, enhanced roles for teachers, improved facilities and accountability.
Mr. Bush has, thus far, offered little in the way of innovative programs or policies. He says the problem is money. At a time of huge deficits, the White House wants to promote the idea that more can be done with less. Fine. There are at least three initiatives he can sponsor, two that are not very costly and one that is extremely cost-effective.
One is national goals. Educators and policy makers largely agree on the need to define national goals. The goals might include a reduction in the dropout rate and basic information that every high school graduate should know. What's necessary are clear goals that can be measured and for which leaders can be held accountable.
The governors want and deserve more flexibility in using the money. Federal money is tied, often irrationally, into more than 200 programs in various departments.
Repeated evidence shows the importance of intervening early in the lives of disadvantaged children. There are many ways Washington can do so, including with adequate nutrition and health care from before birth to kindergarten.
It's one thing to call a summit meeting on education. It's quite another to follow through with ideas, support and, yes, dollars. Only if this meeting proves to be a gathering of national resolve and not simply a political showcase will Mr. Bush earn the right to be called the education President.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; GOVERNORS (US); EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FEDERAL AID (US); STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION GOVERNORS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); CURRICULA (77%); CHILDREN (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); BUDGETS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); NUTRITION (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



570 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: It's Time to Repeal Marijuana Prohibition

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your Economic Watch article on the high hidden costs of the war on marijuana (Sept. 5) is informative, but like much reporting on the topic, lacks historical perspective. This is most prominent in the discussion of legalization.
''Legal marijuana,'' it is stated, ''could be a major source of tax revenue rather than a $14 billion business for criminals and a billion-dollar cost to the Treasury. But there is little support for such a radical experiment; it is generally agreed that more people would smoke marijuana if it were legal, just as more people began drinking alcohol with the end of Prohibition in 1933.'' 
This paragraph perpetuates the popular misconception that marijuana has been illegal since the beginning of time. Of course, it has not, nor has any drug; indeed, it is the prohibition of marijuana that is, as the prohibition of alcohol was before repeal, an experiment - and to judge from ''Marijuana: Costs of Abuse, Costs of Control,'' the Michael Kleiman report that occasioned your article, and from the collective experience of those charged with enforcing this prohibition, a failed experiment. The same can be said for the criminalization of all recreational drugs.
Also, this paragraph ignores that in recent years, with the public recognition of the health hazards inherent in the consumption of alcohol, and resulting from better public education about these hazards, per capita consumption of all alcohol has declined significantly, with a steeper decline in the category of distilled spirits, which have the highest concentration of alcohol and carry the highest risk. This, despite the constant advertising of these spirits on billboards, in public transportation and in every edition of The New York Times Magazine, among other places.
In other words, an educated market, in the best American tradition, is choosing the safer drug over the more dangerous drug, just as it would were marijuana (and preferably the other recreational drugs as well) legalized, as they were before this failed prohibition began.
The public is beginning to recognize, despite the news media's (and legislators') easy dismissal of the facts, that drug-related crime is really drug-law-related crime, and that our experience with alcohol in the 1920's speaks to our experience with other recreational drugs in the 1980's and 90's. The only way to eliminate drug-law-related crimes is to eliminate the profit of the illicit trade that engenders those crimes.
The police state we are approaching now is no solution (witness the recent bill passed by the Senate that authorizes the Drug Enforcement Agency to shoot down suspected drug smugglers in aircraft, endangering every private pilot who operates near our borders); it is just a greater problem. We need to recognize that economical and sensible solutions exist, and we should concentrate on the best way to implement them, and stop wasting our time on our current futile wars.
 
THOMAS BETZ
 Yonkers, Sept. 5, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (53%); 

SUBJECT: MARIJUANA CANNABIS (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (89%); HISTORY (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CONSUMPTION (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (78%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (74%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (69%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (66%); LEGISLATION (65%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); 



571 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 234 words

HEADLINE: Let Debtor Countries Fill Our Oil Reserves

 BODY:
To the Editor:
With the need to increase strategic long-term storage of oil in our huge salt domes, why wouldn't it be in order to ask Mexico and Venezuela to increase their oil production and ship the excess to us for storage?
Payment could be made by reducing the national debt of the exporting country. There would be no effect on the world price of oil because the oil would, by agreement, be for storage only and not resale. The huge reserves of Mexico and Venezuela would not be so depleted as to impair their resources.
On the contrary, once this debt-oil storage deal is struck, the foreign credit of both those countries would be strengthened immeasurably. There could be a major step in halting the huge local inflation that is impoverishing their wage earners. The United States Government would pay United States banks that are owed billions by these countries and prevent writing off huge loans, which would have an adverse effect on our budgetary income.
We have an increasing import deficit as we incur increased debt to pay for oil from countries that owe us so much. We can accelerate the stocking of United States oil reserves, help the exporting countries and remove from the backs of taxpayers the cost of writing off foreign, nonpaying loans, all without reducing the oil receipts from normal sales by these two countries.
 
JOSEPH D. BLAU
 White Plains, Sept. 2, 1989

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; VENEZUELA; MEXICO

SUBJECT: CREDIT; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVE; STOCKPILING LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBTOR NATIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS STORAGE FACILITIES (78%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); 

PERSON: BLAU, JOSEPH D



572 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: New Kinds of Work and Workers Take Shape

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Lester C. Thurow's article on the failure of service industries to be more than a transitional phase between an old and new industrial era makes an admirable case for the economic necessity of manufacturing in our economy (Op-Ed, Sept. 4).
Manufacturing does matter; but it matters in more than economic ways. The production of goods is a complicated form of human activity, in which values and attitudes toward work have always figured large. Historically, values and attitudes about work on the part of American blue-and white-collar workers alike have been important in the acceptance of new technologies and of the new industries in which they are integrated. At the same time, these values constitute standards against which people measure their work experience and the success or failure of these technologies and industries. 
Thus, in addition to the failure of service industries to fill the economic breach, we need to consider the question of the impact that work in the service sector has had on the way Americans think about the work they do, and how changes in their attitudes and expectations about work will affect the reception of any new forms of industrial activity.
For example, many people rushed to embrace the new computerized jobs, drawn by the promise of prestige, of working on the cutting edge, of clean and comfortable offices, rather than factory surroundings, of the greater dignity and respect associated with white-collar work and of a middle-class suburban way of life. Fifteen years later, there is much disappointment and frustration at all levels of industry with service jobs.
The questions to be asked are whether computer-based service jobs that demand little skill and offer low pay have discouraged people from taking the initiative at work, so that they would avoid rather than welcome jobs in any new industry that makes new demands on them. Or has the computer itself come to embody an ideal of effortless work through innovative technology that would draw people to new industries in which the computer is an integral part.
The frustrations of workers are encouraging management and consultants to look for new ways to increase efficiency and productivity in the workplace. Job therapists are employed seeking new ways to motivate work. We might also ask them: How has the vision of service-industry work as clean, pleasant and personally satisfying altered the expectations of people in all ranks of the labor force about quality of life in the workplace?
Or, if we keep in mind the Japanese model, did the experience of work in the service sector help accustom individuals to more hierarchically structured working relationships, in which pride in one's work is not a major source of motivation? Or will this experience encourage workers to find new protection for their jobs in unions? How will workers' disappointments affect their expectations and demands should new opportunities in manufacturing materialize?
Some of the answers are being gathered in innovative community studies combining oral history interviews and archival research. The lives of people in towns and cities where heavy industry and manufacturing once thrived, but are now in decline or defunct, have much to tell us about the changing meaning of work.
In Ohio, in Massachusetts, in Pennsylvania, the shift from manufacturing to service industries has been more or less successful. The longtime residents of Cleveland, of Holyoke, of Pittsburgh can provide us with insights about the complexities of economic change that should prove useful when the next industrial revolution comes along.
 
MIRIAM R. LEVIN
Assistant Professor, History of Technology and Science Program
Case Western Reserve University
 Cleveland, Sept. 4, 1989

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: SERVICE INDUSTRIES LTD (90%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SERVICE INDUSTRIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); SUBURBS (64%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, MIRIAM R



573 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 25, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
Insisting On Disaster

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
William Bennett, the Bush drug czar, thinks the United States made a mistake when it repealed Prohibition in 1933. We would be better off if it were a crime to buy a drink.
That, at least, is the logic of Mr. Bennett's latest statement on drug policy. It was a response, in The Wall Street Journal, to an open letter from Milton Friedman calling for the decriminalization of drugs. Anyone who wants to know the level of thought behind the Bush-Bennett drug program ought to read it. 
Professor Friedman said that relying on the criminal law to stop drug use - the policy of the last many decades - in fact helped to cause the drug scourge. Illegality created obscene profits, corruption, crime: ''A replay of our experience with the prohibition of alcoholic beverages.''
''The path you propose,'' Mr. Friedman wrote, ''of more police, more jails, use of the military in foreign countries, harsh penalties for drug users and a whole panoply of repressive measures can only make a bad situation worse.'' He added that he was revolted by the idea of ''turning the United States into an armed camp,'' with ''an army of enforcers empowered to invade the liberty of citizens on slight evidence.''
To all this Mr. Bennett gave the back of his hand. Mr. Friedman's argument was ''old and familiar,'' he said. It failed to consider the likelihood that if drugs could be obtained legally, their use would dramatically increase.
''After the repeal of Prohibition,'' Mr. Bennett said, ''consumption of alcohol soared by 350 percent.''
So Mr. Bennett, according to his own logic, must regret repeal. It resulted in an immediate increase in drinking, so it was a bad idea.
But that was not the only result of repeal. It did away with speak-easies and rum-runners, with the whole culture of alcohol crime that had given us Al Capone and a new criminal class in this country.
Of course alcohol abuse remains a serious problem. As Mr. Friedman wrote, ''Alcohol and tobacco cause many more deaths in users than do drugs.'' But we have had some success at dealing with the problem by taxation and regulation. Does anyone think we would have more success by once again criminalizing the use of alcohol?
I do not suppose that Mr. Bennett really wants to bring back Prohibition. He just refuses to open his mind to its compelling lesson. In his reply to Mr. Friedman he passed it off in a phrase, saying the analogy between drug and alcohol prohibition was ''misunderstood by legalization advocates.''
Admitting to ourselves that the law enforcement model has not worked would be no panacea. Willingness to face that reality would be just the beginning of a difficult but at least a sensible path.
The change in policy would have to be made gradually, experimentally, with different ideas in different states. The risks and benefits of such an approach are thoughtfully explored in the Sept. 1 issue of Science magazine by Prof. Ethan Nadelmann of Princeton.
Mr. Bennett did not really argue the issue in his letter to Professor Friedman. He substituted pugilism for argument. Government has to teach right and wrong by the criminal law, he said. Only ''the liberal elites'' disagree. Liberal elites? Those who have spoken out lately for decriminalization include not only Milton Friedman but two eminent conservative British voices, The Economist and The Financial Times. Those conservatives understand that criminalizing drugs creates an enormous economic incentive to distribute them.
The Economist returned to the point in its last issue, coming up with a telling quotation from John D. Rockefeller Jr. He pushed for Prohibition. But after seeing it in action in the 1920's he wrote:
''That a vast array of lawbreakers has been recruited and financed on a colossal scale . . .; that respect for all law has been greatly lessened; that crime has increased to an unprecedented degree - all this I have slowly and reluctantly come to believe.''
It is time for Bill Bennett to open his mind in the same way. He is a student of James Madison, so he knows how crucial it is for public officials to be open to change. And under the bombast he must realize that decriminalizing drugs cannot be honestly dismissed as an ''old'' idea. The trouble is precisely that our leaders have been too spineless to consider it - too afraid of being called ''weak.''
Decriminalization, Professor Nadelmann writes in Science, has been ''dismissed without any attempt to evaluate it openly and objectively. The past 20 years have demonstrated that a drug policy shaped by rhetoric and fear-mongering can only lead to our current disaster.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WALL STREET JOURNAL

SUBJECT: DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE DRUG POLICY (91%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (75%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY; BENNETT, WILLIAM J; FRIEDMAN, MILTON WILLIAM BENNETT (94%); MILTON FRIEDMAN (92%); 



574 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 4; Page 25, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Time for Bush to Back Up His Speeches With Action

BYLINE: By Mario M. Cuomo; Mario M. Cuomo, Governor of New York, is completing his second term.

DATELINE: ALBANY

 BODY:
Nearly three-quarters of the way through the first year of the new Administration, extraordinarily little of major significance has been produced in Washington. As a Governor, a citizen and a Democrat, I think we have given an appropriate period of deference to the new Administration. It is time now for a different approach.
At their 1984 Convention in San Francisco, the Democrats said that while President Reagan believed we all lived in one glittering, shining City on a Hill, there was another city where people were struggling. 
For eight years, President Reagan argued that the other city did not exist. And for eight years, the voices of people crying for help went largely unheard. Their conditions grew worse as the resources they needed went, instead, into tax cuts that enriched the already rich and into ever-escalating defense budgets.
Now, our new President has broken with his predecessor: He has conceded the Democrats were right, that there is another city. He has seen it. In speech after speech, he has said that it is a place of broken dreams, disappointed hopes and great pain, and we must help the people there.
But President Bush has done all he can with speeches. Now he has to produce resources that will deliver on his promises or concede to the nation that he is still an unconverted conservative who has simply tried to earn himself some cheap grace by reciting a little Democratic poetry.
It is time for President Bush to decide to use Government - as well as his thousand points of light - to provide the bricks, the stone, the mortar, the resources to build a roadway: a wide and sure and safe roadway -from the other city to the shining City on the Hill.
We must start wth our most serious problem - drugs. President Bush says we are at war. He's right, of course. We've been at war for years. And we are losing. Despite this, he is saying that he can't send any substantial number of troops to the front lines where the lives are being lost, in the cities and suburbs of our nation.
The war, in effect, is to be declared by the President, but financed and waged by the states.
And there's more - much more -than drugs on the national agenda.
We need to declare - and to fund -a national Decade of the Child, a real, targeted, specific commitment to begin a full 10 years of emphasis to fight a disgraceful infant mortality rate, to provide access to adequate health care for every child, to provide child care and Head Start for all of our children who need it, not just one out of five of them.
Recognizing this, when the governors meet with President Bush later this month at the education summit, I will propose that Washington help provide national Liberty Scholarships, like the ones we in New York are so proud of, which guarantee that every child who qualifies for college - no matter how poor - will be afforded the means to achieve a degree from a good college.
Also, we have to do more than decry the terrible spread of AIDS, the contamination of our environment, the deterioration of our roads and bridges, the increase in homelessness. At least, we have to rebuild the Department of Housing and Urban Development and other Federal agencies that have been deliberately dismantled, even corruptly.
If there is doubt about whether we have the resources to meet all these needs, the Administration should forget the new capital gains tax cut. Let's be honest. It would be great for some of us. But long-term, it's just another break for the top of the economic ladder, which that has already done so well, and a loss for everyone else.
Also, it makes a mockery of the tax reform bill that reduced the tax rate on our richest people, partly in return for an increased capital gains rate. Now, President Bush proposes giving the rich people back the price they paid for the lower rate - so they would get both!
There are others who need a break more: the victims of crime, abused children, potential workers desperate for an education and training, millions of sick people without insurance, families struggling to find a home they can afford and to give their children a college education.
There is still more proof that the complaint that the nation cannot afford to meet these needs is disingenuous. After saying we were broke and could find no money for housing or education - or the drug war, President Bush found $166 billion (not million) over 10 years to bail out savings and loan owners and depositors and built a giant new Federal bureaucracy to rival Franklin D. Roosevelt's alphabet agencies.
Where did you get the money, Mr. President? Is it there for banks, but not babies? Do we have $166 billion to fight fiscal problems, but not $16 billion to fight drugs? Do we have $166 billion to protect private treasuries, but not $5 billion to build roads and bridges? Do we have $166 billion to protect investors, but not $20 billion to educate kids and teach them the fundamental values that could save a generation?
In foreign affairs we have adopted a laissez-faire attitude, relying on what we hope will be a benevolent destiny, instead of our own initiatives. We allow arms control negotiations to lag, although agreements could reduce the costs of military preparedness - freeing resources we need to deal with domestic problems.
We have chosen inaction instead of movement as Poland and Hungary struggle toward greater economic and political freedom. And we seem as reluctant to encourage human rights progress in Eastern Europe as we were to denounce China's brutal human rights violations.
Yes, it's been a relatively quiet eight months. But while we were still at rest, our problems were not. They grew. And none of them are being effectively dealt with now by our Federal Government. We're coasting and that's no way to go uphill.
It's time to rouse ourselves from our cordial contentment.
If the Administration cannot, or will not, find the political courage to reinforce democracy abroad, or to make hard judgments about how best to use this nation's wealth at home; if it raises the flag of surrender over the other city, then the Democrats must seize the day - and the flag. Either that, or resign ourselves to the role of unhappy but silent centuries in an army that will not fight.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT US PRESIDENTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICS (71%); BUDGETS (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (67%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (64%); CHILDREN (63%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



575 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 20, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: On Language;
Drug-War Lingo

BYLINE: BY WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
IN THE >CRACKDOWN on >crack and other drugs, there may be no >magic bullet, but >drug kingpins, narco-terrorists and even >casual users - not to mention >carpers on the sidelines - can expect >zero tolerance.
This is the lingo of drug warfare. The nation is hooked on it (we are all linguistic junkies), and because there is no getting this particular monkey off our backs, let's at least dig up the derivations of the phrases being pushed in the discourse of drug dudgeon.
In the early days, about three generations back, we had >hopheads (''hop'' for >opium) and >dope fiends (''dope'' from the Dutch doop for ''sauce'' or ''dip,'' referring to the sticky opiate). The standard English covering these slang terms is >user, in contrast to >pusher. 
''To the so-called >'casual user' '' was the beginning of a warning by President Bush in March of 1989 to >recreational users, a phrase chosen by some drug users to differentiate themselves from addictive users. >Casual user is not rooted exclusively in the drug culture; the phrase can be found in a 1976 Business Week story about a computer system ''not geared for the casual user''; other early citations also point to popularization by computer whizzes derogating those of us in the nonserious software crowd. Crossover use was natural: Mary Jane Hatcher, the widow of a murdered law officer, said, ''We middle-class suburban Americans, we casual users . . . must accept blame . . . .'' (Curiously, >casual - rooted in the Latin for ''chance'' -has a military sense, first as a clipped form of >casualty, later as a soldier in temporary status on the way to another station. The use of >casual in the 1593 term >casual poor, for those who drift in and out of poverty, has been carried over into >casual labor, used for transient or migratory workers since 1852.) ''American cocaine users need to understand that our nation has >zero tolerance for casual drug use,'' said the President in his Sept. 5 speech outlining what he labeled his ''drug strategy.'' >Zero is from the Arabic >sifr; the first citation for >zero tolerance in the Barnhart Books files is from a 1958 Science Newsletter: ''A good example of the care taken to protect against pesticide poisoning is the minimum tolerance set for milk: zero . . . . Recently, zero tolerance was set for methoxychlor and malathion.'' In the Nixon White House, H. R. (Bob) Haldeman was known for demanding >zero mistakes, and the >zero tolerance phrase was popularized in the drug world by William von Raab, then United States Customs chief, when he sought last year to impound yachts that had even a single marijuana cigarette aboard. Lately, >zero has become an emphatic way to say ''no'': margarine makers promise ''zero cholesterol,'' and economists warn of ''zero growth.'' The word has been booming ever since the atomic age's ''ground zero,'' and one of these days I will zero in on it.
A >narc was long the slang name for a narcotics law enforcement officer, rooted in the Greek >narke, ''numbness, stiffness, stupor,'' but now the first two syllables of ''narcotics'' are frequently found in longer terms. Like >klepto- and >crypto-, >pseudo- and >porno-, >narco- is a combining form, which can now be applied to anything in the illicit drug trade. Nestor K. Ikeda, reporting from Lima for The Associated Press in 1982, attributed the coinage of >narco-terrorism to Fernando Belaunde Terry, at that time Peru's President, who was describing a union of drug dealers and political terrorists. In his Democratic response to President Bush's message, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. lashed out at >narco-terrorism, which had been used on the cover of Newsweek that week. >Kingpin seems to be the only acceptable term for drug bigshots, just as >vice overlord was once the only title journalists permitted for a leader of the prostitution racket. Disagreement rages among etymologists about the metaphoric origin.
One school holds that >kingpin comes from the sport of bowling. In the game of kayles, played with a set of ninepins, the tallest pin was called the >kingpin. In modern bowling, the >kingpin is the pin numbered five and is surrounded by the other pins.
Some dictionaries, even some bowling aficionados, have been using >headpin as a synonym, but this is confusing; the headpin is the pin numbered one, placed at the head of the triangle of pins.
If you are right-handed and hook your ball (thereby causing it to curve slightly to the left), the best place to aim is between the headpin (the No. 1 pin) and the pin to its right facing you (the No. 3 pin); this will allow the bowling ball to crash into the kingpin, directly behind the headpin, perhaps leading to a strike and waking the pin boy if the alley is not automated. (There will be mail on this paragraph from irate expert bowlers, who should be reminded that >bowler was the name for an opium smoker, taken from the bowl of the smoker's pipe. I am not without defenses.) Other lexicographers argue that >kingpin is akin to >kingbolt, which was in use as early as 1825 for the main bolt in a machine. The Oxford English Dictionary holds that this is the sense that led to meanings of ''that which holds together any complex system or arrangement'' and ''the most important or outstanding person in a party, organization, etc.,'' as first used in Harper's Weekly in 1867: ''His best position was as a batter. He was a 'King-pin' there.'' >Crack (originally, the word referred to a noise) is recent. The term for pellet-sized pieces of cocaine prepared for smoking was just becoming popular when the 1986 Slang and Jargon of Drugs and Drink was being printed, and was not included. The author, Richard A. Spears, professor of linguistics at Northwestern University, suggests a clue to the etymology in the entry for >crystal.
''What is now called >crack was known as >crystallized cocaine in the early medical days, and that hard form is still known as >rock. There's no definitive evidence,'' says Professor Spears, ''but it makes sense that >crack comes from the physical cracking of those rocks and crystals - literally, the crackling sound of those rocks as they are broken up.'' >Crackdown, the sudden introduction of severe discipline, is not all that old, either. The noun made its first appearance in a May 18, 1935, Washington Post story about punishment planned for liberals who wanted to abolish public-utility holding companies.
When pledging a crackdown on crack kingpins and narco-terrorists, zero-tolerant drug strategists are careful to refrain from promising a cure-all. ''There is no >magic bullet,'' said William J. Bennett, director of national drug-control policy. (He is called a >czar, and claims he calls his wife the >czarina and his children >czardines.) This was a reference to the German bacteriologist Paul Ehrlich, who was seeking a treatment for the scourge of syphilis and discovered the drug >arsphenamine, better known by its trademark name Salvarsan, or by the number 606, which was its numerical order in a series of experiments.
Dr. Ehrlich, who shared the Nobel Prize in 1908 for his work in immunology, is credited with having first used the term >magic bullet (in German, >Zauberkugel) to mean that ideal therapeutic agent that destroys unhealthy cells while sparing healthy tissues. The phrase was popularized in the United States in the title of the 1940 movie about his life, starring Edward G. Robinson. (A related phrase, >silver bullet, was a talisman thought to ward off werewolves and vampires, and was modified as a kind of trademark by the radio cowboy ''The Lone Ranger.'') Today, a >magic bullet is a cure without side effects, and can be applied to any headaches, from air pollution to the economy. However, the phrase is almost always used in the negative, in cautioning against over-optimism, as in ''This is no magic bullet, but . . . .''
President Bush characterized critics of his program as partisan >carpers who are intent on hiking taxes. That is an old noun now heard infrequently. Robert Browning used it in his 1868 ''The Ring and the Book'': ''>Carpers abound in this misjudging world.''
We are more familiar with the verb >carp, which means ''find fault, complain without reason''; this is from the Old Norse >karpa, ''to boast, brag,'' influenced by the Latin >carpere, ''to pluck, gather,'' which led to the sense of ''to slander'' as one snatches the reputation of another. The have-tux, will-cavil verb is not connected with the freshwater fish of the same name, first reported in the West by the sixth-century Roman statesman Cassiodorus as swimming in the Danube, and best known today for its use in the making of gefilte fish.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BUSINESS WEEK (54%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG TRAFFIC; DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; ENGLISH LANGUAGE CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); NARCOTERRORISM (78%); COCAINE (78%); LINGUISTICS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); OPIUM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (67%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (65%); POISONINGS (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); PESTICIDES (60%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (51%); 



576 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Page 43, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3816 words

HEADLINE: TOUGH TIMES FOR MR. LEVITTOWN

BYLINE: By Michael T. Kaufman; Michael T. Kaufman, deputy foreign editor of The Times, was for many years a foreign correspondent for this paper and most recently wrote for its metropolitan section.

 BODY:
THIS IS MOSTLY ABOUT LUCK. SPECIFICALLY IT is about how William J. Levitt, the builder who practically invented the modern suburbs, made his own good luck through a series of astute moves and enjoyed its rewards with gusto for nearly 50 years, and how after conspiring in his own bad luck, he is enduring the turn of fortune with grace in his old age. At 82, he fends off a plague of creditors, but he does not brood as he watches other, younger builders flaunt their wealth as he once did.
Once Levitt raised red Devon cattle and had Renoirs and Monets and Chagalls on his walls. Now his beloved yacht has been sold to an Arabian prince. His imposing mansion on New York's Long Island has gone to pay off back debts. Gone, too, are the Impressionist and Old Master paintings, the indoor tennis court, the large staff of servants, the Rolls-Royces and most of his wife's jewels. Only memory and pride remain. 
When asked about the current legal pressures he faces from the New York State Attorney General's office - the result of a series of soured construction deals that led to the misuse of family foundation funds and claims on unbuilt housing, which will cost him more than $10 million - Levitt becomes politely evasive. Yes, he says, the last decade has been hard, but he is digging his way out of all the problems. The claims against him, he insists, will soon be satisfied, and then something big should be happening.
SINCE HIS TROUBLES BEGAN IN THE 1970's, LEVITT HAS SHIED away from interviews, and though he agreed to talk with me he does not reveal exactly where he is living or working; we meet at the Long Island office of a friend. It occurs to me that he is keeping such details to himself either because his home is too modestly furnished, showing his decline to be greater than he admits, or because it is too lavishly appointed and might arouse the interest of the State Attorney General's office, which has been trying to determine his assets in its efforts to recover deposits paid by New York residents for Florida homes that remain unbuilt. Or, maybe he is simply trying to shield his third wife, Simone, to whom he has been married for 20 years, from intrusive publicity. Whatever, it is his right.
What Levitt prefers to talk about, and what he talks about with relish, is the past. It is clearly so much more pleasant to recall that long string of heady successes, when he built not just houses but entire communities, first on Long Island and then all over the United States. What he did back then, just after World War II, he lets you know, benefited the average person during a severe housing shortage. With those 800-square-feet houses that G.I.'s home from the war could buy for as little as $7,990, no money down and $65 a month, Levitt provided something basic and valuable for thousands of young families in need of shelter.
For the most part, though, his talk stops short of boastfulness. Carefully, Levitt gives credit to others, to his late brother, Alfred, whose designs provided the affordable housing sought by veterans, and to his father, Abraham, a lawyer, who founded the building firm of Levitt & Sons. He says he was lucky in his advisers and his friends, and he modestly claims that he never understood why others did not also build mass-produced communities because, after all, the whole idea was so simple. And yet, punctuating his remarks, he pointedly refers to the accolades he has received.
He notes that in its 50th anniversary issue, in 1983, Esquire magazine cited him among a handful of men and women who made a significant difference in the way American lives are now spent, and that this year The Wall Street Journal did the same as it took a retrospective look at his accomplishments. He is singularly proud that Levittown is mentioned in the Encyclopedia Britannica and that the United States Postal Service has named two post offices after him -Levittown, N.Y., and Levittown, Pa.
WE ARE DRIVING through that first Levittown, the one on Long Island where 17,311 nearly identical homes were built between 1947 and 1951. In the last few years, Levitt says, he comes here every few months just to look at the place. He drives out alone in his small Lincoln with the vanity plates that say ''Sir Wm,'' after an old nickname, but no one recognizes him. Yet in the fall of 1987, on the 40th anniversary of that first Levittown, the whole town turned out to give him a parade.
''I was embarassed, I suppose I even cried. It went on all day,'' he says in a voice that has been raspy ever since cancerous growths were removed from his vocal chords 30 years ago. ''You know,'' he adds as an afterthought, ''the 60,000 people of Levittown are much more my friends than the people of Park Avenue. Oh God, yes, more than most of those I entertained on my yacht.'' He says he learned this only after his troubles began.
As we move through the curved streets, this stocky, ruddy-faced, silver-haired octogenarian walks with the gait of a younger man, setting a steady pace as he explains what was revolutionary about this place. Virtually no housing had been built at all during the war years, and the pent-up demand was enormous. Returning G.I.'s were living in garages, in relatives' living rooms, in cars. Levitt had anticipated the housing shortage, and while he was still in the Seabees, the Navy's construction unit, in the Pacific, he had written to those administering the family building business to buy up as much land as they could from Long Island farmers. Even before the war he had acquired 200 acres from one potato farmer, with an option to buy 200 more each year. The price for the first parcel was $225 an acre, with options calling for increases of 10 percent each year thereafter. The last acreage that was acquired for Levittowns cost $3,500.
Levitt realized that in addition to land, potential buyers would need readily available credit. While the war was still going on, he lobbied Washington to provide mortgage guarantees of the kind eventually offered by the Federal Housing Administration and the Veterans Administration. Then he turned his attention to the task of building as many houses as possible in the shortest time. Here the firm of Levitt & Sons, which had never built more than 100 houses a year, pioneered as much as Henry Ford did in introducing the assembly line. ''For one thing, we introduced slab construction - building on a concrete slab with embedded radiant heating coils instead of having a cellar,'' says Levitt.
''Even more important,'' he continues, ''was our own assembly-line procedures. One team would lay the slabs, another would do the framing, Another the roofing, and so on. What it amounted to was a reversal of the Detroit assembly line. There, the car moved while the workers stayed at their stations. In the case of our houses, it was the workers who moved, doing the same jobs at different locations. To the best of my knowledge, no one had ever done that before.'' As many as 36 houses were being finished each day, and every one was occupied just as soon as the last workers left.
The selling, one of William Levitts' specialties - ''I wrote the copy for ads'' - was literally being done over the counter. ''People would come and pick the lot and the house color they wanted, and the girls would write up the contracts. I remember one day we closed on 1,100 houses in just five hours.''
We are momentarily lost on a pleasant, tree-shaded street. The man who built the place was trying to get his bearings, but he was more excited than flustered.
''Just look at this, it's incredible,'' he says. ''This is the instant slum that Lewis Mumford predicted.'' Levitt is quite obviously enjoying a last laugh on the social and architectural critic proved wrong, one whose contempt for Levittown as a classless, tasteless center of conformity had hurt its builder years ago.
Mumford was hardly alone in his criticism. For many sociologists and writers, the postwar sprawl of the suburbs was a virulent plague of conformity. To them it seemed ludicrous that people of limited means were invading the green belts that had been the preserves of the settled well-to-do. ''Even while you read this,'' wrote John Keats in ''The Crack in the Picture Window,'' his 1957 critical study of suburban life, ''miles of identical boxes are spreading like gangrene,'' adding that these houses were mistakes certain to corrode all the lives they touched. And when a popular song deplored the monotony of lives lived in ''little boxes made of ticky tacky,'' there was no doubt that the imagery drew from the Levittown idea.
Yet the houses are now different from each other, and it is hard to imagine that they all flowered from virtually identical models. Some have brick facades, some are covered in cedar shingle. Several have been remodeled in (Continued on Page 72) Tudor style. There are a few that show post-modern touches. All are well-maintained, and most have grown wings and ells and upper floors. Some are truly spacious. After some looking, we come upon a few that still resemble the basic Cape Cod model, and Levitt traces the original outline for me.
''The cheapest are now going for $175,000,'' says Levitt, ''and there are quite a number you could not touch for less than $275,000. And look at all the Cadillacs in the driveways.'' Then he points out the shrubs and trees which now shade the community with a green canopy. ''When we started there was nothing growing here that was longer than your thumb, and now look.''
In the first decade of Levittown, Levitt says conformity was the rule, but that was only because the young owners had little time and little money to make changes. ''At first they would finish the upstairs, putting in bedrooms to accommodate their growing families.'' More radical alterations came later. Levitt had always assumed that there would be changes in the look of his houses and that the whole idea had been to stimulate such growth by providing the unfinished and adaptable upper floor, but, he says, no one could have foreseen just how inventive the homeowners would become. ''I am the staunchest admirer of what has been done, and that is an unselfish and impersonal judgment because I had nothing to do with it. They made the alterations; at the most we gave them the opportunity.''
IF LEVITTOWN CHANGED the fortunes of the home buyers, it also changed those of William Levitt. He and his family had been successful builders, mostly on Long Island, before the war. They had purchased the old Vanderbilt estate, on which they built some 300 large homes designed by Alfred Levitt. They also began a shopping center in the same area. During the war, the firm built 750 units of housing in Norfolk, Va., for navy officers and 1,600 more for shipyard workers. When William Levitt came home from his Navy service, he lived in a 12-room apartment on Fifth Avenue. He was rich, (Continued on Page 90) but with the success of Levittown he was to become yet richer, and more powerful.
The profits on the original 17,311 Levittown houses came to about $1,000 each. Other successful projects followed. The Levittown developments in New Jersey and Pennsylvania were even larger than the one on Long Island. In Maryland, the firm acquired the Woodward horse-breeding estate near the town of Bowie and built a line of somewhat more substantial and differentiated houses. Soon after the project was finished, Bowie became the third-largest city in Maryland. Levitt built another community in Bayamon, Puerto Rico. His company also built in Florida, the Chicago suburbs and in Las Vegas. Levitt says he liked to live in New York City but did not want to work there because he knew that, at times, it was impossible to get work certificates there without paying bribes. There were reverses in his personal life. His first two marriages ended in divorce. His father and his brother died. According to family friends, there appears to have been some estrangement between him and his two sons, William and James. Meanwhile, not only his fortune but his influence kept growing. He was president and then chairman of the United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York. During Israel's Six-Day War, in 1967, he says he called a meeting of 100 prominent Jews and asked each to contribute $1 million anonymously. All of them gave. And he both donated and raised money for North Shore University Hospital where a Levitt Clinic had been established. He counted powerful men, like the late Senator Jacob K. Javits as intimates. He frequently testified in Washington on housing, and he fondly recalls a day when he bucked the construction lobby to support public housing. ''I told those senators that nobody could build any cheaper than I could, but that even I could not build cheaply enough to accommodate poor people and that the Government had to provide subsidized housing.''
Sometime in the late 1960's Levitt began promoting another idea, calling for private industry to initiate the construction of what he calls primary employment towns. ''It was valid then and it's even more valid now,'' he says, explaining that he formed his proposal after he realized the children and grandchildren of the people who had thrived in Levittowns could not now buy comparable shelter. The problem, he says, arose because virtually all accessible land around metropolitan areas has been exploited and the price of whatever may be left has been inflated so high as to make the construction of modestly priced units uneconomical. ''Seventy-five percent of the new housing is being built for the top 25 percent of the market,'' he says.
He points enthusiastically to his original report for private industry to sponsor, in conjunction with Government, the building of complete new cities in remote areas. As he envisions them, these would not be bedroom communities but complete economic entities where people would have a range of work. ''The key is employment,'' he says. ''I think at first they should be planned for populations of 50,000, though of course they would grow to different sizes.'' He has had this idea for many years and in the mid-60's he even considered buying a 30,000-acre tract in Indiana, 200 miles south of Chicago, for such a new city. But he came to realize that only with Government participation could such a scheme succeed.
''Sooner or later it is going to happen. There is no place else to go. People are gregarious and they want to cluster near mama and papa and familiar places, but there we have run out of ground.'' Instead of making ''our big cities bigger, we should be building new cities.'' If the process of metropolitan expansion is not stopped, he adds, ''we cannot hope to create for future generations a decent urban environment where the daily business of living -work, getting to work and leisure - can be simple, easy, pleasant and fun.''
BY THE LATE 1960'S, William Levitt was listed in Forbes magazine as one of the country's wealthiest people. He was building a 30-room mansion on a 68-acre estate in Mill Neck, Long Island, which in its design reflected the split in the way Levitt has tried to live: half the house was designed to be used for public entertaining. It was here that he and his wife, Simone, would hold charity balls and host dinners for as many as 50. The other half of the house was meant for informal family living. He applied the same principle to his yacht, La Belle Simone, named for the Frenchwoman he met in Rome and married in 1969. Mrs. Levitt recently signed on to provide an atmosphere similar to her own yachting parties for four of the Cunard Line's ''Connoisseur'' series of sailings.
The designer John Weitz, an old friend, recalls that in the 60's, Levitt was one of the greatest hosts he has ever known. ''I have been on many boats, but I count my three cruises on La Belle Simone as something incomparable. Bill had such ease and charm. He showed concern for his guests. He could never be accused of the kind of self-involved real-estatery we now have. I have seen him when there were 150 guests on that 240-foot yacht. One of the young Marlboroughs was snapping his fingers to the jazz. Everybody came to Bill.'' Weitz says that he now finds Levitt ''as graceful in adversity as he had been when times were flush.''
Richard M. Wasserman, a real estate investor who has known Levitt for nearly 29 years, many of them working as his right-hand man, says that the man he still regards as his friend and mentor has borne his reversal with characteristic courage and aplomb. ''For Bill, tomorrow is always going to be terrific. It was the same when they diagnosed the cancer and he went for the throat operation. He took it in stride. There was no whining.''
As to what actually led to Levitt's run of losses, Wasserman observed that it happened after Levitt had sold his business to the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation in 1968 and started various ventures abroad. ''Bill was always a big-picture man. He did not concern himself too much with details.'' The suggestion, delicately made, was that Levitt had overreached himself.
Levitt himself acknowledges that ambition contributed to the decline, but he claims that what happened to him ''contravened the law of averages,'' in that he heavily backed five losing projects in a row. ''We had nothing but successes from 1929 to about 1972 and then we had one failure after another. You know those sayings, 'Win one, lose one,' and 'You can't lose them all,' well, they turned out to be wrong.''
Under the terms of his agreement with I.T.T. Levitt was barred from building on his own or under his name in the United States for 10 years, but that still left the rest of the world. Using I.T.T. stock as collateral, he raised money for what was to be the first of his new ventures, a housing development in Nigeria. ''I realized pretty soon that it would be impossible to build and I got out.'' The next project was a huge housing development in Teheran. For several years he spent a great deal of time in Teheran overseeing construction. That effort capsized in the upheavals of the Islamic revolution, costing Levitt millions and forcing him to flee from mobs as the Shah was deposed. His next deal, was a project to build a suburban settlement in Venezuela; it was cancelled when dropping oil prices led the Caracas Government to cut back on mortgage guarantees.
Some people who worked with Levitt in the years of prosperity note that many of the close aides who had been able to temper his visionary enthusiasm had, with his blessing, set off on their own. In the old days his dreams had been put through tests by teams of meticulous accountants, architects and surveyors. After his sellout to I.T.T., there were fewer people around to raise questions. But Levitt contends that all of the deals had involved sound planning and that he never suffered a loss of confidence when they soured - ''I have never been depressed.''
IF NOT OBSESSED BY his turn of fortunes, Levitt is fascinated by the streak of ill luck that he traces to when he was persuaded to sell out to I.T.T.
''What happened was that I was approached by Felix Rohatyn of Lazard Freres with a proposal for selling to I.T.T.'' Levitt had known Rohatyn since the financier was a young man. Furthermore, he had known Harold S. Geneen, then head of I.T.T., since Levitt had delivered his advertising copy to him in the 1930's when Geneen was an ad taker for the old New York World Telegram.
''My initial gut feeling was against taking the offer,'' Levitt recalls. ''I remember that I had a meeting with Andre Meyer, the chairman of Lazard Freres, who asked me why did I want to sell. He told me, 'You've got a very fine outfit there.'
''I finally sell myself a bill of goods by saying that the reason I want to do it is that with the vast resources of I.T.T. we will then bring whatever know-how we have all over the world. Instead of doing $200- or $300- or $400-million worth of business a year, we'll do $2 billion, $3 billion, $4 billion, and everybody will benefit. I would be providing houses for working people everywhere.
''Looking back, I may have had delusions of some sort of grandeur about my place in history, except that my place in history seems rather assured since I suppose once you make the Encyclopedia Britannica, there's a permanent record.''
As a result of the sale, Levitt got $90 million in stock. He was 62 years old and he could have retired rich and comfortable. But he says, ''I couldn't retire, I wouldn't know what to do with myself.''
When the price of the I.T.T. stock he was using as collateral dropped, he was left owing more than he could pay. According to legal documents filed by the New York State Attorney General's office, Levitt began dipping into the funds of a family foundation to cover the shortfall. Eventually, as a result of action brought by the State, the foundation board was replaced and Levitt was obliged to repay the $5 million he had taken from the trust. That, apparently, was where much of the proceeds went from the sale of the yacht and of La Colline, the estate now facing subdivision and development by its new owner.
Another portion has gone to pay back people who put down deposits of $500 or more on homes that Levitt had advertised he was building in two projects on Florida's west coast. Some were built, but according to Elizabeth Bradford of the New York State Attorney General's office, 2,500 people had paid deposits and not received homes. Moreover, she says, instead of placing the money in escrow accounts, as his ads had promised, Levitt used the money for business and personal expenses. She says that as a result of a court order, about half of these people had been repaid in full; the remaining 1,200 will shortly be reimbursed for most of their deposits. The Attorney General's office has been awarded a claim on whatever money Levitt may win in a pending lawsuit against a Florida bank involved in selling land he owned at a price he alleges was well below its market value. Beyond that, Ms. Bradford says, Levitt appears to have no significant assets.
In the papers she has filed in the case, Ms. Bradford has regularly noted that the man she is dunning for funds has a great reputation for providing homes for so many ordinary people. But in her office in Mineola, not far from that original Levittown, she notes that the people for whom she is acting to recover the deposits are exactly the same kind of ordinary, hard working people, but in this case, ill-served.
Levitt refuses to discuss these cases in detail. He says simply that they will all be settled. Soon to turn 83, he is looking beyond the troubles of the past.
''You know,'' he tells me, ''I've got some plans for something in the Orlando area. I can't talk about it just yet but it could be very big.''

GRAPHIC: Photo of William J. Levitt.(pg. 42)(Fred R. Conrad);Levittown, L.I. in 1959.(pg. 44)(Carl Gossett)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LEVITTOWN (NY); FLORIDA

SUBJECT: HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); PAINTING (68%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: LEVITT, WILLIAM; LEVITT, WILLIAM (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); KAUFMAN, MICHAEL T



577 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 61, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 1989 words

HEADLINE: A Tune-Up For The Market

BYLINE: By Robert Heilbroner; Robert Heilbroner is the Norman Thomas Professor of Economics at the New School. His latest book, written with Peter Bernstein, is ''The Debt and the Deficit: False Alarms/Real Possibilities.''

 BODY:
THE ECONOMIC MOOD IS CHANGING. We see it in the public reaction to the Exxon Valdez oil spill and the company's initial skirt-lifting response. We find it again in the public and Congressional outrage over the sleaze in the savings and loan industry and the Pentagon scandals, not to mention Wall Street, where Masters of the Universe pull down eight-figure incomes while giving us a meaner and nastier business environment.
It is tempting to characterize all this as just a swing in the cycle of sentiment, a reversion from a pro-business period in which Lee Iacocca was the second most-admired man in the country, back to an old populist tradition in which businessmen were depicted with dollar signs on their vests and venture capitalists were called robber barons. But I see something much more important happening today; namely, a growing dissatisfaction with that tutelary deity of capitalism, the Market. By the Market, with a capital M, I do not mean the stock market, although what I shall have to say applies there with a vengeance. I mean, rather, that great, impersonal mechanism of unhindered supply and demand that we trustingly rely on to yield the best possible outcome for the nation. Unless my eyes and ears deceive, there is today a growing awareness that the Market gives a wide range of results, depending on circumstances. Sometimes its dispensations are very much in the public interest. Sometimes they are not. 
Consider, for example, the current disquiet about the stock market. Much of it clearly reflects a change in the public image of financiers. Twenty years ago, the words ''Wall Street'' conjured up Robert Lehman of Lehman Brothers, or Douglas Dillon of Dillon, Read, the very models of rectitude. Today, mention of Wall Street evokes the names of Ivan Boesky, the inside trader, and Michael Mil-ken, the junk-bond king. From this vantage point, our unease about the Street looks like another sign of our dismay at the decline in business values.
Yet there is another way of looking at the problem. The function of a stock market in a capitalist economy is to serve as a great conduit to direct savings into investment, a purpose it seemed to fulfill very well over much of the last century. But that is not the result that first strikes the eye in recent years. Wall Street has become a kind of casino where corporation shares are poker chips in an immense game of winner take all. Moreover, the game is played in such a way that the winner typically gets up from the table loaded down with i.o.u.'s.
Viewed this way, our concern has little to do with individual misbehavior. It has to do with hostile takeovers, leveraged buyouts and other such institutional convulsions. And it is no longer business ethics that lie at the center of our unease, but the suspicion that the stock market is working not to siphon savings into investment, but to restructure American business in ways we do not like.
Let me take a second case. Last winter, a truculent Frank Lorenzo, whose Texas Air had acquired Eastern Air Lines, was a staple of the front page and the television evening news as he battled with Eastern's unions over proposed pay cuts. Lorenzo's image in this contest was about as far from that of Lee Iacocca as one could get - on the face of it, another example of business misbehavior.
But once again there is another side to the story, reminiscent of the rise of the great trusts in the late 19th century. That was the period when competition became cannibalistic in industries with heavy fixed investments, such as steel, oil refining and railroads. Under the terrific pressure generated by their need to meet the costs of their fixed capital, companies swallowed one another in the hope of eventually achieving a monopolistic position. To avoid that outcome, Congress began to ''regulate'' the workings of the Market in industries susceptible to cannibalism, first the railroads in 1887, eventually the airlines in 1938.
From this perspective, the Eastern Air Lines struggle is exactly what we should have expected. The airlines were deregulated in 1978 to enable competition to shake up a complacent industry. What deregulation brought was a replay of the railroad and steel and oil refinery wars, as competition pushed Pan Am and Braniff, American and United and Delta, into 19th-century-style combat - with 19th-century outcomes. Lacking Government regulation, cutthroat competition over fares and routes led to the strong devouring the weak.
Consider the Exxon Valdez disaster and, since then, the oil spills in the Delaware River and Narragansett Bay. Of course there is reason to criticize the behavior of the oil companies. But it is the Market that drives Exxon and its competitors to ship oil in very large tankers. This is good for consumers, who want the cheapest possible gasoline. But as we have now learned many times, and will no doubt have to learn many more times, it is not good for people who live along the shoreline near oil tanker shipping lanes, or who earn their living from the sea. Thus the Market serves some interests well, but others very badly. BECAUSE WE LIVE AT A TIME when history is tilting so dramatically in favor of market economies over planned economies - witness the Soviet Union and the Eastern European nations - it seems near blasphemy to suggest that free markets do not always bring about the best of all possible worlds, and that regulation, which is after all a form of planning, may sometimes make markets work better.
At the risk of appearing blasphemous, then, let me suggest a few principles about the way markets work. 1. Markets are driven by the self-interest of each participant and policed by competition, buyers and sellers vying with each other. This is obviously not the way of planning, which listens to the voice of government. That is not to say, however, that markets have nothing in common with planning. 2. In fact, both are instruments of social policy. More specifically, they represent ways of coordinating the activities of production and distribution that we call the economy. Each way has its advantages and disadvantages. These days we tend to stress the advantages of the Market, but there are things to be said for planning. We use planning to achieve massive economic rearrangements in a hurry; we wage war by planning; an underdeveloped nation uses planning to get off dead center. 3. Because the Market is a social instrument, it cannot be completely ''free.'' All markets rest on law, which establishes boundaries and restrictions and Do Not Enter signs. The market system is not a license to do with property whatever its owner wishes, nor to go after business in any way that may succeed. The only industry that knows no bounds or rules is the illicit drug trade, where the market process resembles what Thomas Hobbes called the ''Warre of Each Against.'' He described life under those conditions as ''Nasty, Brutish and Short.'' 4. Because markets, unlike plans, are blinkered to follow the arrow of economic advantage, some say their workings should only be judged by that criterion. ''Don't bother me with your corporate restructuring lectures,'' says the market enthusiast. ''The question is, does it pay?'' Ditto on airline competition and tanker transport. I do not raise this criterion to scoff at it. Profitability is the way the Market rewards efficiency, and efficiency makes it possible to avoid much of the bureaucratic sclerosis that has been the fatal illness of planning. 5. But efficiency isn't everything. As economists never weary of telling us, the Market is a marvelous means of coordinating economic activity, but as they tell us less frequently, its triumphs are sometimes bought at the price of social carelessness or even destructiveness. Carelessness (Continued on Page 76) because the Market has a keen ear for private wants, but a deaf ear for public needs; the occasional destructiveness because the Market has no way of judging the consequences of its deafness. Thus the Market gives us magnificent metropolises in which the air cannot be breathed, a menu of television entertainments that caters to the lowest common denominator of our culture, distributions of income from occupation to occupation, as well as from top to bottom, that violate our sense of decency. W HAT TO DO? THE ANSWER, of course, is to plan. I do not mean to abandon self-interest and competition as our economic mainsprings. I do not mean to create a central agency authorized to impose its goals on all branches of the economy. What I do mean is that we should modify the markets' boundaries, restrictions and Do Not Enter signs.
There are many ways of doing this. One of them is by direct government intervention. If oil spills prove one day to be too destructive to the environment, we can outlaw vessels of dangerously large capacity or inadequate design. Whatever we do about oil, it is certain that the fragility of the environment will require direct intervention on many fronts. President Bush's recent proposals for tightening the emissions standards on automobiles are one example.
Is this planning? Of course it is, although one will never read that word on our President's lips. Changing emissions standards impose a political decision on the range of permissible private economic activity. But it is not an infringement on the Market. It does not take away the profit motive or the disciplinary force of competition. It simply redraws the rules within which the Market operates in one particular area, in order to give us transportation but not smog.
Intervention of this direct kind is by no means the only approach. In the case of the stock market, the most likely means of closing down the casino is by revising the tax laws that permit the winner's i.o.u.'s to become the basis for large tax deductions. For takeover artists, that would change the calculus of profitability, discouraging merger mania without altering the essential workings of the stock market itself.
Redesigning the Market to improve its social performance does not only imply a tightening of its boundaries and constraints. Some of the things the Market has given us seem likely to require a loosening of existing rules. Consider the inhibitions under which banking operates. American banks are not to be found among the world's top 10 because our laws forbid nationwide banking establishments. As long as our banks are hobbled by outdated regulations, American finance will be hard put to compete effectively on the world market.
The same kind of reasoning can be applied to the relative performance of the United States economy and that of its two great rivals, Japan and the European Economic Community. By general consent, we are falling behind.
One reason for this sorry performance is that American companies cannot pool their expertise, or their collective strategies, as effectively as their Japanese and European counterparts, largely because of antitrust laws. There was a time when I was in favor of antitrust laws, period. They prevented some of the potential excesses of the Market. I now favor antitrust laws, comma. Some of them clearly need rethinking in the light of the new realities of global competition.
IF I READ THE AMERICAN mood correctly, this is what the present anti-business sentiment is actually about. We are not content with what our market economy is giving us. Some of that unhappiness reflects ill-thought-out, wasteful government programs. But most of the public's discontents seem to be focused on the private sector.
The remedy is not to abandon the Market, with a capital M. It is to seek changes in the structure of many markets with small m's. Such changes, ideally, will assert the essential function of planning - to guide the economy where we want it to go, while still retaining self-interest as the motor of the Market, and competition as its taskmaster.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (66%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY DEREGULATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (87%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); ETHICS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); BONDS (76%); BUSINESS ETHICS (73%); OIL SPILLS (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); POKER (63%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (60%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: HEILBRONER, ROBERT L (PROF) LIDO ANTHONY 'LEE' IACOCCA (57%); 



578 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 25, Column 2; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 3620 words

HEADLINE: The Dutch Find New Treats In America

BYLINE: By Peter Applebome; Peter Applebome is Atlanta bureau chief of The New York Times.

 BODY:
Atlanta-based architect who introduced the atrium to the modern hotel. Portman is developing a 100-acre complex of office towers, hotels and shops 18 miles from the hurly-burly of downtown Atlanta and hoped to whet the Dutch investor's appetite.
Escorted through the wooded site as a visiting sultan, Fentener van Vlissingen clucked approvingly while trading real estate shoptalk with his hosts. After sitting through a reverent marketing presentation - ''Our aspiration is to bring the flair of the great European cities to suburban America . . . '' - he took his leave to go to the airport. So far, no deal has materialized.
The next stop on his agenda was Tulsa, Okla., to attend a board meeting of the Memorex-Telex Corporation, in which Noro is a major investor. Then, after a detour to Bermuda to celebrate his 50th birthday, and a layover in Curacao, the Netherlands Antilles, where Noro Group is incorporated, Fentener van Vlissingen headed back to the Netherlands, leaving Noro-U.S. in the care of his American deputies. 
The peregrinations of Fentener van Vlissingen reflect an intriguing, little-noticed aspect of the growing torrent of direct foreign investment in the United States, which last year totaled $329 billion. For the better part of this decade, Dutch investors had been second only to the British in their ownership of American business concerns and real estate. But last year, Japanese investors elbowed the Dutch into third place in the Commerce Department's ranking.
LMOST FROM THEIR BEGINNINGS 400 years ago as a tiny nation partly reclaimed from the sea, the Dutch have been traders, by aptitude and by necessity. In a characteristically prudent bargain struck in 1626, Peter Minuit, director general of the Dutch West India Company, bought Manhattan from its native Indians for trinkets worth $24. Thirty-eight years later, the Dutch were forced to surrender the island to the British.
''I think the Dutch have been trying to buy Manhattan back piece by piece,'' says Vincent J. Everts, a 30-year-old Netherlander who runs Atlanta-based CYCO International, the distribution arm of a Dutch software company.
The pattern of Dutch investment in the United States - which last year stood at $49 billion -evolved over three centuries from initial purchases of agricultural land. The Dutch moved into American petroleum operations and light manufacturing in the early 1900's and then, after World War II, into mining, chemicals, food and banking. During the surge of foreign investment starting in the mid-1970's, the Dutch emphasis tilted toward retailing, insurance and real estate.
''Do you realize what a wealthy country Holland is?'' asks Herman A. Vonhof, president of Atlanta-based Grand Cypress Resort Inc., a real estate development arm of P.G.G.M., the $16 billion pension fund for health care workers in the Netherlands. ''The Dutch pension funds alone have $150 billion in total assets. We have only 15 million people. We have to invest it somewhere.''
Grand Cypress has built a 1,500-acre resort in Orlando, Fla. Nine years ago, Vonhof started buying land near Disney World at what he describes as ''a very attractive price.''
According to the Netherlands Chamber of Commerce in the United States, some 750 Dutch-owned businesses are operating in this country. They include such giants as Philips, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and the Anglo-Dutch consortia, Royal Dutch/ Shell Group and Unilever. KLM recently invested $400 million for a 10 percent stake in a leveraged buyout of NWA, the holding company for Northwest Airlines. Unilever has been on a buying binge in the field of personal products, witness its $3.1 billion takeover of Chesebrough-Pond's and its $1.5 billion purchase of Faberge, parent of Elizabeth Arden.
Apart from such visible presences, 61 percent of the Dutch companies have revenues of less than $250 million, and their characteristic style of doing business is to adopt a low profile.
The penchant for anonymity, bolstered by a compulsion to escape onerous tax burdens at home, has long shaped the form of Dutch overseas investment. Prior to the recent wave of tax reforms in the United States, Dutch investors were able to repatriate earnings from their American properties practically intact by taking advantage of separate tax treaties the United States had with the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles.
The former Dutch colony in the Caribbean, now federated with the mother country as an independent member of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, has been a tax haven for flight capital from all over the world. No reliable figures exist as to the national origins of the funds deposited there, but the Dutch Government has granted special tax privileges to dividends distributed by Antillean corporations to Netherlands-based holding companies.
Although more than two-thirds of the Dutch-owned companies have their United States headquarters on the East Coast, the last two decades have seen a migration to the Sunbelt: 27 percent have operations in California, Texas and Florida. In the 1980's, the single most popular site for Dutch corporate bases has been Georgia. The availability of a nonunion labor force has been one attraction. Another is the growing importance of Atlanta as a financial hub of the Southeast with its own international airport. KLM's inauguration of direct service between Amsterdam and Atlanta in March 1981 provided a crucial spur for Dutch investors in the region.
''When I looked at developments in the financial and service industries in the Northeast and in Los Angeles, I saw nothing comparable in the South,'' says Fentener van Vlissingen, his fluent English overlaid with the rounded vowels of a Dutch inflection. ''Seeing how the area of the Southeast was growing, the obvious place to be was Atlanta.''
Among the 85 Dutch companies now operating in Atlanta are Algemene Bank Nederland, the largest Dutch bank, and Nationale-Nederlanden, the No. 1 insurance company in the Netherlands, which owns Georgia U. S. Corporation, a $3 billion insurance and financial services company.
The biggest splash the Dutch have made in Atlanta is the $285 million project called 191 Peachtree, a 52-story tower designed by John Burgee and Philip Johnson. The project, which is being developed by the Dutch Institutional Holding Company, another arm of the pension fund for health care workers, is the first office tower to be built in downtown Atlanta in almost a decade.
''We had a lot of people say, 'My God, what are you doing, Atlanta's overbuilt,' '' says Onno Breur, the holding company's vice president for corporate development. ''But if you analyzed the submarkets, there was a very good opportunity. We're cautious, but we're fairly entrepreneurial.''
CALVINIST TRADITION AND A PUNI-tive tax system have made the Dutch inordinately private and modest about their personal finances. The billionaire Fentener van Vlissingen family is less than overjoyed to hear themselves referred to as the Rockefellers of the Netherlands, however apt the comparison may be.
Their fortune derives from SHV Holdings, a Utrecht-based energy and wholesale consumer goods behemoth with 1988 assets of $3.6 billion. It is the second largest private company in the Netherlands.
The family business, trading coal from German mines, originated in Amsterdam in the 18th century and was later fortified by marriage with the van Beuningens, coal traders from Rotterdam.
After World War I, Frederik H. Fentener van Vlissingen, grandfather of John, poured some of SHV's profits from coal into a consortium that helped finance such major industrial projects as the AKZO chemical company, the Fokker aircraft company and KLM.
SHV moved into oil after World War II. Pursuing a strategy of acquiring substantial interests in public companies to be able to tap the equity markets for expansion capital, SHV currently controls Calor, Britain's largest liquid petroleum gas retailer, and Primagaz, the largest L.P.G. company in France.
In the United States, SHV has interests in energy and scrap metal; branches of its Makro chain of warehouse-club supermarkets are operated jointly with K Mart.
Despite its size, SHV is still very much a family enterprise. Paul Fentener van Vlissingen, 48, is president. His two brothers, Frederik, 56, head of Flint Holding, an Amsterdam investment firm, and John, Noro's chairman, are directors. They meet monthly with Paul to plot SHV's course.
''I always had the vision of starting a business, because it's something our family has always done,'' says John Fentener van Vlissingen. ''Maybe it's something that tickles us.'' Rather than simply cast his lot with SHV, he built his own company, Noro, from a base in the United States. But according to family tradition, he first had to prove himself by working for outsiders. After finishing his studies in business administration at the London School of Economics in 1959, he trained at several European investment banks and at Brown Brothers, Harriman in New York, then joined Pierson, Heldring & Pierson, a Dutch merchant bank.
On travels throughout the United States for Pierson starting in 1973, Fentener van Vlissingen spotted what he thought were exceptional values in depressed real estate, particularly in the South. In 1975, when Atlanta was in the midst of its worst business downturn in decades, he tapped 12 Dutch friends to raise $1.2 million to buy the National Data Building, an 81,000-square-foot office building in the heart of the city's commercial corridor. The purchase price was $3.6 million; Noro now values the building at $7.2 million. Thus was born Noro-Sunbelt N.V., a closed-end real estate fund chartered in Curacao, the linchpin of what has become a galaxy of dozens of investment partnerships of Dutch and other European individuals and institutions.
During the next five years, while continuing at Pierson, Heldring as director of its securities and investments division, Fentener van Vlissingen made other real estate acquisitions for Noro in Georgia, Florida, Alabama, South Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Texas and California.
In 1979, Noro entered into discussions with the Rockefeller family about buying the Celanese and the Time-Life buildings in Manhattan. But Fentener van Vlissingen was unable to raise enough money. ''If we could have afforded it, we would have done it,'' he says. ''It was a very exciting time to get into that market.'' The Celanese building went to another Dutch investor, the Shell Pension Fund. SEATED AT A MAHOGANY conference table in the Atlanta offices of Noro-U.S. one afternoon last winter, Fentener van Vlissingen described the cautious approach that has made him and many other Dutch investors successful in the United States. ''We're not going into areas we would not be familiar with,'' he said, a picture of propriety in a black pinstriped suit, muted crimson-striped shirt and gold watch with two square faces set six hours apart. ''Everything is related to real estate and to the service industry,'' he said.
In 1980, Fentener van Vlissingen left Pierson, Heldring to devote himself wholly to Noro. He opened an office in Atlanta with a staff of six Americans and, while intensifying his commitment to real estate in the Southeast, extended his reach to North Carolina, New Mexico and Colorado. During the last nine years, Noro's United States real estate portfolio has grown to more than $1 billion worth of properties in 12 states, mostly warehouses, office buildings and shopping centers.
Aware of the cyclical swings of the energy business, Fentener van Vlissingen has been leery of being overcommitted in areas dependent on that sector of the economy. Long-term leases on the three Dallas properties in its portfolio gave Noro some protection from the real estate debacle in Texas precipitated by the collapse of oil prices in the mid-80's.
''We didn't see it coming, but the moment we saw it, we went out,'' he says. ''We had a building in Houston. Out. A building in downtown Denver. Out. We've always been good at cutting our losses.'' When the Atlanta market showed signs of cooling down a few years ago, Noro began cashing in on some of its properties. In 1988, Fentener van Vlissingen picked up a bargain in a Fort Worth office building, but he is wary of getting back into Texas too early.
In the last two years, he has sighted opportunity in the District of Columbia. ''I like Washington,'' he says, ''because the limits placed on the height of buildings means there won't be overbuilding, and so competition is limited, too.'' Philadelphia also strikes him as reasonably priced.
The most successful real estate investments for Noro in the United States thus far have been shopping centers and strip malls in suburban locales. But, prodded by its institutional clients, Noro has moved from middle-sized office buildings to larger and larger projects such as the renovation of the Warner Theater Building in Washington and the Wilshire Palisades office building in Santa Monica, Calif. Noro's biggest project to date is a mixed-use development of 450 acres adjacent to Hartsfield International Airport, a joint venture with the Webb Company of Lexington, Ky.
Following a practice typical of other Dutch overseas investors, Fentener van Vlissingen develops close relationships with American partners of proven accomplishment such as Trammell Crow, the wide-ranging Texan with whom Noro developed the Galleria complex in suburban north Atlanta. The Dutch entrepreneur is not concerned with having his name on the buildings. His emphasis is on money, not monuments.
With wealth accumulated over generations, Dutch investment tradition calls for a long-term perspective and conservative financing. Noro real estate funds are structured for 12 to 15 years; properties tend to be only 40 to 50 percent leveraged.
Last year, Noro acquired Park 'n Fly, the largest operator of privately owned parking lots adjacent to air-ports in the United States. ''You're getting a good return on the land you've bought,'' says Fentener van Vlissingen. ''And generally, land near an airport increases in value. So you've got the best of all worlds.'' Waxing enthusiastic about the deal, which represents a new strategy to buy and operate companies rather than simply taking investment positions, he says, ''We plan to double our locations in three years.''
From a real estate core, Noro's activities fanned out to such related financial services as mortgage brokerage, banking and venture capital. In 1986, with disaster looming over the thrift industry, Noro bought the Home Federal Savings and Loan Association of Atlanta, which remains moderately profitable. Now Fentener van Vlissingen is on the lookout for good buys in other Georgia savings institutions.
Ten years ago, he set up his first venture capital fund for investing in the United States. Currently, Noro has $150 million invested through five specialized funds covering a range of industries from high technology to insurance, retailing and TV and radio stations. Their American managers are given a free rein. ''John likes to pick people he wants to be in business with and then lets them go about their business,'' says Charles D. Moseley Jr., an Atlanta venture capitalist who (Continued on Page 54) manages the two funds that are open to American as well as European investors.
''Where are the borders between risk and nonrisk?'' Fentener van Vlissingen muses. ''We are open for calculated risk, but not unlimited risk. You will not find many major failures among Dutch investors in this country. That is not how they operate.'' S TILL, EVEN THE DUTCH don't bat a thousand. In 1987, Fentener van Vlissingen acquired World Travel Advisors, now the nation's 13th-largest travel agency, with offices in Atlanta, Orlando and Washington.
At a meeting in February, Fentener van Vlissingen listened to World Travel executives describe a plan to expand their client base by entering the travel-club business.
One month later, the program of discounted package tours christened ''Grand Style Vacations'' racked up a whopping loss in the test marketing stage. The wholesale packager had booked the tours on Eastern Air Lines. When a strike was called on March 4, World Travel had nothing to sell. Says Gary E. Coton, president of World Travel Advisors, ''We spent $1.6 million to learn a good lesson.'' The agency has been reviving the idea with another partner.
Six weeks ago, Fentener van Vlissingen returned to the United States for a marathon monthlong tour that saw him crisscrossing the country, with a side excursion to Toronto.
On a steamy August afternoon, he sat in the air-conditioned comfort of the conference room at Noro-U.S., nursing a Coke and chatting with Michael R. Raffety, head of Noro's American real estate ventures, and with H. James Griggs, chairman of F.I.A. Associates of Sacramento. Griggs's firm manages $2.1 billion in public pension funds. Noro is participating in a loan for an office building in Baltimore, which is backed by an F.I.A. client.
Griggs is interested in branching into European ventures. Noro is considering expanding to invest for Americans in Europe. The talk turned into an amiable dance, half attuned to issues of international trade, half to specific Noro projects.
In 1984, sensing that Europe was on the verge of an economic resurgence, Fentener van Vlissingen began investing intensively in real estate, principally commercial buildings in London and Glasgow, residential projects in Belgium and resort properties in France and Spain. He also started several funds that take substantive positions in companies listed on European stock exchanges, principally the Amsterdam bourse.
''We've almost completed a deal that would give us control of 5 to 7 percent of the trading on the Amsterdam exchange,'' Fentener van Vlissingen announced.
''That might make some people nervous,'' said Griggs genially.
''I don't want to make people nervous,'' his Dutch host replied in a matter-of-fact tone. ''Why should I?''
Why indeed? The Dutch can be notoriously tough bargainers, but the sheer predatory zeal of American deal making of the 80's is not their style. Fentener van Vlissingen is convinced that the leveraged buyout craze is about to hit Europe, and he expects to be a major player. But he thinks it will be a more prudent, less leveraged game than the one played in the United States.
''I don't want to buy companies, finance them for 89 percent and sack a lot of people or sell off all the parts,'' he says. ''It's not that I'm a sweet guy. A sweet guy will not survive in business. If we go in for leveraged buyouts, it would be based on a far stronger partnership and a far stronger financial structure.''
Similarly, though he handles investments for some 700 individuals and 60 institutions - he allows that a ''substantial'' amount of the assets under management belong to him and his relatives - Fentener van Vlissingen still insists on interviewing every prospective client.
''I want to make certain an investor thinks along the same lines I do,'' he says. ''If I get a feeling someone is a short-term investor who wants out after one year, or is highly leveraged, we don't want him.''
Fentener van Vlissingen spends half his time traveling to oversee his holdings; he visits Atlanta three or four times a year. Despite his Dutch reserve, he fits well into Atlanta, where he keeps a condominium furnished with fine Dutch porcelains and paintings. His Swiss wife, the former Countess Marine Michelle de Pourtales, often accompanies him on his American trips. The brass dedication plaque in the lobby of Noro headquarters bears the names of their children: Nicole, 25; Robert, 23, a former student at Emory University in Atlanta, and Brigitte, 21.
In 1985 Noro sponsored a major exhibition of Dutch painting at the High Museum of Art. It's all part of the higher profile Fentener van Vlissingen realizes might be advantageous for someone who wants to attract American investors to his funds.
''In America, to show one is a success is very important,'' he says. ''In Holland, it's the last thing people want to do.''
Recently, Fentener van Vlissingen has been scouting in Asia. He has opened a Noro office in Singapore and is planning several real estate and venture capital funds for Japan, Korea, Thailand, Indonesia and Hong Kong.
But the United States remains the single largest investment area for Noro, representing half of its total assets. Of concern, though, are changes in the United States tax codes that, together with the abrogation of the favorable treaty with the Netherlands Antilles in 1987, have whittled away many of the advantages for Dutch investors. And the Treasury Department is looking to tighten up the treaty with the Netherlands.
There has been some speculation that the changes may inhibit future Dutch investment in the United States. Speaking for Noro, Fentener van Vlissingen says he does not expect a dramatic shift other than that caused by more attractive opportunities elsewhere in the world. ''Everyone in Europe with a certain amount of wealth,'' he says, making clear he is talking about millions, ''should have part of it invested in America. It's by far the largest free enterprise country in the world.''
The question for him, he says, ''is how do I structure it in the most tax- efficient way? If they take away Curacao, then I do something else. Start an Inc. - a corporation. Or start whatever. It's not something that bothers me much.''
Over the centuries, the Dutch have learned to adapt. Says Fentener van Vlissingen, ''If the treaty gets changed, we change with the treaty.''

CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An illustration on Sept. 24 in The Business World, part 2 of The Times Magazine, with an article about German and Japanese investment in the United States, showed the West German flag upside down. The top stripe should be black, the middle stripe red and the bottom stripe gold.

GRAPHIC: drawing; graph of foreign direct investment in U.S.; photos of Vincent Everts; John Fentener Van Vlissingen (Al Clayton); Onno Breur (Al Clayton); Herman Vonhof

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); NETHERLANDS (92%); NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TELEX CORP (70%); WEST INDIA CO OF MERCHANT BANKERS LTD (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORO (DUTCH CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NETHERLANDS; ATLANTA (GA)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER; FENTENER VAN VLISSINGEN, JOHN A DAVID DAVIS (74%); 



579 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 64, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 3718 words

HEADLINE: Everybody Loves Solar Energy, But...

BYLINE: By Michael J. Weiss; Michael J. Weiss, a writer based in Washington, is the author of ''The Clustering of America.''

 BODY:
ON A SUMMER MORNING, just before dawn, the sky turns a coppery gold above the Mojave Desert, a 15,000-square-mile expanse of sand and sagebrush in southern California. In the handful of communities clinging to the two-lane highways crisscrossing the desert, nothing breaks the quiet except for the occasional trucker pulling over at a dusty drive-in.
But at Kramer Junction, 150 miles from Los Angeles, the landscape awakens abruptly. As the first rays of light stretch across the arid plain, 600,000 curved glass mirrors flip over to face the sun. Within moments, the synthetic oil flowing through tubes suspended over the shimmering mirrors reaches 735 degrees Fahrenheit, the heat transforms water to steam and generators are producing 194 megawatts of electricity for Southern California (SoCal) Edison - enough power to serve 270,000 residential customers. So begins another day for Luz International Ltd., whose solar fields generate an estimated 90 percent of the world's solar power.
Luz (rhymes with ''fuse'') has built seven solar electric-generating systems, known as SEGS. While Luz's plants generate only 1 percent of SoCal Edison's power, they provide that electricity when it is most needed: during the hottest part of the day, when air-conditioning demand reaches its peak. 
Since its first SEGS went on line in 1984, Luz's cost for producing a kilowatt hour of electricity has dropped from 24 cents to 12 cents - less than the cost of energy from the newest nuclear plants now in operation. Last April, the company broke ground on a $1.2 billion expansion that is expected to triple Luz's electricity output while dropping the cost to about 8 cents per kilowatt hour, nearly competitive with conventional coal- and oil-fueled plants.
More than a decade after the Arab oil embargo convinced Americans of the need for alternative sources of energy, cost-competitive solar power is finally reaching the marketplace. And not a moment too soon. Acid rain, global warming and this year's plague of oil spills emphasize the dangers of relying on coal- and oil-fueled power plants. In the South Coast Basin, which includes Los Angeles, the ground-level cloud of ozone has become so hazardous that state officials have passed a plan to restrict everything from chemical factories to gas-powered lawn mowers to charcoal lighter fluid.
Yet a cloud also hangs over the future of Luz. The growth of the company -which had revenues of $153 million last year, mostly from the construction and sale of solar plants - has been made possible in large part by an array of Federal and state tax incentives and favorable government regulations. Now the last of the tax breaks is scheduled to run out in December. Given the current, relatively low prices of oil and natural gas, which together in 1988 generated 44 percent of California's electricity, it remains to be seen whether utilities and investors will continue to smile upon Luz.
In 1977, announcing his determination to break the nation's dependence on imported oil, President Carter called for a 20 percent reliance on renewable energy resources by the year 2000. He called it ''the moral equivalent of war.'' His Administration initiated a 40 percent residential energy conservation tax credit and a 15 percent commercial tax credit for renewable energy projects. In a symbolic gesture, Carter even installed solar hot-water panels atop the White House.
The following year, Congress passed the landmark Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA), which required utilities to provide a market for qualifying independent producers of electricity. The measure dictated that utilities must buy energy from these producers at a reasonable rate based on ''avoided costs'' - the amount of money the utility would otherwise pay to increase production using fuels such as natural gas or oil and building traditional plants. Independent solar producers were to be exempt from local public utility commission rate regulations as long as they met certain qualifications; plants, for example, could be no more than 30 megawatts in size.
The result of these benevolent policies was a market free-for-all. Solar panels were manufactured for the small-scale heating of water in homes and factories. Companies began producing photovoltaic cells - which convert sunlight directly into electricity by means of silicon wafers - for everything from hand-held calculators to wristwatches. And solar-thermal plants were designed to produce electricity for businesses and utilities.
But the fledgling industry also produced its share of lemons. Large corporations, taking advantage of new Government research funds, produced demonstration pro-jects that ultimately proved unsuccessful. ''A lot of Fortune 500 companies built dishes and windmills that were 10 times larger than the market could bear,'' says Scott Sklar, the executive director of the Solar Energy Industries Association. ''All over the country, they left these idols, these statues of great ideas, that wasted a lot of money.'' IN MORE WAYS THAN one, Luz was an exception. Founded by Arnold Goldman, a 46-year-old, bearded and cerebral electrical engineer, it began life without Government research and development funds, and its research base was in Israel. Raised in Providence, R.I., and the recipient of a master's degree from the University of Southern California, Goldman went to work at Litton Industries in 1967. Two years later, he left to help form Lexitron, which eventually produced one of the first word processors.
In 1977, Raytheon acquired Lexitron, and Goldman dropped out to write a book with a modest topic: the meaning of life. For years, he had been filling notebooks with his thoughts on ''holism,'' which he defines as ''the quest to make everyday life holy.'' With more than a million dollars in proceeds from the sale of his company and Los Angeles home, Goldman moved his family to Israel to finish his work in progress.
Goldman titled his book ''A Working Paper on Project Luz,'' taking the name Luz from the site in the Bible where Jacob dreamed that angels traveled between heaven and earth. In 1979, Goldman founded a company he called Independent Household Products. ''I envisioned the company starting cities which would be energized by solar projects,'' he explains by telephone from his home in Jerusalem. But he soon dropped the idea for lack of converts. ''It was too bold and too broad to explain to people,'' he says. Scaling down his ambitions, he changed his company's name to Luz International, and set about formulating a business plan for the manufacture of solar-power plants.
Then Goldman met Patrick Francois, a soft-spoken Frenchman, now 46, with a remarkable resemblance to the actor Robert Vaughn. Francois, who had operated a textile-manufacturing company in Paris, had moved to Israel in 1970 and launched an apparel-manufacturing company, Magoo Ltd. He eventually built it into a $3 million enterprise, employing up to 150 workers. In 1979, he sold out to become a consultant, advising foreigners on investments in Israel.
Francois at first regarded Goldman as ''a kind of mad scientist,'' he says. ''He started telling me about these hundreds of millions of dollars that we could make selling solar electricity, and my first reaction was, 'Is this guy crazy?' '' But, after reviewing Goldman's business plan, Francois asked to join the company.
Goldman and Francois each put up $100,000, and they raised $950,000 for the first round of equity in the company, much of it from people who had backed Lexitron. Although both founders held Israeli citizenship, and their manufacturing and research operations were based in Jerusalem, in 1979 they incorporated Luz in California, partly because of the receptive regulatory environment but also because of their concern about possible anti-Israeli sentiment. ''Some investors are worried about tax issues and currency flow,'' Goldman explains. ''Others are just sensitive to the Arab boycott.''
At first, Goldman and Francois targeted small American companies such as textile mills that required steam for manufacturing. But most potential customers didn't want to take the risk. ''The market just wasn't there,'' Goldman says. ''We had some very tough times.'' Between 1979 and 1983, Luz racked up losses of $13.5 million, a skid that took a serious toll on Goldman. At age 39, he suffered a heart attack.
Meanwhile, the price of domestic oil had jumped from almost $13 a barrel to over $26, making solar power far more attractive to utilities. Goldman and Francois decided to shift gears. In 1983, they landed Southern California Edison.
Luz received a 30-year contract, under which the price paid for power from its SEGS I was guaranteed for a decade. SoCal Edison also granted the company a long-term lease on property in Daggett, Calif. Luz would manufacture most of the necessary equipment in Israel, find limited partners to invest in building the plant and handle construction. In return for operating the finished facility, the company would receive 1 percent of revenues.
Goldman and Francois were soon splitting their time between Israel, where they were manufacturing Luz's solar designs, and California, where they were looking for potential investors. Luz would hold less than 1 percent equity. They needed $62 million to build SEGS I. Since the plant would be producing power at a cost of 24 cents a kilowatt, and SoCal Edison was obligated to buy it for considerably less (payments for the first five years have averaged 13.9 cents a kilowatt hour), they could hardly ballyhoo profitability. What they had to sell were tax breaks.
In 1983, the Federal Government was offering SEGS backers 25 percent investment and energy tax credits. The state of California allowed a 13.5 percent energy tax credit. Francois explained that because of these credits, which could be written off against income in the first year, and because of accelerated depreciation that could be spread over five years, SEGS I investors could expect a 15 percent annual return on every dollar invested. ''Investors had potential risks if the system did not perform reasonably well,'' says Paul Salvodelli, Luz's assistant general counsel. ''Which is the difference between having a valid tax shelter as opposed to a nonvalid tax shelter.''
But Francois faced skeptical audiences. ''We had a hell of a time convincing people that, in spite of being solar, it was legitimate,'' he says. To reduce the investors' risk, Luz guaranteed the output of the plant for 10 years.
Francois also emphasized the simplicity of the technology chosen for the Luz plant. Basically, the system used a conventional steam turbine attached to solar reflectors whose reliability had been demonstrated at the Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, N.M. Luz's technological twist was its design of the synthetic-oil-filled heat-collection pipes and the computer controls that tilted the mirrors according to the sun's east-west arc. To ensure power at night and on cloudy days, Luz included a natural-gas-fueled heater that, under Federal regulations, could provide up to 25 percent of the plant's daily output. ''It wasn't the fanciest technology,'' says Goldman, ''but it was the quickest and cheapest that would bring solar power to market.''
In 1984, Luz opened SEGS I, a 13.8-megawatt facility. When the second plant started up a year later, it turned out 30 megawatts at 17 cents a kilowatt hour, which SoCal Edison bought for an average of 7 cents a kilowatt hour. The utility tracts for another five plants. ''Unlike some other producers, they were savvy in the business environment,'' says Pamela Easterwood, the utility's qualifying-facility development manager. ''They succeeded because they were small, innovative and aggressive.''
WITH EACH NEW PROJECT, Luz managed to pare down its costs. Improved technology helped. The reflectors have been increased in size, and Goldman has designed new ceramic coatings for the pipes and more accurate computer-control systems. Two years ago, to realize economies of scale, Luz lobbied successfully for a change in the 30-megawatt limit under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act. SEGS VIII, scheduled for completion by December, is an 80-megawatt solar plant.
The improved efficiency of the Luz plants has helped Francois raise $750 million from investors. To date, backers have included insurance companies such as Prudential and Metropolitan Life as well as utilities like Baltimore Gas and Electric and Iowa-Illinois Gas and Electric. Lured by Luz's track record and the tax breaks, Potomac Capital Investment, a venture-capital subsidiary of Potomac Electric, organized a consortium of utilities to invest in five SEGS projects in 1986. P.C.I. put in $63 million of its own money. ''Those investment credits had a big impact on our economic analysis,'' says a vice president at P.C.I., John McConomy.
But the credits have been under siege. California's tax incentives ended in 1988. The Federal investment tax credit ended the same year. The Federal energy tax credit, scheduled to end in 1988, has been extended, but not without opposition. In another sign of the times, the solar panels on top of the White House vanished during the Reagan Administration. ''The Reagan ideologues viewed solar as a granola experience for a lot of crazy liberals,'' says Scott Sklar, the industry lobbyist. ''They seemed to lump together communism and solar energy.''
Today, says Ross Ain, a Luz lobbyist who is a former associate general counsel with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, ''The budget is tighter and tighter and most legislators have other priorities.''
The remaining 10 percent Federal energy tax credit is due to expire on Dec. 31, but Congress is considering a bill that would extend it for five years. Many legislators, however, see the measure as an unnecessary tax break for Luz's power-plant investors. ''I don't know why we have to be loading up a lot of tax benefits for otherwise profitable operations,'' says Rep. Pete Stark (D-Calif.). To the argument that Luz produces clean, nonpolluting energy, Stark responds: ''So do squirrels running a treadmill. It's a question of how much you want to subsidize the squirrel-breeding industry.''
The House has failed to extend the credit, but in the past the Senate has succeeded in keeping it. Senate supporters are once again hopeful. ''All in all, the chances for extension look good,'' says Senator Spark Matsunaga (D-Hawaii), the author of the bill. ''There is increasing support for solar energy because of environmental concerns.''
In fact, President Bush has often expressed his devotion to nonpolluting renewable energy resources, but his position on the extension has yet to be disclosed. ''The jury is still out,'' says Matsunaga.
On the other side of the continent, SoCal Edison has begun to look less lovingly at any new alternate energy producers like Luz. In the beginning, the utility had planned to sign on for 2,000 megawatts of power from renewables, but was forced by PURPA to contract for 6,000 megawatts of costly power. SoCal Edison today must pay about 8 cents per kilowatt hour for solar energy when it can purchase hydroelectric power for about 4 cents. ''Under PURPA, we can't say no,'' says SoCal Edison's Easterwood. ''We have to take the power, which is now more than we need, and for much more than we want to pay.'' In the utility's 1988 annual report, PURPA is described as a ''well-meaning public policy that turned out to be wrong.''
As it now stands, 26 percent of the utility's power is produced from oil and natural gas, 21 percent from nuclear plants, 15 percent from coal and 16 percent from other utilities. The remainder comes from water (4 percent) and from other renewable sources (18 percent).
SoCal Edison has offered Luz a different kind of contract to cover SEGS VIII and succeeding plants. Betting that the price of oil and natural gas will remain stable, or dip, the utility wants to peg what it pays Luz to current traditional fuel prices. That has discouraged some of Luz's backers, including P.C.I., which has shied away from investing in SEGS VIII.
These days Goldman and Francois are selling SEGS plants as a hedge against a rise in oil prices. When he meets venture capitalists, Francois lays out several scenarios: With oil at the August price of $17.50 a barrel, investors in SEGS VIII could expect a return of about 13 percent; at $20, it would be in the 16 percent range. In fact, with oil at $20 or more, Francois insists, Luz's plants would be profitable with or without tax breaks. O N THE TOP FLOOR OF a glass and concrete office tower near the main campus of the University of California at Los Angeles, the scuffed walls at Luz's headquarters are bare but for the occasional SEGS photograph or surveyor's map of the Mojave Desert. In Francois's office, two Israeli trade awards hang; Luz's manufacturing plant is one of Israel's top 10 exporters.
Luz International, the parent company, is directed by what staffers call ''the triumvirate,'' three leaders who are rarely together at any one time. Goldman spends much of the year with Luz's 400 employees in Jerusalem. Francois spends his days with 60 employees at the Los Angeles office, whose main occupation is raising money for future Luz plants.
Last April, Luz named James Bazor as its chief operating officer and the man in charge of the construction division. The crusty, 55-year-old Bazor had been building SEGS projects for Montgomery, Ala.-based Blount Inc. He now labors in the Mojave Desert, overseeing a work force of 1,000 - including 250 technicians who operate the plants and another 60 permanent construction managers. Over the next few months, 200 more employees will be signed on as Luz rushes to complete primary construction on SEGS VIII to qualify for the remaining Federal tax credit.
Luz International has recently benefited from an infusion of cash from C. P. National, a telecommunications company based in Walnut Creek, Calif. ''We knew utilities weren't going to build huge generating plants anymore because of the financial risks,'' says Michael Holmstrom, the company's president. ''And Luz was a perfect match because of its small modular plants that offered peak power when it was needed.'' C. P. National has put up $11 million to become a limited partner in SEGS projects, but it has also invested directly in Luz International. Last year, the firm added $11 million to its $6 million stake in Luz International, becoming the largest shareholder, with 38 percent of the outstanding stock.
Luz International's profit picture has only recently begun to brighten. As opposed to the limited partners who bought into SEGS plants, shareholders in the parent company have watched it consistently lose money between 1979 and 1985. Last year the company reported a $5 million profit on $153 million in revenues; this year Luz expects to make about $5 million to $6 million on revenues of $250 million, mainly from the sale of the SEGS VIII plant. But the profit is to be plowed back into the company.
Its prospects continue to be tied, in large measure, to the public concern about the environment. In California, those concerns have led to a dramatic reduction in the use of oil and natural gas for electricity from 81 percent in 1977 to less than half this year. ''We had a heroin-like dependence on fossil fuels,'' says Charles Imbrecht, the chairman of the California Energy Commission, ''and we've spent the last 10 years trying to kick the habit.''
In fact, a new California Energy Commission rule, which will go into effect in 1990, adds an environmental price tag to the cost of power: among other things, the cost of pollution controls, of rehabilitating strip mines and of decommissioning nuclear facilities. ''Some energy resources have looked artificially better than solar,'' says Imbrecht. The commission is committed to fulfilling 10 percent of the state's needs with solar power by the year 2000. With an optimism born of experience, Luz is plunging ahead. The company recently broke ground on the first of five large-scale SEGS plants in Harper Lake, Calif., about 20 miles from Kramer Junction. Over the next five years, the company plans to spend $60 million on research and development projects, including a storage battery that will save daytime energy for use at night or on cloudy days and double-access tracking devices that will tilt the mirrors not only east and west, but also north and south, to follow the sun through the seasons.
AT THE MOMENT, LUZ faces little competition.
There are no other large-scale solar thermal plants anywhere. Photovoltaics are widely viewed as a promising form of solar energy, but photovoltaic power still costs about 30 cents per kilowatt hour and the largest photovoltaic plant is only 6.5 megawatts. Chronar Corp., of Princeton, N.J., has announced its intention to build a 50-megawatt photovoltaic plant north of Los Angeles, but no contract has yet been signed; it will produce power in the 10-to-12 cents per kilowatt hour range.
Arnold Goldman says that the company's SEGS could one day produce hundreds of thousands of megawatts of solar power for the nation's utilities. He envisions much larger plants owned by utilities and thus not limited by PURPA's 80-megawatt restriction on independent producers. Nevada, Arizona and other Sunbelt states are his natural market in the United States since they possess the cloud-free days, dry air and low-cost land he needs. Solar plants still require four or five acres of land for every megawatt of power produced.
Ironically, Luz has had difficulty selling its wares in Israel, whose climate and terrain appear ideal. ''The engineers at Israel Electric are like those at a lot of American utilities,'' says Goldman. ''They tend to be very conservative.''
Patrick Francois sums up Luz's prospects in these terms: ''We'll have a nice business in the future if you believe that oil and gas are finite resources, if you believe that oil prices will return to $20 a barrel and if you believe that society still cares about getting the cleanest power possible.''
But that's a lot of if's -even for a business built on sunshine.

GRAPHIC: photo of a solar field in the Mojave Desert (Paul Flusco/Magnum)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (56%); CVX (BRU) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MOJAVE DESERT (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LUZ INTERNATIONAL LTD; SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CALIFORNIA

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY SOLAR ENERGY (92%); DESERTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); TAX LAW (83%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); NATURAL GAS (75%); DEREGULATION (75%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (74%); ENERGY DEMAND (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (74%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); OIL SPILLS (70%); ACID RAIN (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (64%); TAX INCENTIVES (61%); GLOBAL WARMING (61%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (54%); 

PERSON: WEISS, MICHAEL J CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



580 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 21, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 2933 words

HEADLINE: Investors Confront a New Europe

BYLINE: By Madelon DeVoe Talley; Madelon DeVoe Talley, an investment consultant based in New York, is the author of ''The Passionate Investors.''

 BODY:
IMAGINE A EUROPE THAT RESEMBLES the United States, a continent in which people and goods move freely across state borders with nary a customs or immigration officer to interrupt the flow.
Mechanics and doctors, accountants and industrial designers change jobs without regard to geography. Their maroon passports identify them as European; they are paid and they enjoy the fruits of their labor with a single European currency.
The idea of such a Europe - not too long ago deemed a utopian goal - is rife in the international business world. C.E.O.'s and economists pepper their speeches and reports with references to 1992, the deadline the European Community of 12 nations has set for the dismantling of internal economic barriers. Recognizing that the 320 million consumers in a Pan-European grouping will constitute the world's largest market (nearly as big as the United States and Japan combined), corporate strategists are factoring 1992 into their sales and operations planning, and concluding that acquisitions may provide the fastest route to gaining dominant positions. 
For Wall Street, 1992 represents a big idea, a ''theme'' of a magnitude not seen since the oil crisis of the 1970's. Investment managers explore such themes to generate ''concepts'' about specific industries and ''stories'' about individual companies.
But 1992 poses a challenge for investors. The general outline is clear enough, but the details and timing remain frustratingly ambiguous. Almost no one expects to wake up on Jan.1, 1993, and find the transition to a single market completed. Says Michael Lipper of Lipper Analytical Services, ''It's a lot of hype . . . . 1992 makes a lot of sense for 2013.'' While some skeptics scoff at the notion of a protectionist Old World transformed into a free and deregulated environment, others predict that its advent is already being discounted. As one veteran Wall Street broker puts it, ''It'll be overblown by the time it happens.''
In fact, much has already happened. About half of the 279 directives for liberalizing legislation have been effected by the European Council of Ministers in Brussels. The reconciliation of standards for product manufacturing and the removal of restrictions on the sale of financial services are both well under way.
The odds against a European central bank and a unified currency, however, remain high. Britain's Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher has been the most resolute foe of monetary union, though she refrained from blocking steps toward such a system at a summit meeting in Madrid last June.
Meanwhile, anticipation of 1992 has already inspired much of the bullish activity on European stock exchanges during the last 18 months. And it has been a catalyst for a spate of mergers and acquisitions. ''Once a businessman believes he'll be able to sell across borders, the smart ones won't wait,'' says Philip Douglas, a managing director of Alliance International Fund, based in London. Sir James Goldsmith's $21 billion bid to seize Britain's B.A.T. Industries is seen as a harbinger of leveraged buyout warfare to come.
The possibility of a ''Fortress Eu-rope,'' where new trade barriers would block competition from abroad, in particular the United States and Japan, has Washington and Wall Street worried. ''When people become rich, they tend to raise walls around their empires,'' says George Soros, president of Soros Fund Management, a global investment pioneer.
American multinationals are moving to firm up their European footholds before the barriers are erected. At the same time, European companies are stepping up their investments in the United States to safeguard against retaliatory actions by an angry Congress. ''The dual paranoia is creating a gold rush both ways of people wanting to be there for the strike,'' says Rainer Greeven of Greeven & Ercklentz, a New York law firm that specializes in advising clients on trans-Atlantic business activities.
INVESTORS ARE PUTTING their money mainly into European securities - which has become easier for Americans to do these days - but they are also buying shares of American companies that are well positioned to take advantage of the new market.
In the early stages of a theme like 1992, investment managers must rely on certain broad assumptions. First, Europe is a wealthy region that can only grow wealthier when companies become more efficient in a deregulated, more competitive environment. Second, the massive restructuring of European industry will make for lively securities markets. ''Change always creates opportunities for investors,'' says Christian Norgren, chairman of The Bank in Liechtenstein, the largest private bank in that tax-haven nation.
For the most part, money managers are looking for the industries that are likely to benefit from integration and deregulation (the ''concepts'') and then searching for companies within those industries in various countries (the ''stories''). This sector approach is preferred by big investors to hunting for winners and losers country by country.
Starting with the losers, experienced Europe hands point to small and medium-sized companies that will be at a disadvantage against giants, which have the resources to market and distribute their products throughout a Pan-European network. Many pharmaceutical companies are among the handicapped.
European airlines, mostly government-controlled and used to operating as a cartel, are being shunned. ''There could be a mine field out there,'' says Henry de Vismes, president of the Kleinwort Benson International Fund in London. He points to the price warfare, heavy losses and initial drop in stock prices that attended the deregulation of airlines in the United States.
No regulatory changes are in the offing to make the automobile and food industries more attractive; their franchises have already been extended beyond national boundaries. But other factors can be brought to bear on specific companies.
If he were to go to sleep for 10 years, says James Heyworth-Dunne, managing director of HD International, a London-based institutional fund management company, he would want these stocks in his portfolio: Peugeot, the profitable French car maker, which should benefit from the harmonizing of value added taxes (France's V.A.T. is nearly double the British rate); Carrefour, a huge French supermarket chain with growth potential in Spain, and Carnaud, a French packaging company that should reap the benefits of standardized labeling on food and alcohol products.
What's more, losers can be winners when they are candidates for takeover. Some investment managers, who think the merger-betting game may have peaked in the United States, intend to participate in the action as it moves to Europe.
Typical of the many variables surrounding 1992 is Spain, the country that draws special attention from sector strategists because they believe its dynamic economy will grow faster than the rest of Europe in the years to come. Spain is also a beneficiary of the sunbelt phenomenon; many companies are moving their operations to southern Europe in search of lower labor costs. Moreover, once pensions can be drawn anywhere within the European Community, many retired persons are expected to head south.
 
TRANSPORTATION
''Once you focus on the most fragmented industries where there's been the greatest degree of regulation,'' says Sally Whittaker, manager of the Fidelity 1992 European Opportunities Assets Fund in London, ''transportation becomes obvious.''
Next year, physical frontiers between Germany, France and the Benelux countries will be eliminated, a first step toward creating a wide distribution network and unleashing the competitive forces that have transformed the freight-forwarding industry in the United States. Two freight-forwarders favored by money managers are Danzas, a Swiss company, and Frans Maas Beheer, a small Dutch company regarded as a takeover candidate. In addition, Fidelity considers Nedlloyd, a Dutch shipping company, as a potential beneficiary of the changing transport scene.
No investment symbolizes for Europeans the process of economic and political integration as much as Eurotunnel, the transportation consortium that is constructing the tunnel beneath the English Channel. When the tunnel opens in 1993, the train journey between London and Paris will be cut in half to less than three hours. Although the company is not expected to produce earnings until 1993, the stock, listed on the London and Paris stock exchanges, has just about doubled its offering price of November 1987.
 
FINANCIAL SERVICES
The psychological impact of 1992 is being felt in banking as consolidation sets in at a furious pace. But many investment managers say it will be the middle of the decade before they can fathom who the winners will be in a single market for financial services. An American giant, Citicorp, has 800 branches and 18,000 employees in Europe, and has absorbed millions in losses trying to cover more of the continent than anyone else.
For current investment potential, Steven H. Nagourney, chief international strategist at Shearson Lehman Hutton, is picking the strongest banks in various countries: Paribas in France, B. C. I. in Italy and Deutsche Bank in Germany. Apart from Deutsche Bank's growing asset base - in 1986 it bought Bank of America's 100 branches in Italy - the German bank should benefit, Nagourney feels, from its longstanding relationships in Eastern Europe in the wake of perestroika. And the scandals that have tarnished the aura of several Swiss banks can further redound to Deutsche Bank's credit.
The recent push by some of the biggests insurance companies to become one-stop financial shopping centers in a deregulated Europe sends a clear signal to money managers. Appearing on most of their lists of investments are Allianz, Germany's most aggressive insurance company; Nationale-Nederlanden and Aegon, respectively, the first and second largest insurers in the Netherlands, and Groupe Victoire, France's second largest insurance company, which last month became the target of a hostile bid from Compagnie Financiere de Suez, a huge French banking company.
 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND MEDIA
Historically, most European countries have had two or three television networks financed mostly through Government subsidies rather than advertising. But in recent years, several nations have followed Italy's lead in adding new commercial channels, paving the way for a thriving system of private television and radio networks. By 1990, the number of channels and hours of broadcasting in Western Europe will have nearly tripled in the space of six years.
When the regulatory lid comes off, says Andrew M. Wallach, media and entertainment analyst for Drexel Burnham Lambert, the market for imported television programming will explode. The chief beneficiaries could be American film producers. Wallach recommends the Walt Disney Company, Time Warner Inc., Paramount and Viacom International, which operates a European version of its MTV.
Europe is the biggest market for Capital Cities Corporation's ABC Distribution Company, which sells the network's American-made television products abroad. As part of a strategy to market locally produced European programs after 1992 (and import them as well for American cable), ABC has acquired an interest in Telemunchen, a television producer and program distributor based in Munich, West Germany, to serve as a European foothold.
In addition, News Corporation, Rupert Murdoch's Australian-based global media company, is seen by some investment managers as a vehicle for tapping into satellite television. Sky Television, Murdoch's British satellite venture, broadcasts directly to the continent.
A favorite of European money managers is Carlton Communications P.L.C., a British leader in the television-support business. It supplies everything from stage props to digital-signal processing equipment to television and film studios. Last year, Carlton acquired Technicolor Inc., the California-based company that is the world's largest duplicator of videocassettes.
Wallach joins his European colleagues in recommending Canal Plus, a French pay- television service, and Compagnie Generale des Eaux, the world's largest private water utility, which has substantial stakes in cable television (including a 22 percent interest in Canal) and cellular radiotelephone.
As the integration of Europe proceeds, major consumer companies are expected to use television to market their brands across borders. ''It's the key to success for any competitive company after 1992,'' says George Johnston, chairman of Scudder, Stevens & Clark, veteran international fund managers. ''Advertising is a subtle form of distribution.'' Because of their long international experience and acquisitive streaks in recent years, American and British agencies are the ones investment managers consider to be in the best position to cash in on the European advertising boom. In particular, they single out Omnicom Group and the Interpublic Group, based in the United States, and Britain's WPP Group P.L.C. and Saatchi & Saatchi P.L.C.
 
LEISURE
According to Sir David English, deputy chairman of Associated Newspapers, a British company that has conducted extensive market research on the subject, younger people have a more selfish rather than idealistic view of European integration. ''They want better jobs, better travel, they want to be citizens of a superpower,'' he says. ''The Americans have had the Good Life for a long time - it's our turn.''
Those sentiments bode well for companies in the European leisure industry, from hotels to makers of camping equipment. According to Wallach of Drexel Burnham, a major investment in the field should be EuroDisneyland. The first stage of the theme park is scheduled to open in 1992 on the outskirts of Paris. Disney is offering a 51 percent ownership in the project in a Euro-equity issue due out this fall.
The offering is restricted to residents of the European Community, but Wallach recommends the stock of the parent company. He calculates that the value of EuroDisney's land and infrastructure is worth several dollars per share to Walt Disney shareholders.
Nagourney of Shearson Lehman Hutton likes Club Mediterranee, the French tourism company, for its undervalued assets and the likelihood the company will be restructured.
 
REAL ESTATE
When investment managers get together to swap ideas about 1992, the talk inevitably drifts to castles in Spain - and farmhouses in Provence. Almost everyone nurtures the idea that a vacation home in some idyllic corner of Europe will pay off in long-term capital gains.
Sotheby's International Realty has numerous listings of authentic properties with price tags that are geared to the affluent investor. An 18th-century Georgian manor house near Dublin or a palazzo on the outskirts of Venice can be had in the $500,000 to $1.5 million range. William Montgomery, Sotheby's chairman, cites as ''exceptional values'' the farmhouses in Aix, Nimes, Arles and the Luberon mountains of southern France that are going for $300,000 to $500,000, not including substantial costs for rehabilitation.
In a more commercial vein, money managers note that Brussels real estate has started to appreciate, as has property on both sides of the channel near the Eurotunnel.
A Salomon Brothers research report points to opportunities in the Paris real estate market that can be bought at a discount by investing in the stock of companies listed on the Paris Bourse. Lucia, an aggressive development company, specializes in office space, particularly in La Defense, the western business section of the city. Grands Moulins de Paris, a large milling company, has unrealized assets in land in eastern Paris. The diversified property portfolio of Compagnie Fonciere Internationale includes office buildings and shopping centers in Brussels and Madrid.
Stephen J. Dobi, a housing and construction analyst for Salomon Brothers, recommends Kaufman and Broad Home Corporation. The California homebuilder has extensive operations in Paris, including the construction and renovation of major office buildings.
HOW CAN INDIVIDUAL investors avail themselves of the 1992 theme?
Americans are precluded from buying the new investment funds specifically oriented toward 1992 that have been blossoming in Europe. But they can choose among mutual funds that are registered in the United States, including seasoned international funds that have both European and Asian portfolios and strictly European funds developed in the last four years.
Both types of funds have performed better than one-country funds. The single exception is the Spain Fund, created by Alliance Capital last year. This closed-end fund has been trading on the New York Stock Exchange at a 33 percent premium over asset value. Its largest holdings are in manufacturing -companies such as Prosegur (electronic security systems and armored trucks), Tabacalera (cigarettes) and Repsol (petroleum).
It is also increasingly easy to buy securities listed on foreign exchanges directly through one of the large American brokerage houses that have international trading and research capability. Commissions and transaction fees are generally slightly higher, although these vary from country to country. In addition, some 800 foreign securities, principally in the form of American Depositary Receipts, are traded on the New York and American Stock Exchanges and in the over-the-counter market.

GRAPHIC: drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%); BELGIUM (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: LIPPER INC (82%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (90%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; STOCKS AND BONDS IMMIGRATION (90%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (73%); MERGERS (73%); BONDS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (71%); SALES PLAN (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (66%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: TALLEY, MADELON DEVOE



581 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 18, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 6009 words

HEADLINE: Counselor To The King

BYLINE: By Liz Roman Gallese; Liz Roman Gallese writes about business from Wellesley, Mass.

 BODY:
THE INVESTIGATION BEGAN IN DECEMBER OF 1986. Officials from Britain's Department of Trade and Industry descended upon the London headquarters of Guinness P.L.C., a huge liquor conglomerate. When the charges were lodged five months later, Ernest W. Saunders, the chairman, and a number of leading British business figures stood accused of stock manipulation in connection with Guinness' $4.1 billion takeover of Distillers Company. At the heart of the case was a letter to a lawyer from Olivier Roux, an executive of the Boston-based management consulting firm of Bain & Company. Roux, on loan to Guinness, had served as controller and financial director of the British company and as a member of its board of directors. In his letter he defended his own actions and implicated Ernest Saunders. Roux was not charged. Saunders, who says Bain's behavior in the case was ''ruthless,'' is scheduled to face trial in January.
The Guinness scandal rocked Britain's financial community, but it also raised a number of interesting questions about Bain, in particular, and the management consulting business in general. Aside from Roux, Bain had as many as 35 staffers at a time consulting for Guinness in Britain, for an annual fee estimated at $20 million. Was this typical of a consulting firm's involvement with a client? To what degree was it appropriate or desirable for consultants to take over the duties of management? 
Jack Brennan, a professor of management at Skidmore College and a former C.E.O., offers one kind of response:
''Consultants are supposed to be advisers rather than executives. They are supposed to be counselors to the king. They are supposed to keep their skirts clean.''
William W. Bain Jr., the 52-year-old founder, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Bain & Company, takes a somewhat different tack. Erect in his chair, speaking, as always, with measured precision, he allows that the scandal might have put off some potential clients: ''You never know who almost picked up a telephone and didn't.'' Permitting Roux to join the Guinness board, he acknowledges, was a mistake: ''I wish we hadn't done it.'' (It was also, says James H. Kennedy, who tracks consulting trends from Fitzwilliam, N.H., ''conflict of interest with a capital C.'') Otherwise, Bain insists that his firm's behavior at Guinness was exemplary and productive. In fact, it was a classic exercise in the Bain way.
The $13.5 billion management consulting industry might be divided into two basic camps. Some firms concentrate on performing specific, case-by-case tasks for a client. Leading the pack are the consulting arms of the largest accounting firms (See box, Page 20). In the other corner are the firms that are known for their strategy consulting, whereby clients are advised on how to integrate new acquisitions or alter their product mix - issues that involve the whole company. The list includes the old-line, broad-based houses, such as McKinsey & Company and Booz-Allen & Hamilton, as well as the so-called strategy houses like the Boston Consulting Group and Bain.
Management consulting thrives on change, and has prospered of late, spurred by the torrent of corporate restructurings, in the United States and abroad, and the effort of American companies to position themselves for the economic unification of Europe in 1992. With an estimated $220 million in revenues last year, Bain is far from the largest of the major firms - McKinsey, for example, racked up $620 million. Within the industry, however, Bain has a force and a presence far beyond its size. The firm pioneered the concept known as implementation, whereby a strategy consultant not only offers a client a grand plan but also, like the man who came to dinner, stays on and on to see that the plan is carried out. Bain is the chief practitioner of ''relationship'' consulting, which calls for a remarkable level of intimacy with its major clients.
Beyond its reputation for innovation, though, Bain is famous for the iron discipline and gung-ho spirit of its troops (who are known throughout the industry as Bainies), and for its extraordinary secrecy. New employees must sign a nondisclosure form, promising never to reveal the names of clients, and everyone who works for the company must adhere to a ''code of confidentiality'' that includes instruction on how to discard sensitive documents.
This article is largely based on interviews with Bill Bain, who rarely speaks to the press, and with Bain employees, past and present, some of whom insisted on anonymity. Part of the reason, a former vice president explained, is loyalty to the firm, but another part ''is that these are bad people to have mad at you, that they are ruthless, hard and unfeeling.'' ONE DAY IN 1984, MARK A. GOTTFREDSON, a Bain vice president, found himself in Detroit, chatting with the director of the large-car division of the Chrysler Corporation, a longtime Bain client. The director wondered whether manufacturing quality might be improved by simplifying the process - for example, by cutting back the options Chrysler offered on its cars. As Gottfredson recalls, the director said he would ''kill'' to know, given the hundreds of choices facing a customer in terms of color, style and equipment, just how many possible combinations of options Chrysler plants had to be ready to provide. ''When a client would 'kill to know,' '' Gottfredson says, ''we're pretty quick to go after it.''
The particular answer was soon delivered: 10 billion. But the conversation led to a remarkable series of assignments for Bain, and a dramatic change, still being effected, in the company's manufacturing procedures. It was a classic case of management consulting a la Bain.
The consultants first explored the possibility of offering customers set packages of options - power windows and power doorlocks, for example, would be part of a package rather than provided as individual options. The Bain team also discovered that most American customers bought their cars directly off the lot without bothering to pick and choose among all the options available. Bain embarked on a six-month exploration of what Gottfredson calls ''the cost of complexity.'' A team of Bainies invaded one of the division's plants to determine the hypothetical savings achieved by manufacturing cars with set packages of options.
''There were 1,500 stations in the plant,'' he says, ''and we looked at every one.'' The savings were estimated at one-third.
Chrysler bought the idea of packaging options. Bain talked to salesmen, dealers and marketing executives and customers and came up with a list of 5,000 packages that would satisfy 99 percent of the company's customers.
The final step was to actually implement the decision on the factory floor. Bain showed how. First, the consultant team paid a visit to six Japanese auto plants and quizzed three Japanese industry consultants. Says Gottfredson, who speaks Japanese: ''We wanted to know how many people worked in each plant, the breakdown between direct and indirect labor, how often cars were pulled off the line. We learned a lot.'' He also found, tucked away in an obscure Japanese journal, an article dealing with plant scheduling; it contained a mathematical formula ''that allowed us to optimize for all of those things.''
The Bain team applied its new-won knowledge on the factory floor at Chrysler, identifying four major categories of systems that could be overhauled, advising on just how that might be accomplished. Bain likes to get down with the troops, Gottfredson says. Describing another Chrysler project, he tells how the Bainies swept into a plant, studying all three shifts, ''No ties, women in pants, on the line in the body shop 24 hours a day. They'd ask questions like, 'Why did this piece of equipment go down?' And a plant manager would say, 'Stick your head into this 20-ton jaw and find out.' ''
The consultants labored in 12 of Chrysler's plants, then trained Chrysler's people to handle the process in the others. ''They're rolling it out now,'' Gottfredson says. According to Chrysler, Bain's labors yielded gratifying results. On the Omni and Horizon models, for example, complexity reduction trimmed money off the sticker price.
IN THE HEADQUARTERS OF Bain & Company, which takes up four floors of an office tower in Boston's Copley Place, 700 staff members are crammed into open bays, 15 desks to a bay. Bill Bain's office is a world apart, a commodious room filled with antiques and fresh-cut flowers. A Boston Celtics basketball sits in a silver bowl near his desk. Bain, a trim 5-feet, 11-inches tall, plays basketball himself and is an avid Celtics fan.
He answers questions carefully and exhaustively, constantly sipping a glass of Dr Pepper. His pale face, a stark contrast to his dark suit and the royal blue walls of the room, registers little emotion.
Unlike almost everyone in the strategy consulting trade, Bill Bain does not possess an M.B.A. Born in Johnson City, Tenn., the son of a food wholesaler, he attended East Tennessee State College for two years, then transferred to Vanderbilt University, where he majored in history. By the time he graduated from college in 1959, he was married and a father; William III, now 30, is a freelance commercial artist in California. (Bain married a second time, in 1973, to Colleen Sullivan; they have three children.) Bain received a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship for an advanced degree in history, but found thesis-writing not to his taste. Instead, he joined a small steel-fabricating company, making sales calls and working up engineering studies. In 1960, he returned to Vanderbilt, as a development officer. It was in the course of soliciting alumni for funds for the university's proposed business school that Bain met Bruce Henderson, the founder of the Boston Consulting Group. Within months, Bain was on the B.C.G. payroll.
Management consulting had its roots in time-and-motion studies of the early 20th century. One of the first to apply these scientific ideas was Arthur D. Little, who incorporated his firm in 1909. Its clients today remain primarily in the world of science and technology. Booz-Allen was founded in 1914, followed by McKinsey in 1926.
A turning point in the history of management consulting arrived in 1963 when Bruce Henderson, an Arthur D. Little veteran, set up a firm dedicated to strategy consulting. Henderson's ''product portfolio'' or ''growth-share'' matrix has become a staple of modern management. In much simplified form, it proposes that managers should look at the parts of their companies under four basic headings and behave accordingly: Milk the slow-growing, cash-yielding ''cows,'' nurture the fast-growing, cash-gobbling ''stars,'' ditch the moribund ''dogs'' and convert the ''question marks.''
Before Henderson, says Patrick Graham, a Bain executive vice president and B.C.G. alumnus, ''Everything was a snapshot versus a movie. There wasn't any sense of the dynamic - that one event leads to another. That's what Bruce added.''
At B.C.G., Bill Bain rose quickly to the rank of group vice president, overseeing with Graham one of four operating groups. Their unit was soon producing an impressive share of the firm's revenues, but Bain was restless. He was convinced that the management consultant's role should extend to implementing strategy - he had tried the approach and achieved what he felt were spectacular results. But B.C.G. was then, and remains to this day, wary of such intrusions. Says John Clarkeson, the firm's current C.E.O., ''It's always risky to dilute management's responsibility for day-to-day operations.''
In 1973, Bain marched into Henderson's office and resigned, announcing his intention to start his own business. Henderson, now 76, recalls the moment well. He had thought Bain would be his successor. ''It was war,'' he says, ''the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor. I felt more betrayed and robbed and desecrated than ever before in my life.'' The parting was bitter, with Henderson accusing Bain of looking for business clients among B.C.G. clients, of stealing B.C.G. employees - even of soliciting financial backing from B.C.G.'s then parent, the Boston Company. Bain denies the charges.
In any event, it was not long before Bain & Company had two former B.C.G. clients, Black & Decker and Texas Instruments, and was joined by six B.C.G. professionals, including Graham. Bain was now free to practice his special brand of consulting. He would accept shorter, less all-encompassing assignments, but he was dedicated to building close, long-term relationships with companies. He would not only devise strategies, he would help carry them out. And, in another departure from the industry norm, he promised that he would represent no more than one such client in any given industry. For so intimate an adviser, almost a part of the company, anything else would be a conflict of interest.
Over the years, Bain's list of major clients grew to encompass some of the leading corporations of the nation, including the likes of Baxter International, Burlington Industries, Dun & Bradstreet, Hughes Tool, Iowa Beef, Monsanto and Wells Fargo. The results have often been impressive. In a March 1989 Price Waterhouse audit, the market value of all of Bain's clients was shown to have increased 456 percent since 1980. The audit was based on the in-house Bain Index. It compares the performance of clients' stocks with that of the Dow Jones industrial average, which was up only 192 percent. Bain claims that, for every dollar it charges clients, they increase their profits by a factor of 5 to 10.
Not everyone, however, is convinced of the value of strategy consultants. Some critics believe their chief function is as corporate lightning rod to draw criticism away from the C.E.O. ''The old saw,'' says Abraham Zaleznik, a professor of leadership at the Harvard Business School, ''was that the consultant came in and listened to what the C.E.O. wanted to do and then wrote it up. This is still a large part of the process. It doesn't take great intellectual powers, and there is a fair amount of psychodrama.'' Of Bain's approach, Zaleznik says, ''If the C.E.O. calls in the consulting firm to, in effect, run the business, it's a statement he doesn't know how to do it.''
THE ANNUAL MEETING OF the Boston staff of Bain & Company, a kind of modified pep rally, opened last May in a suburban Boston hotel. The highlight of the first evening's entertainment came when two vice chairmen of the firm, decked out in dark glasses, stormed into the hall on motorcycles. Then they jumped onto the stage, did a couple of back-flips and burst into a takeoff of ''Soul Man'' titled ''I'm a Ba-y-y-y-y-n Man.'' The musical accompaniment was provided by the Bain Band, composed of employees.
At meetings serious and social, in everyday contacts with senior officers, Bain seeks to steep its staff in the ways of the corporate culture. The firm's new mission statement sets the tone. The objective: ''to help our clients create . . . high levels of economic value.'' The means: ''the Bain community of extraordinary teams.''
For Bill Bain, teamwork is all. ''The great teams,'' he says, ''and I think of ourselves as being in that league, are made up of very powerful individuals. Think of the great Boston Celtics, guys like Bill Russell or Dave Cowens. Obviously the players were not subjugated in some oppressive way by the coach, but he got them to play as an incredibly productive team.''
Mark Nunnelly, a 30-year-old Bain vice president, puts it another way: ''Bain recruits Bruce Springsteens and figures out how to make them very strong first violin players.''
Like its competitors, the firm hunts for ''Springsteens'' who have M.B.A.'s from the leading schools, notably Harvard. The pursuit starts with the hiring of top students as summer interns; those who pass muster are courted in the months before graduation. Bain & Company offers candidates salaries well above $60,000, not counting the signing bonus and the year-end bonus. Only investment banks pay more for M.B.A. graduates.
Most of Bain's M.B.A. hires have some business experience, and they rapidly get more working with clients. ''One of Bill's tricks,'' says a former staffer, ''was to move people very quickly, maybe a little faster than they thought they deserved, to keep them on the edge of feeling grateful.'' But Bill Bain scoffs at the often-heard notion that his young consultants run around telling C.E.O.'s what to do. ''I'm amused,'' he says, ''at the idea of our three-year consultants somehow wresting all of this power from 50-year-old general managers who probably killed a couple of people to get their jobs.''
Under the Bain system, a vice president with five to eight years' tenure manages the client relationship, dealing with senior executives. A manager with four or five years' experience oversees the team, which includes a team leader who has had two or three years with Bain, a number of more junior consultants, a smattering of associate consultants and, in season, summer interns.
In a large conference room at Boston headquarters recently, a seven-person case team briefs Bain vice president Christopher Zook on its plans for a meeting with a client. The mission: to prepare the client's sales force to handle a more sophisticated product line.
Standing at the white board, John Flanigan, the team manager, attired like most Bainies in dark suit, blue shirt and red suspenders, outlines a proposal for having technical specialists accompany salespeople on their rounds. An associate consultant expresses concern - she has accompanied one of the salesmen on his rounds, and found him to be an independent type who would not take kindly to having a specialist tag along. Observes the team leader, ''You have to watch the Karma.''
Zook urges the team to be careful how its proposal is presented. ''Your job,'' he says, ''is to depict objective data objectively and let people look at the facts and migrate toward sensible solutions.''
For Bain vice presidents with five to eight years' experience, salaries range upward from $200,000. According to Kennedy, for the services of a $200,000-a-year consultant, clients pay between $600,000 and $800,000 on an annualized basis.
In matters of salary, and much else, Bill Bain maintains ultimate control. For a portion of its life, the firm operated under a partnership deed, what is referred to by one former partner as ''not a bill of rights, but the rights of Bill.'' When he read the document, he says, he discovered that ''I was signing myself up for unlimited liability, along with Bill. Otherwise, I was just going to be a salaried man. No right for compensation if I were to be fired. No tenure. No vote. It was a sham.'' In 1985, the partnership was replaced by a corporation.
Among consulting companies that do strategy work, most notably McKinsey, associates who fail to rise in the ranks often join client companies. Bain discourages the practice. Michael White, who is now a senior vice president of a division of Avon Inc. - not a Bain client - recalls that while he was still at Bain, he was approached by a client. One of Bain's top executives, he says, contacted the company to stop any further talks.
One of the side benefits of being a partner-vice president at Bain has been the opportunity to invest in Bain Capital, a venture capital fund. The affiliate's first fund, started in 1984, put almost $37 million in some 20 companies and has since been closed. Its annual rate of return has been more than 50 percent. The 1987 fund, still on-going, has a $106 million stake in 13 concerns.
Headed by W. Mitt Romney, son of the former president of American Motors, Bain Venture Capital has managed to steer clear of conflicts of interest by having Bain & Company retain veto power over investments. But it is not an entirely neutral relationship. When Bain & Company temporarily stopped consulting for Firestone in the mid-80's, Bain Capital bought a division of Firestone that made wheel rims. Then it retained a Bain team to help revitalize the company. I N ITS QUEST FOR CLIENTS, Bain & Company offers prospects ''acquaintanceships,'' under which the consultants work without charge for several weeks so that the two parties can look each other over. In some cases, Bain also offers to forego its fee if the consultant cannot live up to its promises. Harry C. Schell, chief executive of Cablec, a $500 million electrical cable company, likes the guarantee: ''We get very, very high return, but if they fall short of performance, they don't get paid. Period.''
In the best of all possible worlds, though, consultants prefer to lure new clients on the basis of their track records. That was the case with Alan P. Hoblitzell Jr., the C.E.O. of MNC Financial, a bank-holding company based in Baltimore, Md. Hoblitzell first retained Bain & Company in the early 1980's after having observed its teams in action at another company on whose board he served. The consulting firm has helped MNC introduce new products, such as so-called affinity credit cards issued in bulk to special-interest groups. It has advised the company on acquisitions. In sum, Hoblitzell says, Bain has been instrumental in lifting MNC's profit into the first quartile in the industry among companies of comparable size.
The specific advantages of using Bain, Hoblitzell says, are several. He wants to keep his in-house staff lean - a common desire in an era of corporate downsizing and restructuring - and the consultants can fill in the gaps, providing strategy and a sounding board. And he makes no bones about the value of consultants in shifting the blame for an unpopular decision to a presumably unbiased outsider. ''I felt that in order to bring about change,'' he says, ''it would be better facilitated by using a third party to help that and move it along.''
Frequently, in hopes of finding a new ''relationship'' client, Bain pursues a camel's-nose-in-the-tent policy. According to Bill Bain, his firm will take on a small assignment when the project has the wholehearted backing of the chief executive and the effort can produce spectacular results. If the C.E.O. is impressed, he will be inclined to welcome Bain into the fold.
In the process of getting acquainted, Bain teams ask a lot of questions. ''They're learning the business,'' says Jim Carey, a senior vice president of Fireman's Fund Insurance Company, ''which is the one thing you have to pay for in resources with a Bain that you wouldn't have to pay for with a B.C.G.'' But, he adds, ''They moved quickly with the learning curve, faster than I could have imagined. I thought they did a phenomenal job for us.''
Ironically, the very effectiveness of the Bain way can pose problems. At Western Digital, an Irvine, Calif., maker of chips and boards for computers, the consultants became so familiar with the company's operations that they sometimes had a better handle on what was going on than Western's own staffers. ''They can centralize information gathering,'' says John R. MacKay, senior vice president for worldwide operations, ''but that becomes bad when our people become dependent on them and stop trying.'' IN 1981, BAIN & COMPANY RE-ceived the kind of assignment that lies closest to its heart. Ernest Saunders, the newly named managing director of Guinness, needed help. After a distinguished career as a marketer, the 46-year-old Saunders had been brought in by Guinness to bring order out of chaos. Over the previous years, the company had gone on a diversification binge, buying some 300 disparate companies. Sales of its flagship product, Guinness stout, were declining. Its stock price was languishing.
Bain moved into action, sending teams of Bainies - including a 30-year-old consultant named Olivier Roux - from the London office to help devise a new strategy. In short order, Roux took on a second function as Guinness' controller; later he became the financial director. The loan of a consultant to a client was nothing new for Bain (according to Bill Bain, it has been done a dozen times), though the practice is shunned by most other firms.
Meanwhile, with Bain's guidance, Guinness was getting out of some 150 unprofitable companies, cutting costs, reviving sales of Guinness stout. Within a few years, pretax profits had doubled, and Guinness once again went hunting. It bought Arthur Bell & Sons, a maker of Scotch whisky, for more than $500 million. And it set its cap for Distillers.
What followed remains to be determined by the British courts. According to the Government, Saunders and his co-defendants arranged for a number of investors to take positions in Guinness, driving up the stock price, an illegal maneuver during a takeover. The bid for Distillers involved an exchange of shares, and a higher Guinness stock price raised the value of its bid - a much desired objective in light of a competing offer from the Argyll Group. Eventually, Guinness won out, paying $4.1 billion in stock and cash. It was, at the time, the biggest takeover in British history.
Today, Saunders faces 49 criminal charges and vehemently denies his guilt. He insists that he knew nothing about any stock-inflation scheme, that the man in charge was Bain's Olivier Roux, in his capacity as financial director. But Roux faces no charges, and will in fact be a witness for the prosecution. He has resigned from both Guinness and Bain and now works for a London investment concern called Talisman, founded by two former Bain consultants.
Roux, who was 36 when the scandal broke, also held a seat on the Guinness board, receiving a stipend of about $9,000 a year while remaining on the Bain payroll. The arrangement has drawn considerable criticism as representing a conflict of interest. Says Jack Brennan, the Skidmore professor: ''They were using their man in a nether world. Was this guy working for Bain or for Guinness?'' That is a question Bain declines to answer, on the grounds that it may be called to testify.
Saunders harbors bitter thoughts about Bain & Company. ''It would appear,'' he says, ''that Bain would do anything to save its own neck. Isn't that, in fact, a hell of a warning both for client companies and other strategy consultants?'' Asked to comment on Saunders' ''warning,'' Bill Bain's pale face momentarily reddens. ''I think that any client we have, or potential client,'' he says, ''understands very well that there are limits to the responsibilities we have to each other, and there are actions that either of us can take that cause the responsibility of the other party to cease.''
Bain & Company says that it has not lost any of its clients as a result of the Guinness scandal. For MNC's Hoblitzell, it's a ''nonissue'' because, he says, his company would never put a consultant on its staff. ''If I had a position to fill,'' he says, ''I would hire somebody internally.'' Kenneth Dawson, managing director of Alpha Publications, a British publishing firm, believes that Bain has held on to its European clients.
But as Bill Bain allows, potential clients may have been affected. One such instance is cited by Brennan - a company on whose board he sits. The company was recently looking for a consultant and ruled out Bain. ''Part of the reason,'' Brennan says, ''is that the board has been negatively influenced by that Guinness affair.'' A former Bain consultant adds, ''The scandal made it easier for McKinsey to tell prospects, 'Better to trust us than those guys.' ''
The scandal had a direct impact on Bain's bottom line as its annual Guinness billings shrank from a high of $20 million to, by one outside estimate, less than $10 million. Bill Bain will not confirm the figure, but he allows, ''Anytime you have a shortfall of a magnitude you're talking about there, there's naturally some reasonable period of time required to replace it.''
In the spring of 1988, Bain & Company discharged 90 professionals and administrators. One erstwhile vice president describes being called into his boss's office, only to be directed by the secretary to a room in the Marriott Hotel near Bain headquarters. There, his boss read from a prepared statement: ''We regret to inform you. . .'' The former officer, who had also been a partner, says, ''No one believed they'd just round up and shoot 90 people - that's the way you treat peons, not partners.'' He and some other Bainies still on staff believe that the targets were chosen at random.
Not so, says Bill Bain, who also points out that the firm hired outplacement consultants to ease the process. ''When you're dealing with something this emotional,'' he adds, ''what's best for all is a very counter-intuitive approach'' - which is to say, unemotional.
BAIN IS GENERALLY PER-ceived as holding its own. Between 1985 and 1987, James Kennedy claims, revenues doubled. According to Kennedy, revenues are now rising at an annual rate of about 10 percent. The fact that the client list has doubled in the last two years, while revenue growth was down, suggests that the firm has not had great success at attracting as many big-ticket, ''relationship'' clients.
One that got away, says a former Bain consultant, was Canadian Pacific. Bain handled projects for several of the company's divisions, but failed to penetrate the core railroad business. According to the Bain alumnus, instead of growing into a client on a par with Dun & Bradstreet, one of the firm's largest and oldest clients, Canadian Pacific ended its relationship after only a few years.
In Europe, where consultants are being deluged with business as companies prepare for economic unification, Bain has apparently been unable to find another client on the scale of Guinness. Still, with offices in London, Milan, Munich, Paris and Tokyo, the firm derives about a third of its revenue overseas.
Bill Bain contemplates the future with outward equanimity. He says all is well; that he would consider buying another firm, though he has nothing particular in mind; that he would consider a merger, though no company at the moment ''would make sense to us right now.'' There have been rumors in the industry that Bain might be bought by one of the big accounting firms. Would he sell his company? He responds, ''I always say never say never,'' but goes on to outline with his usual thoroughness just why it is not likely to happen.
At 9:30 on an August evening, Bill Bain sat in his office, listening patiently to the last question of the last interview, which had begun four hours earlier. Given the firm's obsession with secrecy, its determined public silence, why had he decided now to open up? He spoke of his pride in the firm and its accomplishments. ''What we actually do here,'' said Bill Bain firmly, ''isn't that mysterious.''
 
Enter The Accountants
IN 1971, MARVIN BOWER, A FORMER MANAGING DIRECTOR OF MCKINSEY & COMPANY, resigned as president of the Institute of Management Consultants, a leading professional association, to protest the admission of consultants from accounting firms. Such was the sentiment about letting mere number crunchers into the ranks of the prestige consulting firms.
The accountants ignored the slight and proceeded, in their methodical way, to take over. ''They just didn't pay attention to what the outside world said, and now they're the biggest players,'' says E. Michael Shays, the national director of the consulting practice at New York City-based BDO Seidman. Consulting revenues for the eight largest accounting firms last year totaled $3.9 billion, almost one-third of the consulting revenues tracked by Consultants News, a Fitzwilliam, N.H., publication.
Accounting firms got into consulting in a big way in the 50's with the advent of computerization. Early applications involved inventory control, payroll management and other back-office functions; the auditors were ideal candidates for advice on how to turn streams of data into useful information.
The upstarts were tolerated so long as they did not compete head-on with consultants. Ceding to accounting firms the more tedious tasks and ''cost-reduction studies'' - otherwise known as layoffs - that can leave middle management embittered, the consulting firms hoped to keep larger fields such as dereg-ulation, global competitiveness and mergers to themselves.
Still, all of those little pesky chores added up. ''When a $500 million company becomes a $2.7 billion one,'' says a McKinsey consultant, ''they'll remember Arthur Andersen helped them do it.'' And hire them again.
Indeed, Andersen recently helped the Swiss set up a computerized ''trading floor'' for futures and options. And a group of blue-jean-clad Andersen employees spent the summer videotaping workers on the factory floor of Harley-Davidson in an effort to foolproof a new line of small trucks. Andersen's contribution: color-coordinating the tools and chassis parts to insure proper assembly. Just in case a worker is color-blind, colors are spelled out on each part.
But the accounting firms' consultants have yet to parlay such experience into a reputation for getting big strategy engagements. ''They might have a little corner of the practice or a door with a sign on it that says 'strategic planning' division,'' says James H. Kennedy, publisher of Consultants News, ''but they're not in the same league.''
WITHIN SOME OF THE ACCOUNTING FIRMS, THE roaring success of the consulting operations has proven divisive, with consultants demanding an ever larger share of the firms' resources and profits. The two groups have also clashed over clients.
Two years ago, Andersen's consultants wanted to bid on a NASA contract jointly with Grumman Data Systems, a subsidiary of the Grumman Corporation; Andersen's accountants audit Grumman's books. But Securities and Exchange Commission rules ban auditors from having shared business interests with audit clients. That left Andersen with a choice: withdraw the bid or relinquish the audit. It kept the audit. ''When you're run by auditors, you tend to reach the former conclusion rather quickly,'' comments Gresham Brebach Jr., the former head of Andersen's American consulting practice, who says he left to form Information Consulting Group because of such clashes.
The risk of flare-ups is expected to increase now that a wave of mergers is whittling the Big Eight into a Big Five. But overall, the consulting arms of the accounting firms could emerge from the consolidation more formidable competitors than ever. A merger of Andersen and Price Waterhouse, still far from certain, would catapult the pair far ahead of the pack with $1.5 billion in consulting revenues - more than McKinsey, Booz-Allen & Hamilton, Bain & Company and the Boston Consulting Group combined.
Sheer size should help the accounting firms' consulting arms. Systems integration, a fast-growing niche wherein a consultant takes responsibility for a computer project from start to finish, may require that the consulting company make huge investments in technology. Being big may also yield dividends with managements, who prefer hiring large, established names, and in the recruiting wars, both on campus and in the ranks of the profession.
Touche Ross (which will merge with Deloitte, Haskins & Sells) snared 14 would-be consultants from the first-year class at the Harvard Business School by dangling salaries of $1,500 a week as bait. Coopers & Lybrand recently hired John Neuman, a former McKinsey specialist, while another well-regarded McKinsey consultant, Iain Somerville, joined Andersen.
It will be interesting to see how the accounting firms deal with their mergers. Andersen may seek outside help if it merges its operations with Price Waterhouse, even though Andersen itself counsels clients on consummating mergers. Says Peter H. Fuchs, head of strategic services at Andersen, ''It's often helpful to have an objective and outside perspective.'' ALISON LEIGH COWAN

GRAPHIC: photos of Bill Bain; John MacKay, Steve Skaggs and Steve Laub

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DGE (PAR) (93%); DGE (LSE) (93%); DEO (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (93%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (93%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (93%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (93%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DIAGEO PLC (93%); BAIN & CO (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: GUINNESS PLC; BAIN & CO

SUBJECT: STOCKS (CORPORATE); VIOLATIONS OF SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES REGULATIONS; CONSULTANTS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ACCOUNTING (75%); LAWYERS (72%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: GALLESE, LIZ ROMAN; BAIN, WILLIAM W JR; ROUX, OLIVER; SAUNDERS, ERNEST STEVEN LAUB (62%); 



582 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 22, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 4098 words

HEADLINE: Rainmaker: Mario Baeza Of Devevoise

BYLINE: By Stephen Labaton; Stephen Labaton covers legal affairs for The New York Times.

 BODY:
MARIO BAEZA LOOKS TROUBLED. IT IS A GRAY Tuesday morning in June and Baeza, a partner at the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton in New York, is sitting with a group of his colleagues in his 22d floor office, a diamond-shaped room with a dramatic view of Third Avenue.
''It's not going to work,'' says Baeza, a trim 38-year-old who stands 5 feet 9 inches tall and sports a mustache and goatee. He shakes his head, looking at a stack of stapled papers analyzing a deal code-named ''TIN MAN.''
''As it's structured, the directors are going to get sued to hell,'' Baeza says, in his calm, measured manner. ''They just can't deliver the company up on a platter. It's a nonstarter.'' 
Baeza's client, the New York-based investment banking firm of Kelso & Company, wants to buy the company. Joseph S. Schuchert, Kelso's chief executive, is convinced that the management team of one of his own companies, could help to increase TIN MAN's earnings. Schuchert also thinks the stock is undervalued, that the market has failed to reflect the true worth of the company's large real estate holdings.
The proposal Schuchert has laid on Baeza's desk calls for Kelso to buy the shares owned by an executive who is interested in cashing in his holdings - shares that, though considerably less than 50 percent, represent a controlling interest in the company. Kelso would pay almost double the price at which the shares are trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The executive and his allies on the board would resign, to be replaced by Kelso representatives. Eventually, TIN MAN could borrow against the company's assets to take the company private, streamline the operation and possibly go public again, a move that could prove highly lucrative.
But Baeza has his doubts. He fears that Kelso's purchase of the executive's block of stock, and the change in the board, would amount to what is known in securities law as a change in control. And any change in control requires an auction of the company to the highest bidder, a process to be avoided because the stock price would soar. Later that afternoon, Baeza conveys the bad news to Schuchert. ''I think we have some restructuring to do,'' Baeza says over his speaker phone.
''That's a diplomatic way of saying I'm screwing up what I want to do,'' Schuchert replies.
Baeza outlines the problem with Schuchert's plan: ''It amounts to a premium for one shareholder and not enough for the others.'' The board members, including the executive, would be ''abdicat-ing their responsibilities.''
''What if we ask him not to resign?'' Schuchert asks.
''That's helpful, but you get no control,'' Baeza responds.
The two continue discussing strategy.
''Twenty years ago, this was uncomplicated. You bought shares and that was that,'' Schuchert says. ''But that was before the Delaware law,'' says Baeza, a reference to the state where the target company, like many of the nation's leading businesses, is incorporated. ''Delaware merger law requires you to get consent of the board. Now the board's got some duties.''
The two men finally agree that Schuchert will meet with the executive to seek a preliminary agreement on the price and terms of the stock sale. Meanwhile, Baeza and his colleagues will try to figure out a way to get the deal done.
Two days later, Schuchert reports a success on his end, and Baeza is ready. His solution: Kelso would set up a holding company as a vehicle through which a Kelso company and the target company would merge; the new entity, with a reconstituted board, would then buy out the executive and pay other shareholders cash and securities. Control would be obtained without a costly auction.
FOR BAEZA, THE TIN man project is only the latest in a string of Kelso transactions. As is true of most buyout firms, fewer than half of the proposed deals reviewed by Kelso ever see the light of day. A competitor may come in with a higher bid. The target company may simply turn down Kelso's offer - the end of the line, since Kelso does not mount hostile takeovers.
Whatever the outcome, Debevoise and Baeza benefit. The Kelso connection has made Baeza (pronounced Buy-ay-sa) a deal maker extraordinaire, bringing high-stakes Wall Street takeovers to the middle-sized firm. The son of a man with a master's degree in economics who had to wait tables at Nedick's because of the color of his skin, Mario L. Baeza last year generated more than $12 million in billings at a firm with gross revenues of $119 million and 84 partners. He was born in Montclair, N.J., in 1951, the oldest of two sons of Marco Antonio and Alma Baeza. The family moved to Havana, Cuba, when he was two-and-a-half years old, then back to Montclair four years later just before the revolution broke out. His father, who was chairman of the department of economics, marketing and research at Seton Hall University, died of congenital heart disease at age 42 in 1965.
''I think about him every day,'' Baeza says. ''My skills as a deals lawyer came from him. He would have a cigar in one hand, and a brandy in the other, and he would throw out hypotheticals all the time.'' His mother is a special- education teacher in the Newark public school system.
In grammar school, Baeza was the only black student. His father's advice: ''Under no circumstances are you to let people call you names. I'd rather see you at the hospital bloodied.'' The first month, he had a fight every day. ''I was small but it didn't matter,'' he says, ''because my father said I could do it.''
At high school, Baeza proved to be gifted in several fields, including the outfield, where he played on the school team, eliciting an offer to join an Atlanta Braves farm team. He turned it down. He was elected president of the junior class and the student council. And he organized a band called Mario and the Immortals - he played guitar - that performed in New York City on weekends. ''We would play gigs on Friday night until past 2 in the morning,'' he remembers, ''go for food afterward and be done at about 4. We'd have to be ready for 8 o'clock baseball, so we would sleep in the car by the ball field to make sure that we didn't miss practice.''
Following in his father's footsteps, Baeza enrolled at Cornell University. His senior thesis traced the origins of Greek philosophy to the Egyptians and then sought to show that the Egyptians were black. He completed Cornell in three years, with a triple major in economics, government and psychology and a near-perfect grade-point average.
Upon arriving at Harvard Law School in the fall of 1971, Baeza says, he was troubled by the Socratic method, which emphasizes a dispassionate precision of analysis of legal procedure and precedent. ''They were teaching you to be enslaved to it,'' he recalls. ''I was afraid that if I got successful at it, I would be able to defend the Dred Scott decision. And I was deathly afraid that I would look at Brown v. Board of Education and say, 'There's a jurisdictional problem here, this isn't the right venue,' or some garbage like that.
''You sit at Harvard Law School with portraits of these huge legends on the wall staring back at you - all white faces - some of whom had argued in such a way that they would not have let me become a member of the bar. White students did not have to deal with that.
''There were 165 students in each section, maybe six other black students, and we all suffered the black tax. A professor calls on a black, and how he answers is a direct reflection on me. One guy answers badly, and everyone turns and looks at me. And I can't stand up and shout and beat my breast and say, 'Hey, I'm not here on some affirmative action. I got a 3.97 average at Cornell.' ''
When it came time to find a job, Baeza narrowed his choices down to Debevoise and Davis Polk & Wardwell. After discovering that John W. Davis had argued on the losing side of Brown v. Board of Education, he picked Debevoise.
FOUNDED IN 1931 BY ELI WHIT-ney Debevoise and William Stevenson, soon to be joined by Francis T. P. Plimpton, the firm is the very model of a white-shoe institution, a pillar of the establishment bar. Its early reputation was built largely on the Government careers of the founding partners. Debevoise became counsel to the High Commissioner for Germany in the early 50's. Plimpton gained national prominence as a delegate to the United Nations for Presidents Kennedy and Johnson. Stevenson became ambassador to the Philippines and president of Oberlin College.
The present partners include several former senior Government officials and general counsels to major corporations. Some 49 percent of the lawyers attended Harvard, Columbia or Yale. The firm has nine former Supreme Court clerks, and close to a third of the lawyers have clerked for Federal judges. It also boasts that none of the partners has ever left to join another law firm.
This was the world into which Mario Baeza stepped in 1974. During his first few years, he primarily handled private debt and equity placement for insurance companies and large institutional investors, almost all of which could be done by telephone without meeting clients.
''I've always tried to look past a lot of what was said,'' Baeza recalls. ''My father once told me never to sit idly if someone calls you 'boy' and never to let anyone pat you on the head. I remember after completing some work, an older partner came in and patted me on the head and said, 'That's a good boy.' ''
Debevoise is loosely organized around five practice groups: corporate, litigation, tax, trusts and estates and real estate. Within those groups are ''secondary practice areas'' in which partners and associates specialize, the largest of which are securities and mergers and acquisitions. Lawyers at the firm say there is no rigid system of supervision, though partners are expected to attend a weekly luncheon.
Determined to become a partner, Baeza quickly selected the area in which he would specialize, and during his second year as an associate returned to Harvard to take a summer course in securities law. He then asked George N. Lindsay, a senior Debevoise partner whose brother, John, is the former mayor of New York, to be assigned to work on Cooper Laboratories, a major client involved in dozens of acquisitions. He was made partner in 1982, almost eight years after joining the firm.
Baeza's big break came the following year when Kelso walked in the door. Joseph Schuchert had decided to abandon his law firm, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, which represents many takeover companies, because of recurrent conflicts of interest. The meeting with Baeza had been arranged by Rick Johnson, a Baeza classmate at Harvard, who at the time was a Kelso partner.
The combination seemed unlikely to work. Baeza had no experience with employee stock ownership plans, the vehicle Kelso uses to finance most of its acquisitions. In addition, Debevoise had instituted a freeze on new clients. But a certain chemistry developed between him and the Kelso executives, and Baeza ignored the freeze.
Since then, Kelso has become one of Debevoise's five largest clients. ''We keep going back to the well,'' Schuchert says. ''Mario is a large reason for our successes. He's a guy who pretty much came up on his own and is still humble about himself. I call it quiet power.'' T HE INVESTMENT FIRM WAS founded in 1970 by Joseph Schuchert and Louis O. Kelso. Trained as a lawyer, Kelso, 75, is widely regarded as the father of the employee stock-ownership plan, which was initially hailed as a means of achieving broader ownership of American capital. It was Schuchert, also a California lawyer, who concentrated on peddling ESOP's to corporate America and on Wall Street.
The theory is that by selling shares of a company to its workers, management is able to increase employee interest in the fate of the enterprise, and hence productivity. ESOP's sometimes also make it possible for management to trim costly pension plans. The greatest incentive for corporations to adopt the plans, however, came from Congress. Legislation has been enacted that significantly limits the taxes a company must pay on the proceeds of a stock sale to workers, as opposed to other ways to finance company activities.
Money raised through an ESOP may be used by the company to fund capital expenditures or finance other corporate activities. But in practice, the real profits are likely to come through the use of employee stock plans to finance the buyout of public companies. Once such a company has been revamped, it is typically taken public again, reaping staggering returns. If all goes as planned, the members of the employee stock plan may realize a bonanza. Baeza says he was seduced by ESOP's in an early deal when he learned that a secretary at the company involved had made a profit of $150,000.
In this field, Kelso is preeminent. Since Kelso first invested its own money in an ESOP-financed buyout in 1980, the company has completed more than 30 transactions as a principal, investing nearly $7 billion. Its investment portfolio has had a compound annual rate of return of more than 110 percent.
Critics contend that this use of ESOP's can put corporate retirement plans at risk. They also charge that by increasing the share of a company held by its employees, ESOP's can make a takeover more difficult, leaving a possibly incompetent management firmly in control. But for many a company concerned about being a possible takeover target, the employee stock plans are just what the doctor ordered.
Over the last two years, more than 200 public companies have established ESOP's. Polaroid used the strategy this year to ward off an attack by Shamrock Holdings Inc., an affiliate of Roy E. Disney. The ESOP plan adopted by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich in 1987 to thwart a hostile takeover by Robert Maxwell, the British publisher, was devised by Mario Baeza.
But the use of an employee stock plan is not a foolproof defense. The Department of Labor has recently advised that, under certain conditions, the ESOP trustee, who determines how the shares will be voted, has an obligation to cast his ballot in the best interest of the participants. That could mean a victory for the bidder. ''There will be instances when plans will come back to bite management,'' says Schuchert. KELSO'S $3 BILLION BUYOUT OF American Standard, manufacturer of plumbing fixtures, was the most complex task Baeza ever tackled, and among the largest in Debevoise's history. During a 45-day period in March and April of 1988, the firm billed more than 10,000 lawyer hours. Some 3.25 million copies of documents had to be duplicated.
The first task faced by Baeza and his team was to find a way to fend off a competing offer for American Standard from Black & Decker. Two months after the contest began, at Baeza's suggestion, Kelso offered to pay Black & Decker $25 million for its expenses, and the toolmaker agreed to walk away.
The Debevoise lawyers then devised the means to finance the buyout through a series of asset transfers to new subsidiaries, currency swaps, stock pledges and an ESOP - while avoiding as much tax liability as possible. The deal required supervision of lawyers in more than a dozen other countries where American Standard does business.
''I came away thinking Baeza was thoughtful and reasonably intelligent, serving his client well, while he was cooperative in helping me serve my client,'' says David M. Kies, a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell, which represented American Standard. The shareholders in the American Standard buyout have already seen the stock rise by more than 170 percent.
Beyond Kelso, Debevoise has used its new ESOP expertise to advise institutional clients, often insurance companies, who act as lenders, putting up cash to finance the issuing of new stock. Fifty percent of the interest income from these loans is tax-free, though there are moves in Congress to trim this advantage. Lawyers at the firm say that in the first half of 1989, Debevoise has done some $3.2 billion worth of these private placements.
The American Standard deal, along with several other large transactions, made 1988 the best year ever for Debevoise. The firm had revenue per lawyer of about $435,000 and average profits per partner of $610,000, according to The American Lawyer, ranking the firm as the 17th most profitable in the nation.
Baeza drew about $600,000 from the partnership last year. His hourly billing rate is between $300 and $400 an hour. Senior partners at the firm bill about $400, while the time of junior associates is billed at about $100. Debevoise has adopted, rather belatedly, the practice of premium billing, a growing trend among Wall Street law firms to charge clients a higher hourly rate on the biggest and most taxing deals. O NE MEASURE OF THE DIS-tance Mario Baeza has traveled in his climb to prominence at Debevoise is his close working relationship with Roswell B. Perkins, a senior partner and the quintessential establishment lawyer.
''Mario walks on water in Perkins's view,'' says a Debevoise corporate lawyer, ''and that is ironic. Rod is Fifth Avenue, New York high society and has been for decades. Before Mario made it, the only blacks here were in the mailroom. Now, Rod quotes Mario to others, saying, 'Mario says this and Mario says that.' ''
Perkins regularly refers clients to Baeza. Last summer, for example, Perkins urged executives of the Bessemer Securities Corporation, the investment arm of the Phipps steel fortune, to rely on Baeza to supervise a $300 million tender offer for Core-Mark International, a large distributor of tobacco products.
An indication of the relationship between the two men came last June when a Debevoise team, led by Baeza and Perkins, helped Kelso establish a $500 million war chest to finance leveraged buyouts. A major stumbling block was a requirement laid down by the New York State pension fund, one of the investment fund's largest players. The state insisted that when deals of equal potential arose, the investment fund should pursue the New York deal. That, of course, was not apt to sit well with investors from other states. The New York fund also demanded that the investment fund devise specific guidelines as to what constitutes a hostile takeover - a form of buyout in which the state fund refused to participate.
After considerable negotiation, Baeza told the advisers to the New York fund that no two deals are ever so equal that the question of their location would arise. He also told the state's lawyers that any precise definition of what constitutes a hostile bid was virtually impossible, particularly since so many of the Kelso offers involve management-led buyouts. He proposed that the fund's managers formulate some guidelines on the issue that would satisfy New York's concerns yet be flexible enough to allow Kelso to pursue deals it was interested in. In the end, the pension fund planned to invest $50 million.
Late one night, while Debevoise was still setting up the Kelso fund, Roswell Perkins found himself working at his desk, laboring to meet a tight deadline to close the deal. The senior partner's telephone rang. It was Baeza, the junior partner, checking in to see how Perkins was doing. Baeza had taken time off from a gala dinner he was attending, marking the 20th anniversary of the Dance Theater of Harlem; his wife, Della, is co-chairman.
Perkins smiles benignly when the episode is recounted. ''I enjoy enormously working with Mario,'' he says. ''He's a superb lawyer. He's highly analytical and perceptive, yet extremely pragmatic.''
As the firm's premier dealmaker, Baeza puts in his own share of torturous hours - he is not of the 9-to-5 persuasion. He has too many irons in the fire, professionally and personally. ''He gives us more responsibility than most other partners,'' says an associate at the firm. ''The upside is that unlike some, he's not always looking over your shoulder. He's also not stuffy or pretentious, as some partners are. The downside is that it can be a major effort to find him and sit him down and find out when he has time for you.''
Baeza has taught a course at Harvard Law School on emerging technologies and the law and is a member of the New York State Commission on Life and the Law, which issues recommendations for legislation in such areas as euthanasia and surrogate parenting. Tennis occupies part of his week. He is a composer whose works have been performed by Roberta Flack, a longtime friend. (She compares his composing talent to that of Elton John and Stevie Wonder.) And, as he did in high school, he leads a professional band that performs in New York clubs. Some years ago, the Baeza Connection played at an American Bar Association reception. Rock and jazz were the order of the day, and most of those attending seemed to enjoy the music, seldom heard at gatherings of the tradition-bound profession. A number of the older lawyers, however, visibly uneasy, plugged their ears with their fingers.
Says Kelso's Schuchert, with a grin, ''I hate him because he's good at too many things.''
While Kelso takes up about 60 percent of Baeza's time, his client list includes some major Harlem businesses, enterprises that have historically been eschewed by larger law firms. Says a Debevoise associate, ''He gives them the same service and attention as he does Kelso.'' He also charges his standard hourly fee.
One of Baeza's oldest clients is the Harlem Commonwealth Council, a nonprofit community development organization. Baeza has advised the council on the financing and other legal arrangements for a $21.5 million office tower it is developing next to the Apollo Theater on 125th Street. He is also advising the council on a $500 million hotel and office project in Washington that is a joint venture with the Western Development Corporation. Eugene Jackson, the founder of Mutual Black Network News and owner of several radio and cellular phone operations, has hired Baeza to help shape a bid for construction of the $160 million International Trade Center on Lenox Avenue.
In many of the Harlem deals, Baeza assists clients in formulating proposals for government and private funds and then oversees the complex legal work that accompanies such start-up projects. ''What's fun about this side of work is seeing jobs develop, seeing it happen,'' says Baeza. ''It's nice after doing tender offers. But often the issues are harder. The trade center, which entails funding from the State of New York as well as private sources, is a tougher deal because it is a private-public mix. All-private or all-public deals are usually easier.''
Baeza's office telephone has a direct line to the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, where he is a member of the board. He is also a trustee at Cornell University, where he is particularly active in raising funds for minority scholarships.
Young black associates at Debevoise say they see Baeza as their guardian spirit. ''We all look to him,'' says Frank Gonzalez, a fifth-year associate. ''He talks to us regularly about the review process. But there's something special beyond that. I can go into his office, close the door and talk to Mario. It's a brother-to-brother conversation, like two blacks talking on the street.''
WITH HIS WIFE, WHO IS a graduate of Columbia Law School, and their two daughters, Baeza lives in a spacious house in Englewood, N.J. The couple met during the last week in December, 1983, at a contract closing. He was representing Gil Noble, the television journalist who was setting up the National Black Archives of Film and Broadcasting. She was representing ABC Television, which was contributing 13 years of ''Like It Is'' programs.
''I had seen his name on some legal papers and thought, Mario, he must be Italian,'' she recalls. Three days after meeting him, she went to a New Year's Eve party at his house. Within three months they were married. She has since curtailed her practice, spending more of her time with their daughters and with the Dance Theater of Harlem.
As the 1992 economic unification of Europe draws near, Baeza talks about tilting his practice more toward international finance. He says he has turned down offers to join the growing number of deal-making lawyers who have become investment bankers. But one firm that has not tried that tack is Kelso. ''It would be too great a loss if we lost him as our lawyer,'' Schuchert says. Then he adds, ''I would be surprised, but not very surprised, if he left to play music.''

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 1989, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article today on page 22 of The Business World, part 2 of The Times Magazine, about Mario Baeza, a partner at the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton, appears without a byline.
The article is by Stephen Labaton.

GRAPHIC: photos of Mario Baeza

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (93%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DEBEVOISE & PLIMPTON LLP (93%); KELSO & CO INC (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEBEVOISE & PLIMPTON; KELSO & CO

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); GOING PRIVATE (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); AUCTIONS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); REAL ESTATE (68%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); SECURITIES LAW (63%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN; BAEZA, MARIO



583 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 44, Column 4; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: UNIVERSITY PRESSES;
ABOUT YOUR BOOK ...

BYLINE: By DANIEL MENAKER; Daniel Menaker is an editor at The New Yorker.

 BODY:

GETTING PUBLISHED
The Acquisition Process at University Presses.
By Paul Parsons.
256 pp. Knoxville:
University of Tennessee Press. Cloth, $29.95.
Paper, $14.95.
In case anyone believes that university presses still operate solely in the dusty backyard of American publishing, he should stop and consider that 20 percent of all the National and American Book Awards since 1950 have gone to university press books. How this large and increasingly influential sector of publishing selects, edits and markets the 4,000 books it produces every year is the subject of Paul Parsons' ''Getting Published: The Acquisition Process at University Presses.'' This book will satisfy one's curiosity about the field, if one has a curiosity about the field. But much of it consists of the sort of careful, masonry-like, maddeningly well-documented writing that one associates with the dustier kind of university press volume:
''Manuscripts judged worthy by scholars in the field then advance to the third and final stage, review by the editorial committee. A group of home-campus faculty members and administrators serves as the final authority in determining whether to publish a work.'' 
How could it be otherwise? One is as likely to take an exhilarating voyage of intellectual discovery in the acquisition process at university presses as in the history of adhesive tape. And what we learn seldom departs from what we would have expected or even guessed:
* Editors at university presses generally see their function as the advancement and dissemination of knowledge.
* A university press usually specializes in certain fields or in certain topics, depending on the scholarly traditions of the institution it is affiliated with, or on regional factors, or on the interests of the editors.
* Very few university press books come in over the transom.
* Acquisition often follows personal contact between editor and writer/scholar or upon the endorsement of a young academic meteor by an older academic star.
* Competition for good books is growing keener.
* A university press's frontlist (new books) must to some degree complement its backlist (older books still in print).
* The decision to publish a book takes into account not only the manuscript's scholarly merit but its financial prospects, writing quality and suitability to the press's list as well.
Etcetera. For the most part, Mr. Parsons goes on in the same lawn-mowing style - ''Overall, competition is viewed positively by editors'' - with a few livelier anecdotes sprinkled in:
''Some editors rebel against main titles so literary or poetic that the reader has no idea what the book is about. One former editor did a spoof on the title Vision and Response, offering a set of possible subtitles:
''Vision and Response: A Study in Optics ''Vision and Response: A Case Study in Urban Renewal ''Vision and Response: The Mormon Trek Westward ''Vision and Response: The Effects of Pinups on Healthy Adolescent Males.''
So the bulk of this book will hold interest primarily for those directly or indirectly involved with the subject - university press editors themselves, editors of popular books, college administrators, fresh Ph.D.'s who want to avoid perishing, and so forth. For them, ''Getting Published'' will provide genuine insight and perhaps even guidance, however stolidly presented.
It is only the last quarter of the book that might take hold of the lay reader. Here Mr. Parsons, who teaches journalism and mass communications at Kansas State University, discusses the expansion of academic publishing into the area of trade books; the presses' new courtship of controversy; the question of whether scholarship is in any way served by the publication of fiction or poetry; the kinds of book series that are springing up all over the academic landscape; the grand projects that only university presses can undertake (such as the University of Chicago Press's publication of ''The Complete Works of Giuseppe Verdi''); the technological advances that hold the prospect of printouts of books on demand - thus eliminating ''brown mountain'' inventories in a warehouse; the ebb and flow of interest in various fields of scholarship; the plowing of new ones, such as historical geography and business history; and editors' fear of topics too hot to handle, like the racial theories of Arthur Jensen, the educational psychologist.
These topics lie a bit to the side of the domain of the acquisition process at university presses, but that's just as well since wandering away from the straight road of getting published appears to lighten Mr. Parsons' prose feet a little:
''At Yale, the papers of Benjamin Franklin have been appearing one volume a year for more than two decades, with at least two more decades to go. Yale also has begun work on the papers of an entire family - the Peales. In a showdown of families, Harvard is planning at least one hundred volumes for the Adams family papers.''
In a word or two, then, Mr. Parsons' book is a helpful and sometimes interesting work. But we should probably begin to worry at the next stage - when some scholar writes a book about books about getting published at university presses.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: REVIEW

TITLE: GETTING PUBLISHED (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (92%); 

CITY: KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF TENNESSEE (84%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); CASE STUDIES (78%); ADHESIVES & SEALANTS (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (71%); THEATER REVIEWS (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MENAKER, DANIEL; PARSONS, PAUL CHRISTIAN PAUL (71%); 



584 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2716 words

HEADLINE: FROM THE CAMPUSES: ADVENTURES IN PUBLISHING

BYLINE: By ROY REED; Roy Reed teaches journalism at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville.

 BODY:
How much simpler this country would be if it had stalled out at 13 states. Most of the complicated mountains, climates and ethnic cultures would lie west of the border, as would all of the intimidating plains and deserts. Visiting the Great Lakes would be a foreignJU adventure.
It is possible to believe in some such abbreviated nation if you study the paperback titles and commercial best sellers at any popular bookstore. An interplanetary intellectual set down at the book stand in O'Hare International Airport would quickly surmise that the United States was an uninterrupted urban mass inhabited by a prosperous race with a taste for mystery, horror, sex and self-indulgence. Except for an occasional western by Louis L'Amour or a Gothic romance set in Dixie, the books would reveal a practically seamless America, free of landscape and geography, with just enough human differences to provide a plot line for a movie. 
Fortunately, book publishing in the United States is not left entirely to the conglomerates that fill the airport book stands. There is a thriving publishing industry among university presses. Traditionally, these enterprises have mainly printed works of scholarship, but in recent generations they have moved into other areas as well. One of their current enthusiasms is regional titles - books that recognize bumps in the American map, books that show the upheavals and extremities, the grizzly bears and jack rabbits, above all the fierce cultural diversity that thrives beyond the constricted coastal ribbon that runs between Boston and Washington.
''American commercial publishing has been dominated by New York and the Northeast. Many areas of the country had no voice,'' Kenneth Cherry, director of the University Press of Kentucky, said recently. ''Many books of regional interest would not be widely disseminated if it were not for state university presses. The university presses are really important as our culture becomes more homogeneous, dominated by groups that control our national communications networks.''
Ben H. Bagdikian, the media critic, recently declared that five corporations dominate the world's communications industry. All five publish books, among other endeavors.
Three are especially interesting for the famous old names they now own. Time Warner, the newest conglomerate in the field, owns not only Warner mass-market paperbacks but also Little, Brown & Company, Scott, Foresman & Company, Time-Life Books and the Book-of-the-Month Club. A German company, Bertelsmann, owns Doubleday, Bantam Books, Dell and the Literary Guild. Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation owns Harper & Row and a big piece of Viking Penguin.
These huge companies compete for proven, risk-free ideas. They want books that make money, that will spin off readily into movies, television shows, paperbacks and T-shirts. That means hugging the beaten path. You will not find regional, small-market books on that path.
Imagine Bertelsmann's Doubleday arranging an appearance on the ''Today'' show for George W. Knepper so that he could talk about his new book, ''Ohio and Its People.'' Mr. Knepper has a sure grasp of Ohio's history and culture, and he shows a certain knack for phrase-making: ''Ohio was a salad bowl of peoples, not a melting pot.'' But would anyone at Doubleday consider ''Ohio and Its People'' a potential best seller? Kent State University Press published the book this year, even though it does not expect to get rich from the sales.
Or imagine Harper & Row publishing the 11-volume ''Journals of the Lewis and Clark Expedition.'' The University of Nebraska Press did not hold its breath waiting. It has already published five volumes, and the sixth is due next spring.
At a cost of several hundred dollars a set, the ''Journals'' will not be a blockbuster best seller. No one at Harper & Row will regret passing them up.
Diane K. Wanek of the marketing department of the University of Nebraska Press put it this way: ''Only a nonprofit scholarly press could have successfully undertaken this ambitious publishing project in this era of 'bottom line' and 'cash flow' that the commercial publishing houses are living in today.''
What bottom-line commercial publisher would risk its cash flow on ''The Common Loon: Spirit of Northern Lakes'' by Judith W. McIntyre (University of Minnesota Press)? Or ''Cutthroat: Native Trout of the West'' by Patrick C. Trotter (Colorado Associated University Press)? Or ''Violence in the Model City,'' a study of the 1967 race riots in Detroit, by Sidney Fine (University of Michigan Press)?
For better or worse, 20th-century America is richly, crankily diverse. We are a nation of tribes and territories. Among the tribal concerns addressed in this year's lists from university presses are the following:
* ''Holding the Line: Women in the Great Arizona Mine Strike of 1983'' by Barbara Kingsolver (ILR Press, a division of the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations).
* ''The Last Resort: Success and Failure in Campaigns for Casinos'' by John Dombrink and William N. Thompson, on campaigns for legalized casino gambling in various regions. The publisher? The University of Nevada Press, of course. The same press has just published the first Basque-English dictionary, a reflection of the Basque influence in the far West.
* ''Thomas Morris Chester, Black Civil War Correspondent: His Dispatches From the Virginia Front'' by R. J. M. Blackett (Louisiana State University Press). Chester was the only black correspondent for a major daily newspaper during the Civil War. As a captain in a black company from Pennsylvania, he sent stories to The Philadelphia Press.
* ''Dark Journey'' by Neil R. McMillen (University of Illinois Press), on how it was being a black person in Mississippi during the time of Jim Crow.
* ''Even Mississippi'' by Melany Neilson (University of Alabama Press), on how it was being a Mississippi belle during the dying of Jim Crow. [Reviewed on page 49.] Nationally - that is, as we see ourselves on the evening news - we seem to be running away from our history, hoping to forget it. But out in the territories, among the tribes, history refuses to die.
The University of Arkansas Press this year republished one of the best histories of the state ever written. ''Arkansas,'' by John Gould Fletcher, was first published in 1947 by the University of North Carolina Press, a pioneer in regional publishing. It was in danger of being forgotten except by academics.
The book is not merely history. Mr. Fletcher, a native of Little Rock, spent much of his life in Europe in the company of people like Ezra Pound and Amy Lowell. He won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry in 1939. After returning to Arkansas, he became associated with the Agrarian movement and, possibly fired by that interest, he wrote an ode to his agrarian home.
Here is the way his mind saw the mountains of the Ozarks: ''These are divided by steep winding hollows, through which the streams straggle irregularly like the branches of a vine.''
And the empty cotton fields of the delta: ''From November to April here, nothing is to be seen but the frost-blackened ghosts of the plant, with a few white strands dangling, or the naked furrows of brown earth, already headed up for future planting.''
The big publishers have little interest in tribal matters, not even those that become strands of the national memory. One day a couple of years ago, I needed to know the birth date of Orval E. Faubus, the governor of Arkansas who became world-famous in 1957 for provoking the first constitutional crisis over school desegregation. He forced President Dwight D. Eisenhower to send the Army to Little Rock. I opened my desk copy of ''Webster's American Biographies,'' which boasts ''comprehensive, biographical information on more than 3,000 significant Americans, from Hank Aaron to Vladimir Zworykin.'' Mr. Faubus was not listed.
I decided on the spot to write a biography of him. I asked an agent to find a publisher. With some embarrassment, he reported that no one in New York wanted the book. Orval Faubus was no longer salable.
I am at work on the book, anyway. The University of Arkansas Press wants it.
The director of that press is Miller Williams. He has run it since it was founded in 1980 (which makes it one of the youngest of the 100 members and international affiliates of the Association of American University Presses). Like John Gould Fletcher, Mr. Williams is a poet and a man of strong language.
''When Bennett Cerf and Alfred Knopf were making the decisions, the commercial press published some books that they simply thought ought to be published,'' he said. ''They published out of a sense of duty and pride. They saw themselves as gentlemen publishers.
''Families no longer hold those companies. Corporations own them, and acquisitions are made as business decisions, by business people, not editorial people. They look at the profit and loss statement and decide that it would be hurt by publishing poetry or non-genre books or the non-blockbuster novel.''
The non-blockbusters find an increasingly chilly reception in the commercial press. Mr. Williams figures that Flannery O'Connor would have trouble selling ''Wise Blood'' to a commercial publisher today.
Mr. Bagdikian reports that after the German conglomerate bought Doubleday, it pruned the company's trade list by a third. That got rid of a lot of books that could not be spun off into movies, paperbacks or other profitable enterprises.
Beginning writers and those who have not achieved commercial success are further threatened by the quirks of the book distribution system, in which the non-blockbuster is not pushed by either salesmen or bookstores.
Mr. Williams said, ''I would almost say that the First Amendment guarantee is called into question if economic forces make it difficult to appeal to the larger society.''
Then there is the effrontery. Mr. Williams's friend John Ciardi, who died in 1986, was ready to send his selected poems - ''the all-time greatest hits by John Ciardi,'' as Mr. Williams put it - to his publisher, W. W. Norton, when, he told Mr. Williams, he learned that Norton had pulped the remaining copies of his last volume, ''For Instance,'' without notifying him. (Norton still publishes the paperback edition of the book.) The University of Arkansas Press was happy to become his publisher.
That was in 1983. Since then, Arkansas has published six volumes of poetry and prose by Mr. Ciardi. A seventh, a book of essays, will be published this fall.
University presses often resurrect books of national interest that the commercial publishers have dropped.
''Black Elk Speaks,'' the reflections of a holy man of the Sioux, told through the English of John G. Neihardt, was first published by Morrow in 1932. The book languished until the 1960's, when young Americans looking for spiritual reinforcement discovered it. The book was eventually taken up by the University of Nebraska Press, which probably will keep it in print for years to come.
The University of Texas Press last year reprinted ''The Raven,'' the Pulitzer Prize-winning biography of Sam Houston by Marquis James. The book was first printed by Bobbs-Merrill in 1929.
In 1935, Houghton Mifflin published ''The Texas Rangers'' by Walter Prescott Webb. The book flourished for a while, then was abandoned. The University of Texas Press picked it up in 1965 and has since run it through 12 printings.
''The Valley of Decision,'' the best-selling novel by Marcia Davenport, was published in 1942 by Charles Scribner's Sons. It faded from sight eventually. The University of Pittsburgh Press brought it out in paperback this year.
Indiana University Press last year published a reprint of one of Gene Stratton-Porter's novels, ''Laddie: A True Blue Story.'' It was originally published by Grosset & Dunlap in 1917.
The University of Arkansas Press picked up the Welsh poet R. S. Thomas when Mr. Williams learned that his commercial publisher, St. Martin's Press, had stopped publishing poetry. Arkansas has also resurrected two out-of-print novels by John E. Williams, ''Stoner'' and ''Butcher's Crossing.''
University presses have carved out other areas that seem not to interest the large commercial houses. Now that E. B. White is dead, for example, the big companies apparently see no future in publishing essays. University presses are printing a lot of them.
Specialty areas covered by university publishers can be quite extensive. No one prints more Southern history than Louisiana State University Press. Notre Dame and Catholic University of America have a lock on Irish and Irish Catholic studies. At least 31 university presses concern themselves with Asian studies, 27 with African studies, six with Judaic studies.
Practically every university press publishes a biography or two a year. Many of the subjects are local heroes and villains. Some are national and international figures. Harvard University Press this fall will publish a newly revised edition of Ernest Samuels' biography of Henry Adams and a new biography of Hector Berlioz by D. Kern Holoman.
Reference works have long been a strength of some of the larger presses. The Columbia Encyclopedia was first published by the Columbia University Press in 1935. The same press published the ''Columbia Literary History of the United States'' last year.
Harvard published in 1985 the first volume (A through C) of the Dictionary of American Regional English, edited by Frederic G. Cassidy. It goes from A, the indefinite article, sometimes pronounced er (''Jones Negro Myths 37 GA coast, Buh Tiger come out in er hurry, and dey graff hold er one anurrer'') to Czarnina (''traditional Polish soup made with duck's blood, pork, prunes, apples, and seasonings'').
For all their recent successes, university presses are not about to take over American publishing. Practically all of them are squeezed for money. Many are subsidized by their universities, and when university revenues suffer, so do the presses. Public universities are especially anxious now because of constricted Government funding. In addition, a large market for university press books, libraries, is shrinking. The libraries are hit by the same cut in public funding and have less money for buying books.
But the presses continue to expand. The 100 members of the Association of American University Presses published 6,964 new titles in 1988. That was almost a 70 percent increase in 10 years.
The presses are selling about $225 million worth of books a year. Euan H. Phillips, executive director of the association, said recently, ''Our statistics indicate that a cross-section of our membership raised their sales 36 percent over the last three years, with the smaller presses recording increases far above the average.''
The university presses are doing well, partly because of built-in economic advantages that the commercial houses do not enjoy. Many pay no rent for offices and warehouses. They get grants, endowments and low-interest loans. They are under little pressure to make a profit, although that advantage recedes a little each year as the host universities tighten their belts.
For tax reasons, commercial publishers do not keep large inventories of slow-selling books. University presses, exempt from this and other tax problems, can leisurely build their backlists. That makes the university publishers attractive to authors who like to see their books available for years after publication.
Some of these advantages are threatened, but not as seriously as the commercial competitors would perhaps like. There is evidence that the commercial houses are taking notice of their country cousins.
Donald Lamm, chairman and president of Norton, a speaker at the June meeting of the association, warned his noncommercial colleagues that they would meet ''stiff resistance'' if they poached trade titles from the commercial press. He also portrayed the university presses as operating from ''a privileged sanctuary: tax-free status, university subsidies, foundation grants, low-cost labor, below-market rents.''
No one had the bad manners to talk about publishing from the privileged sanctuary of a billion-dollar conglomerate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (62%); SIC0781 LANDSCAPE COUNSELING & PLANNING (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (80%); LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (63%); BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB INC (62%); FORESMAN & CO (62%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; UNIVERSITY PRESSES; BOOK TRADE BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); ETHNICITY (89%); LITERATURE (89%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); PAPERBACK PUBLISHING (76%); AIRPORTS (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (61%); BOOKSTORES (56%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: REED, ROY KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 



585 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 37, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: UNIVERSITY PRESSES;
HOW ONE RUSSIAN DREAM WENT AWRY

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER; Bill Keller is the Moscow bureau chief of The New York Times.

 BODY:

BEHIND THE URALS
An American Worker in Russia's City of Steel.
By John Scott.
Enlarged edition prepared by Stephen Kotkin.
306 pp. Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
Cloth, $27.50; Paper, $9.95.
In 1931, John Scott dropped out of the University of Wisconsin, itchy with wanderlust and disenchanted by the misery of the American Depression. He contemplated a motorcycle trip to Alaska, to be followed by a sea crossing in a homemade sailboat to Siberia and China. Instead, he took a welding course and embarked for Russia to help Joseph Stalin build a steel mill in Magnitogorsk, on the frozen eastern slope of the Ural Mountains - to, as he put it, ''lend a hand in the construction of a society which seemed to be at least one step ahead of the American.'' 
He hoped to join a people free from ''the fetishization of material possessions'' that his father, Scott Nearing, a radical economics professor at the University of Pennsylvania's prestigious Wharton School of Business, had taught him was a basic ill of American civilization. ''I was going to be one of many,'' he wrote, ''who cared not to own a second pair of shoes, but who built blast furnaces which were their own.''
Like John Reed, the American journalist who played cheerleader for the Bolshevik Revolution 15 years earlier, Scott kept detailed notes that he turned into a book. While Reed's ''Ten Days That Shook the World'' became a political classic, Scott's memoir, ''Behind the Urals,'' has remained a Russia-watcher's cult book. That is understandable. Scott is no match for Reed as a mythologizer, and his topic, Stalin's first five-year plan, is not the natural stuff of best sellers. Nor are his subjects heroic, like the firebrands of Petrograd; they are underfed and threadbare Russian peasants negotiating icy scaffolding in minus-35-degree Siberian winters to construct the world's largest steel mill.
Nonetheless, of the two memoirs, ''Behind the Urals,'' first published in 1942 and newly reissued with some valuable additions, is the more relevant to the Soviet Union of Mikhail S. Gorbachev. The city of steel that Scott helped erect is a microcosm of the problems Mr. Gorbachev has inherited: a crash-built and now collapsing industrial plant, a corrupt command economy, the chronic sacrifice of individual life and dignity and the brutal tradition of the police state. At a time when Americans are again flocking wide-eyed to celebrate seismic change in the Soviet Union, this memoir is a cautionary tale for those inclined to euphoria.
When Scott reached Magnitogorsk in September 1932, Stalin had just completed the forced collectivization of the nation's farmers, Lenin's experiment with a mixed economy had been crushed and a starving countryside had been cruelly pressed into service to feed the workers who would build new industry. ''We are fifty to one hundred years behind advanced countries,'' Stalin declared in a nationalistic exhortation to factory managers in 1931. ''We must cover this distance in ten years. Either we do this or they will crush us.''
Hunkered behind the Urals, 1,000 miles from the nearest hostile border, the ragtag people of Magnitogorsk set about building a defensible industrial stronghold. The work force consisted of Bashkiri sheepherders and displaced peasants, wide-eyed pioneers from the Young Communist League, petty criminals and a large number of foreign mercenaries and idealists.
Stalin, no economist, relied on ruthless administration to carry out his transformation of backward Russia. Central planning, which other countries had used as an expedient during World War I, was adopted as the basis of the entire economy. Scott calculated that about a third of the workers were forced labor, many of them former kulaks stripped of their farms in punishment for being more successful than their neighbors.
Methodically recording the grotesque mismanagement and cruelty, Scott noted that the managers at Magnitogorsk spend about half their time trying to wheedle the rivets to fulfill the impossible plans decreed from Moscow, the other half trying to devise ideologically correct excuses for falling short. Workers tumbled from blast furnaces because the scaffolding had been stripped for firewood. And as Stalin's paranoia played itself out in merciless purges, the few inventive managers disappeared in the company of the secret police. The victims of political repression were stacked atop the victims of cold and deprivation. ''I would wager that Russia's battle of ferrous metallurgy alone involved more casualties than the battle of the Marne,'' Scott writes. Elsewhere, he says that ''money was spent like water, men froze, hungered, and suffered, but the construction work went on with a disregard for individuals and a mass heroism seldom paralleled in history.''
With an attentive eye for detail, he describes exhausted workers assembling in the early morning dark; a foreman thawing an ink jar under a wood-burning stove before taking care of his paperwork; a horrifying visit to the local dentist, who wore a blood-spattered smock; a night at the local theater, where the company performed a propagandistic melodrama about a German school for spies. The prose sometimes reads like a stiff translation from the Russian, and a general reader will find rather too much about the workings of a rolling mill. But it is a rich portrait of daily life under Stalin.
As a foreigner and a gung-ho Communist, Scott was part of the elite, with freedom to travel widely in a region little visited by outsiders. He learned Russian, enrolled in the party university, married a Russian woman. Yet in the end he fell victim to the growing xenophobia. Shunned at the plant, he moved to Moscow, where he waited four years for permission to take his wife out of the country. He accepted this stoically, with the observation that ''Westerners have no place in Russia.''
Scott is at his worst when he stops being a chronicler of events and sets out to analyze, as he does in the book's confused closing chapter, ''What Makes Russia Click.'' Here, his awe at the audacity of the industrial transformation overrides both his moral indignation and his judgment.
Now that even Soviet thinkers are looking back on the 1930's as the period when the Communist dream went horribly awry, it is a little bizarre to read Scott's conclusion that, on balance, Stalin's brutality was justified. He writes, evidently without irony, that the kulaks were liquidated for ''the worthy cause of agricultural collectivization.'' After conveying the absurd horror of the purges and correctly tracing their roots to the Bolshevik intolerance of opposition, he then insists that the casualties of Magnitogorsk were vindicated by the Soviet Union's subsequent victory over Hitler, in which the tanks and guns from the Urals stronghold made a decisive difference.
As Stephen Kotkin, who teaches history at Princeton University and prepared this new edition of Scott's book, points out in his introduction, the notion that Stalin's frenetic version of industrialization was vital to the defeat of fascism is arguable, even leaving aside the moral questions. One can contend, as some Soviet historians now do, that the purges accompanying industrialization, not to mention Stalin's decimation of his officer corps on the eve of the war, weakened the country before the Nazi onslaught. Moreover, the Soviet Union prevailed despite Stalin's willful disregard of the evidence that Hitler was preparing to attack, a blunder that led in large part to the Nazi capture of roughly half of all Soviet industry.
In fact, Scott himself was far more disillusioned by his experience than he let on in his book, which was published when the United States and the Soviet Union were allied against Hitler. Some years after returning home in 1941, he became a devout anti-Communist missionary. Until his death in 1976, he traveled the world as a Time-Life editor and business consultant, preaching that a dangerously inhumane system lurked behind the seeming allures of Communism. Because of restrictions imposed by Scott's family, which did not follow Scott's political path, none of this is mentioned in Mr. Kotkin's introduction.
Scott could not have foreseen the extent to which Stalin failed even on his own terms. Yes, the achievements of industrialization were undeniable. By the late 1930's the Soviet Union had mines and factories approaching the level of Germany's, and the Russian peasantry had been recast as a literate (albeit disorganized and impoverished) blue-collar work force. But it was a country that knew how to move only at a forced march. And when the command center relaxed under Stalin's successors, the country slackened into indolence and corruption.
One wonders what Scott would make of Magnitogorsk today. It is a misbegotten place, a mockery of the utopian dream of an egalitarian workers' state. The vast steel mill is a good 20 years out of date, a wheezing dinosaur. Outside the satanic open-hearth furnaces, a mountain of slag blows about in the summer wind, adding grit to the foul, multicolored discharge from the smokestacks. The ideal socialist city that was to surround the plant was never realized. Most residents live either in domino high-rises of shoddy construction or in communal barracks. Meat, butter and sugar are still rationed, as they were in 1932.
Among the older inhabitants one finds a nostalgia for the boldness and clear purpose of Stalin's ''great change.'' But most of Magnitogorsk, given a chance, would probably succumb happily to the ''fetishization of material possessions'' that Scott in his youth was so determined to flee.

GRAPHIC: Photo of John Scott with fellow workers inthe Soviet Union, early 1930's (From ''Behind the Urals''/Courtesy Maria Scott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: REVIEW

TITLE: BEHIND THE URALS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (84%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); WRITERS (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL; SCOTT, JOHN JACK REED (79%); 



586 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 29, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: CRIME

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO

 BODY:
Early in Martha Grimes's 10th mystery, THE OLD SILENT (Little, Brown, $18.95), Richard Jury of Scotland Yard finds himself in need of ''a calm book'' - something to stave off one of those bouts of melancholy to which this romantic detective is inclined, and to ease the bleakness of a winter's day in Yorkshire. He notices that an attractive woman stopping at the inn where he's staying is reading Camus's ''Myth of Sisyphus.'' (''Not a calm book at all.'') He also notices when she pulls out a gun in the dining room and shoots her husband dead.
The calm moments in this moody mystery about parental ties and family schisms and relationships thicker than blood are as fine as anything Ms. Grimes has written. Her still, perfectly contained descriptions - of a fruit orchard desolate in winter; of the face of a woman lost in a memory of her dead child; of a sheep hunt on the moor after a snowstorm - concentrate the emotions of a scene without spilling a word. 
The same economy of style serves the author for the prickly-funny Dickensian characterizations that have become her trademark. As Jury trudges through Bronte country, puzzling over the enigmatic murderer and digging out the secrets of her past, he and his aristocrat friend, Melrose Plant, encounter many priceless specimens of local humanity, including a fiercely independent little girl Plant calls ''the Fury'' and another child so neat and clean she looks ''as if she'd been licked clean by cats.'' In one remarkable chase scene across the frozen moor, Ms. Grimes even manages an entirely credible entry into the minds of two dogs.
This American author who dares to write of things British and in a British idiom (each novel takes its title from a local pub that figures in the story) has developed her style well beyond its early, charming ways. But her techniques of plotting and structure take a nose dive here. After establishing a plausible mystery around a long-ago kidnapping of two children, she wanders too far from the Yorkshire moors - all the way to London's hectic rock-music world - to resolve it. The city characters and scenes are interesting enough for a book of their own; but their noisy energy shouts down the atmospheric tone of the original narrative, with its somber country landscape, broody characters and time-bound story.
Not a calm book, after all, to inflict such culture shock.
 
*
 No wonder the folks in Durango call it ''The City That God Forgot.'' Ross Thomas really rubs it in, in THE FOURTH DURANGO (Mysterious Press, $18.95), that Father Serra forgot to build a mission in this tiny California town (pop. 9,861), condemning it to a future without tourists. Sprinkling salt on that unkind cut, the highway engineers forgot to build a decent road through the mountains, and the railroad builders forgot to provide access to the ocean. All of which makes the fourth Durango - it's not in Spain; it's not in Mexico; it's not in Colorado; it's nowhere - the ideal hideout for a man with a price on his life.
For a fee, the shrewd mayor and her loyal chief of police offer sanctuary to a judge who has just done time on a cooked-up bribery charge. The judge and his son-in-law, a disbarred lawyer, move into ''the only money-losing Holiday Inn west of Beirut'' and devise a plan for smoking out the person with the vendetta against the judge. For an even bigger fee, the mayor and her top cop are game to conspire in the scheme - until an extremely ugly man comes to town and starts shooting up the citizenry.
We already know how witty Mr. Thomas can be about entrepreneurial greed and political chicanery, from the sophisticated thrillers he sets in such cities as Singapore, Hong Kong and Washington. But Durango is a revelation. Although the town operates on civic codes of ethics that would have Hammurabi tearing at his beard, its ex-hippie mayor and unorthodox laws keep the place running in its own rather wonderful time warp. Give us a road map and a passport - and keep those tourists out.
 
*
 David Williams's urbane banker-sleuth, Mark Treasure, saunters to the rescue of yet another embattled British institution in HOLY TREASURE! (St. Martin's, $15.95). When a Pastoral Committee declares an Anglican church in North London ''redundant,'' its wealthy patron and a handful of parishioners rally to keep the crumbling edifice open and solvent. But when the vicar's wife is murdered, Treasure's eyebrows elevate at the church's many would-be saviors, his own investment clients among them, who would take over its rich real estate holdings in the name of charity.
Clever sleuthing and genteel social satire provide the pleasure in this light, leisurely whodunit. The local church worthies are an amusing lot, and Mr. Williams gets in some nice digs at an American televangelist group called Investors for Jesus, whose worldly ministry a representative thus rationalizes: ''Some of us have to make up in practical zeal what we lack in spirituality.''
Treasure himself is not nearly as erudite or as all-fired charming as Michael Innes's Sir John Appleby, a gentlemanly detective to whom he bears an obvious resemblance. But he definitely cultivates the dry wit and coolly discerning air of his superior kind - even to the ''mock pomposity'' that, after a dozen outings in this series, has become one of his more endearing traits.
 
*
 Ben Wellman, the sensitive police-detective hero of Thomas H. Cook's STREETS OF FIRE (Putnam, $19.95), feels ''trapped on some bizarre and unforgiving front, a man between the lines'' when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. comes to Birmingham, Ala., to lead the city's black residents in their eventful 1963 civil rights marches. ''I guess you might say I'm trying to stay out of it,'' he says uneasily, when the chief of police calls out the fire hoses and unleashes the dogs. In an effort to sort out his own tangled loyalties and muddled beliefs, and as a way of avoiding the racial bonfires in the city, this decent cop throws himself into a case that nobody else wants - the rape-murder of a 12-year-old black girl, which turns out to have far-reaching racial and political implications.
Mr. Cook writes with powerful poignancy about his hero's struggles of personal conscience. His unsparing accounts of the city's racist climate also carry painful conviction. It is only when he reaches for epochal significance that the author overburdens his story with its historical context. Characters become sentimentalized; all events turn portentous; actions lose their ambiguity of motive; and a tone of overwrought lyricism drenches the narrative in melodrama.
''She was a little girl,'' Sergeant Wellman says of his sad case. ''I don't like what happened to her.'' That simple, admirable sense of human scale is precisely what becomes distorted when the author contrives to turn the child into Iphigenia at Aulis and sacrifices her to a history lesson in race relations.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: REVIEW

TITLE: OLD SILENT, THE (BOOK); FOURTH DURANGO, THE (BOOK); HOLY TREASURE! (BOOK); STREETS OF FIRE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: SCOTLAND (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WRITERS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); SHOOTINGS (74%); MURDER (74%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%); POP & ROCK (50%); 

PERSON: STASIO, MARILYN; GRIMES, MARTHA; THOMAS, ROSS; WILLIAMS, DAVID; COOK, THOMAS H



587 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1, Column 3; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2143 words

HEADLINE: A COVENANT WITHTHE SOIL

BYLINE: By MAXINE KUMIN; Maxine Kumin raises horses on a farm in New Hampshire. Her most recent books are ''Nurture,'' a collection of poems, and ''In Deep: Country Essays.''

 BODY:

FARM
A Year in the Life of an American Farmer.
By Richard Rhodes.
Illustrated by Bill Greer. 336 pp. New York:
Simon & Schuster. $19.95.
Richard Rhodes, whose 1987 ''Making of the Atomic Bomb'' garnered the major book awards, grew up in Missouri. From the age of 12 he lived in a boys' home on a farm near Independence, where he developed a close acquaintance with such labor-intensive practices as mucking out barns and chicken houses, docking lambs and picking tomatoes. In an early, poignant essay in his book ''The Inland Ground: An Evocation of the American Middle West,'' he says of his boyhood that he was called back from despair during this bleak time by ''the land and the animals and the work . . . those daily regularities that insist on the continuation and preservation of the world.'' 
In this earlier work, Mr. Rhodes also reports on a visit to the I-D Packing Company, the only plant that would allow him entry, tape recorder in hand. The screaming of pigs wedged onto the ramp that moves them inexorably to their deaths ''had to remind me,'' Mr. Rhodes writes, ''of things no one wants to be reminded of any more, all mobs, all death marches, all mass murders. . . . We are the most expensive of races, able in our affluence to hire others of our kind to do this terribly necessary work of killing another race of creatures so that we may feed our oxygen-rich brains.''
''Farm'' reminds us. Mr. Rhodes brings empathy and intelligence to his subject, and he projects for the reader that continuing identification with the day-to-day complexities, disappointments and gratifications encountered by his pseudonymous family, the Bauers.
Like those of most independent small farmers hemmed in by agribusinesses, the Bauers' holdings are modest. They farm 337 acres of their own in central Missouri and another 779 acres on shares with three landlords, a far cry from the 6,000- to 20,000-acre spreads that are not uncommon on the still-rich flatlands that were once prairie.
Despite a daily year-round schedule that would make an urban construction worker quail, the Bauers' net return for the year that Mr. Rhodes was in attendance was just about $19,000. Land values plummeted during the Reagan years, reducing the Bauers' net worth by half. Constantly changing Federal regulations regarding crop rotations, percentages of land set aside to lie fallow and fluctuating Government loan rates require scrupulous attention to paper work. Many older farmers, baffled by these bureaucratic procedures, have opted out of programs that might have helped them. ''One rule alone had 1,004 changes in one year,'' Mr. Rhodes tells us. By the end of the year, the Bauers finally decide to give up on Government subsidy programs and take their chances on the open market. According to Mr. Rhodes, thrift, independence, family unity, diversity of crops and animals and a strong dose of native intelligence indicate that this family may indeed prosper while others go bankrupt.
A major portion of ''Farm'' deals with the machinery of modern farming: the tractors, mowers, planters, cultivators, the all-purpose pickups and dump trucks and especially the combines that have taken over the role, for example, of the 40-mule hitch that pulled all 15 tons of the first combine through the wheat fields of California a mere 150 years ago.
The modern combine is almost terrifyingly adroit. It reduces the number of times corn or soybeans or wheat has to be handled to get it from the field into the silo down to an all-in-one operation. It eliminates the need for those immense farm families of the past, where every child from toddler size on up had a serious and exhaustingly repetitive job to perform during the harvesting season. It has reprieved the farm wife, who once not only prepared huge meals for a crew of hungry hands, but also hauled cold drinking water out to the fields during daylight hours.
Intensive farming methods have taken the plod out of plowing, women and children and hired hands out of the fields. At the same time, those methods all too often compact the soil; reduce organic matter; endanger wildlife by plowing, as the former Secretary of Agriculture Earl Butz commanded, ''from fence row to fence row''; leave chemical residues on food, and pollute the water supply.
Since World War II, there has been a tenfold increase in the amount of herbicides, insecticides, fungicides and other toxic chemicals used on the land, an alarming progression in view of the fact that, as the writer Verlyn Klinkenborg puts it, ''The oldest black-loam farms of the Midwest have just passed the century mark. Many already suffer from the chronic ills of contemporary tillage. . . . How will they look at 350 years? What will they grow?''
Surprisingly, these matters never come under discussion in ''Farm.'' Nitrate contamination of ground water, although a real and omnipresent threat, receives no mention. Rachel Carson warned us 25 years ago that nature does not operate in isolation, and that pollution of ground water is total pollution.
Anyone hoping for enlightenment here on plant varieties that are resistant to insects and diseases and that require minimal applications of fertilizers will be disappointed. (Tom Bauer's one experiment with hybrid wheat is a disaster, and he plans not to repeat it.) A regenerative farm rotates its crops; 50 percent of today's farmers do not practice rotation. Mr. Bauer rotates his corn and soybeans. He is a minimalist when it comes to synthetic fertilizers, lagooning his pig wastes and redelivering them to his fields. He also spreads whatever cow manure is generated by his small herd. But when it is time to plant corn, the granulated fertilizer truck precedes him down the rows. And earlier, he knifes in nitrogen in the form of anhydrous ammonia, a pressurized liquid. This dangerous but economical procedure is commonplace on the large flat fields that make its application feasible.
Mr. Rhodes prizes his farmer-hero's deep patience, mechanical skill and stamina. He respects this very solid marriage partnership and admires Sally Bauer, who, in addition to keeping the books, can run the combine, handle a grain truck, see to the household and still find time to work with her brother in his ceramics business.
Figuring large as villains are the grain companies, here called the Dirty Five for their alleged practice of adulterating first-quality grain by mixing with ''dirt to bring it down to grade.'' Many of the grain-elevator companies are also chemical fertilizer purveyors. They take powerful advantage of fluctuating storage needs, exacting a 10-month deposit fee to hold space in their elevators, ''charging a man for storage when his beans weren't even out of the field,'' Mr. Bauer grumbles. But he pays.
Squeezed by the chemical companies and by Government regulations that make it mandatory to deliver the highest possible yields per acre in order to show a profit in a good year and be eligible for support payments in a bad year, Mr. Bauer and his fellow farmers are in a very real sense trapped by the technology that now dominates tillage. Diversity enables Mr. Bauer to keep his head above water when crops fail. He runs some calves on land shares with neighbors, but the largest source of his income is hogs.
Mr. Rhodes devotes less than 40 pages to this operation, but this subject elicits the most graphic writing in the book. Unlike cattle, which are turned out to graze, Mr. Bauer's pigs are confined in pens. Because they are not ruminants and cannot efficiently digest cellulose, the financial gains are much greater if they are restrained and fed grain. Birthed in narrow steel crates in which the sow cannot turn around, unable to root in soil, the piglets must receive iron shots, be fed antibiotic-laced feed, have their eyeteeth nipped off and their tails docked, all standard procedures in the American methodology. (In Sweden it is illegal to raise pigs without giving them access to straw and litter.) Mr. Rhodes describes Mr. Bauer's efforts to restore a prolapsed rectum in one of his immature sows: the treatment is excruciating, medieval and rarely successful. Techniques that are more effective require a veterinarian, which is financially unfeasible. The cheapest way to produce pork is in a ''pig factory.'' When more humane, old-fashioned methods are used, the profit margin evaporates. As Mark Kramer puts it in ''Three Farms,'' ''The maximum bearable crowding of the fastest-growing hogs available makes a farmer his living.''
American consumers want cheap pork and don't care how they get it. Their meat is shrink-wrapped in plastic; please do not tell them how it got there. Mr. Rhodes unblinkingly describes the process from birth to the auctioning off for slaughter of pigs and cattle. He walks the reader through the vet's annual visit when the cattle are vaccinated and the males are castrated. A certain uneasiness seems to pervade the male-bonded conversation during this latter procedure; the banter is heavy with testicular jocularity. Mr. Rhodes is a faithful reporter.
It is a bit surprising to learn that Mr. Bauer is feeding his newborn calves a homemade brew of salt, baking soda, pectin and consomme to supplement their mother's colostrum, which he claims is not nourishing.
But it is not surprising that Mr. Bauer is sentimental about his land and his crops. Tears come to his eyes when he observes his son running the combine for the first time. He doubts ''if anyone who wasn't born on a farm could understand how he felt about the land.''
This presents a puzzling contrast with his attitude toward the family's young mongrel bitch. The Bauers do not feed their dogs. They are expected to scavenge or hunt mice and rabbits on their own. When the young female gets pregnant, Mr. Bauer makes the decision to ''thump'' the pups and does so as soon as they are born. Toward the close of the book, the bitch is pregnant again. She is killed by Mr. Bauer after being bested in a presumed encounter with coyotes.
The Bauers have just spent a thousand dollars to send one son to Australia on an educational exchange program, thousands more to build a heated garage attached to the house, but apparently the cost of spaying a family pet is beyond their grasp. All the more startling to find Mr. Rhodes's farmer-hero adopting two coyotes: he ''had dug out the pups the day they were born.''
Mr. Rhodes's chronicle is unvarnished, his vision acute. In ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb,'' he examines the aftermath of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the soul-searching exchanges among scientists and between them and Government officials. He is perhaps at the very top of his form in discussing the post-1945 period and the machinery of rearmament, quoting Robert Oppenheimer's ''Can we make them terribly more terrible?''
The reader will not find much soul-searching in ''Farm.'' Two hundred years ago, Thomas Jefferson wrote in a letter to James Madison that ''the earth belongs in usufruct to the living.'' Jefferson could never have foreseen the perils that ensnare the modern farmer, or our loss of allegiance to that noble concept.
 
THE ENVIABLE LIFE
Missouri has been on Richard Rhodes's mind a lot lately. ''Farm'' was inspired by the six years he spent at the Andrew Drumm Institute in Independence, a self-sufficient boys' home with a 360-acre farm. ''I felt some nostalgia for the farm. I wanted to go back,'' the 52-year-old author said by telephone from his home in Cambridge, Mass. ''I always daydreamed about being a farmer. I was curious about the farm. Things in the press and in film made the picture so dire.''
Mr. Rhodes said that his next book, ''A Hole in the World,'' will be about his childhood in Missouri. The title refers to his mother's death when he was only a year old. When he was 12, a juvenile court moved him and his brother to the boys' home after authorities determined that they were, he said, ''seriously underweight and abused.''
Mr. Rhodes said that researching ''Farm'' was a chance for him to fill his lungs after half a decade spent cloistered in archives writing ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb.''
''I lived with the [Bauer] family on a daily basis'' for much of 1986, he said. ''I took an apartment for $75 a month in a nearby town. I was an unpaid hired hand with a notebook in my pocket. They live a life they deeply enjoy. It's really priceless. This family weathered the worst agricultural crisis since the 1930's. They lost value in their land, but they did not go deeply into debt. It's clear to them that although, if worse came to worse, they might have to give up farming on their own, there is always work out there. They will never have to do what to them would be a fate worse than death - which would be to move to the city.''
 
KEITH SCHNEIDER

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 1); Richard Rhodes (Ginger Untrif) (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: REVIEW

TITLE: FARM: A YEAR IN THE LIFE OF AN AMERICAN FARMER (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); AGRICULTURE (75%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (57%); 

PERSON: KUMIN, MAXINE; RHODES, RICHARD RONALD REAGAN (50%); 



588 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 14, Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: UPDATE: September 24, 1989

 BODY:

INDEXES OF HOUSING COSTS	 	 	 	N.Y.-Northeast N.J. area*	 	 	 			% change from	% change from		Aug.	July	Aug. 88	 	 	 	 	Rents	150.0	-0.3	5.3	Homeowner's costs	155.6	0.5	6.4	Fuel and utilities	100.2	-0.3	5.6	 	 	 	 	*Five counties of New York City plus Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester,	Rockland, Putnam, Bergen, Essex, Morris, Union, Hudson,	Middlesex, Somerset and Passaic.	 	 	 	 	Indexes: 1982-84-100	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	MORTGAGE INTEREST RATES (Averages)		Last Week	Previous Week	Year Ago	 	 	 	 	New York	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.36	10.40	10.71	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.87	8.85	8.21	 	 	 	 	New Jersey	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.15	10.24	10.51	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.63	8.63	8.12	 	 	 	 	Connecticut	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.26	10.34	10.65	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	8.73	8.81	8.43	 	 	 	 	Co-ops (N.Y.)	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Conventional (30-yr)	10.73	10.78	11.19	Adjustable Rate (1st yr)	9.05	8.99	8.49	 	 	 	 	Indexes for Adjustable-Rate Mortgages*	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	1-yr. Treasury security	8.07	8.27	8.01	National Mortgage Contract Rate	9.81	10.10	9.00	
 
*Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 1 to 3 percentage points above these indexes.
 
(Source: HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: HSH ASSOCIATES (52%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INTEREST (MONEY); PRICES; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); STATISTICS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); 



589 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2115 words

HEADLINE: Doldrums Troubling Housing Developers

BYLINE: By MARK McCAIN

 BODY:
WITH birch trees and rhododendrons spread across their lush lawns, seven new town houses at the Racquet Club on Long Island Sound look like the pride of loving homeowners. But a wasteland of mud ponds and hardpan that surrounds this manicured oasis in Centerville, L.I., offers evidence of big plans gone awry.
Bulldozers gouged 20 acres out of an oak forest there, 75 miles east of Manhattan, to make way for more than 200 homes. But after spending more than $12 million on land, site work, roads, construction and advertising, the developers found no buyers. The seven model homes now sit locked and empty.
''We figured we'd capture the yuppie market from Wall Street,'' said Dick Dickler of Jericho, L.I., one of the principals. ''My bank bought the concept, my partners bought the concept, but it simply did not work. After the stock market crash of Oct. 19, the yuppie market died on us. We even put ads in the papers to see what would happen at prices $20,000 below our costs. That didn't generate any sales, either.'' 
Throughout the metropolitan New York area, while some developers continue to start new projects, many others have been thrown into difficult times. No longer are buyers searching out every new project, like the Racquet Club, which Mr. Dickler decided to build two years ago on a 111-acre tract.
''At that point, business was booming for us,'' he said. ''We had all kinds of jobs under way. Sales were very, very good and we had an insatiable appetite for more property.''
But today some developers are choking on past excesses. The most beleaguered ones, burdened by mounting debts, are trying to sell off land they no longer need and speculative houses they never should have built.
''Don't buy that new Cadillac just yet,'' warned Builder, a trade magazine for residential developers, in a recent forecast. ''There's an industry shakeout coming and many of you won't make it.''
Actually, the shakeout has already begun. Strong builders like Heritage Development Group of Southbury, Conn., are analyzing opportunities to buy aborted projects at distressed prices.
''Banks are inheriting certain projects,'' said Henry J. Paparazzo, president of Heritage, which expects to sell about 100 homes this year - down nearly 50 percent from 1988. ''Basically, some developers don't have the wherewithal to carry their jobs the extra distance. They can't make bank payments.''
Even without any houses languishing on the market, a developer can slip into financial distress. Land represents about one-quarter of the cost of new homes, and developers usually operate with other people's money, so too many building lots can rapidly translate into too much debt.
''In the mid-1980's, builders were looking out toward some very prosperous years, so they were happy to have large inventories of land,'' said Robert Ritter, vice president of Robert-Mark Real Estate, a brokerage in Hopewell Junction, N.Y., near Poughkeepsie. ''But now they're trying to liquidate inventory.''
Savvy developers are adjusting to this leaner era, with its reduced profit margins and reduced sales activity. They are sharpening market strategies - knowing that buyers have become more selective since the mid-1980's, when inferior design and inferior location did not rule out success.
''What we're going through is a perfectly healthy process of weeding out bad builders,'' said Michael Barile, president of Lynlil Builders of Mahopac, N.Y., which expects to sell about 50 houses this year. ''Three years ago, anyone with some cash saved up wanted to be a builder. I was selling house lots to owners of pizza parlors and to people who worked for I.B.M. And basically, most of the spec homes still stuck on the market were built by inexperienced people.''
Mr. Barile has cut back sharply on ''spec houses'' - which are built on speculation before lining up buyers - and has pared down his average price.
''IN my market, the resistance point of buyers used to be around $450,000,'' he said. ''Now it's more like $350,000.''
Shrinking pocketbooks have become a common phenomenon in nearly every market niche. Gerald Kreisberg has a 120-unit subdivision called Wedgewood in Newburgh, N.Y., on the Hudson River 25 miles north of the New Jersey border, where his first 75 houses sold rapidly in the $150,000 range.
''But now the tight market has even caught up with us in Orange County,'' Mr. Kreisberg said. ''People priced out of Rockland and Dutchess Counties used to come here, but now even we're too expensive. So we have to lower our sights to meet the market.'' Early last month, he began advertising a raised-ranch model for $130,000. That has generated some interest, but sales are still slow.
''While I closed about 50 sales last year, I may close 20 or so this year,'' he said. ''And if I achieve that volume, I'll probably be doing much better than most of my peers.''
Clearly, buyers have revolted against rising prices. For about five years, demand for housing was so strong that anyone with a piece of the action - developers, land owners, tradespeople - could expect their fortunes to improve with each passing month. But now buyers are refusing to play along, and that has thrown the new-home industry into turmoil.
''The market is terrible for a lot of builders, even though underlying demand for housing has remained strong,'' said Ara K. Hovnanian, president of K. Hovnanian Enterprises of Red Bank, N.J., a major builder of moderate-priced homes.
''The problem within this market,'' he said, ''is that both homeowners and developers have set their sights on excessively high prices.''
Hovnanian developments attract first-time home buyers, who are good prospects in today's sluggish market because they do not need to sell before they can buy. And with its reputation for good value, Hovnanian is maintaining a sales volume of about 2,500 homes a year in New Jersey.
One recent weekend, the company sold out 130 houses in a subdivision under construction in Piscataway. Next month the company will open the sales office for a 1,200-unit condominium and town-house project in Jersey City, with prices starting around $100,000.
''We haven't begun any advertising yet,'' Mr. Hovnanian said, ''but we're already receiving about 200 calls a week at our main office.''
FOR Hovnanian and other active builders, a side benefit of the soft market is that contractors and landowners are chasing less money.
''Now the trades are hungry to get work - just to break even,'' Mr. Hovnanian said. ''And in the last few months we've begun to see land deals that make sense.
''Throughout 1987 and 1988, we weren't able to acquire land because sellers were demanding top, top prices that we couldn't justify,'' he said. ''We were getting nervous as we depleted our land inventory at the rate of about 2,500 housing units a year. But now we're in the process of signing contracts for land that can accommodate about 2,000 more units.''
Occasionally, there are heartening signs for residential developers. The Federal Commerce Department reported recently that new home sales in the Northeast soared by 55.8 percent in July. The seasonally adjusted volume of 120,000 units for July was more than double June's volume.
''Interest rates dropped briefly in July and I think many people found a window of affordability,'' said Rae Rosen, an economist at the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York.
Unfortunately, many analysts consider the July activity to be an anomaly, rather than a sign that hard times are over. Home prices are stagnating or declining modestly throughout most of the New York metropolitan region, and home buyers are biding their time.
''Right now there are too many houses on the market, so lots of developers have stopped developing,'' said Rae Molinelli, a real estate broker in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. ''And subdivisions have been caught in the crunch, with third and fourth phases not selling nearly as fast as the first few phases.''
Some developers are still trying to sell off speculative units left over from optimistic days; other developers have trimmed their inventories low enough to be able to resume construction at a modest pace.
''We've slowed down considerably in Somers,'' said Mr. Paparazzo of Heritage, which is developing Heritage Hills, a 14-year-old project in the Westchester community that is now about halfway to its projected total of 3,100 condominium units.
''We really had a great sellers' market for four or five years in the Northeast,'' he said. ''But the combined costs of developing new housing rose so high that we outdistanced the capabilities of buyers - and they backed off.''
Like any manufacturer forced to cut back production as it sits on too much inventory, residential developers have introduced sales incentives. Among these are discounts, extra features, free trips and below-market financing.
The sweeteners help lure some home buyers into the market, but alone they cannot turn a troubled project into a winner.
''We are now discounting units, which is something we haven't done for a long time,'' said Ross Wishnick, a senior vice president of Union Valley Corporation, a major developer based in Howell, N.J., which operates in the $100,000 to $200,000 range. ''We went through a very painful thought process before arriving at the decision to discount, but we felt it was an appropriate response to the times.
''We're more flexible in our sales today, and I think everyone else is, too,'' said Mr. Wishnick, who expects Union Valley will sell about 20 percent fewer units this year than in 1988, when it sold about 800 homes.
Throughout the New York region, most statistical information points to a continuing decline in residential construction. On Long Island, for instance, building permits this year are running about 25 percent below last year's level. The Town of Lewisboro is typical of Westchester County: Its building permits peaked at 285 in 1986, dropped to 122 in 1987, 39 in 1988, and this year the pace is slightly slower yet.
''HOME buyers have really fallen off - and the ones out looking are trying to find the best bargains they can,'' said John Sims, president of Weichert New Homes and Land Company, a brokerage in Morris Plains, N.J., now marketing 26 residential projects within the region.
''A few years ago we were converting five out of every 100 people who came into new-home communities,'' said Mr. Sims, referring to people who decided to buy. ''Today it's more like one out of 100.''
Although the ingredients of successful residential projects in today's market vary widely, in almost every case, the development team has analyzed and dissected its target audience extensively.
''There are some builders who haven't done any research, who haven't merchandised wisely, and they're laying dead in the water,'' Mr. Sims said. ''Other builders are responding week by week to the market, and they're selling homes.''
For a few years it seemed that a key element of successful real estate development - location - was losing its stature as buyers snatched up new homes almost anywhere within an expanding ring around New York City.
But as the market has cooled, so has the appeal of less desirable locations.
''Almost every project is cutting prices and discounting units, but we didn't feel that was an appropriate strategy for us because our sales are strong,'' said James Harvie, the developer of Half Moon Bay, a condominium project on the Hudson River in the Westchester County village of Croton. Its prices range from $250,000 to $450,000.
''WHILE the difficulties of obtaining approvals are enormous for a project like ours, living right on the water, next to your own marina, is something that almost everyone would enjoy,'' Mr. Harvie said.
''The uniqueness of our site gives us a major advantage over other developments. We had 40 or 50 people through our sales office in a week near the end of August, which is normally a slow period. There are other developers who have not seen that many people in six months.''
At the Racquet Club on the Sound in Centerville, L.I., the sales office is locked, the blinds are pulled and the potted palms have turned brown from neglect. The developers figured that for less than $200,000 young couples would eagerly buy into a complex offering 12 tennis courts, a pool, a clubhouse and walking trails.
But the location - 50 miles from the eastern tip of Long Island, amid sod farms, greenhouses and cornfields - worked against the concept.
''We figure we'll try again when times are better,'' said Mr. Dickler. ''Who knows when that will be. But for now, there's no sense beating our heads against the wall.''

GRAPHIC: Empty town houses at site of Racquet Club on Long Island Sound, Centerville, L.I., where construction has stopped (The New York Times/Marty Heitner) (pg. 1); Wedgewood development, Newburgh, N.Y., had rapid initial sales, now slowing (The New York Times/Suzanne DeChillo) (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (52%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HERITAGE DEVELOPMENT GROUP INC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: RACKET CLUB (CENTERVILLE, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); CITIES (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (69%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (69%); 

PERSON: MCCAIN, MARK; DICKLER, DICK



590 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 10; Page 15, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: IN THE REGION: Connecticut and Westchester;
A $300 Million Downtown Bridgeport Plan

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
FOR more than 20 years, Bridgeport - known to its detractors as the ''gritty city'' - has been struggling to redevelop its business district, but it has never taken the big step.
Now, for the first time, a comprehensive rather than piecemeal plan for restoring its entire downtown core of 171 buildings in 19 blocks - a $300 million, six-year project - is ready to run the gantlet of zoning and financing approvals that could start the reconstruction within 60 days.
The proposal, by Joel Schiavone of New Haven, is based on his successful rehabilitation of his home city's downtown, relying on the reuse of 19th- and early 20th-century buildings instead of demolition and new construction. He regards Bridgeport's large stock of old buildings in three historic districts as a blessing bestowed unwittingly ''by unsuccessful mayors in the 50's who never got Federal funds for urban renewal.'' 
A man of many interests, Mr. Schiavone graduated from Yale University in 1958 and Harvard Business School in 1961 and then set about diversifying his grandfather's New Haven scrap-metal business.
His holdings include the Schiavone Realty & Development Corporation, the New Haven Night Hawks hockey team, Connecticut Limousine Service and a succession of more than a dozen other companies bought and sold. An accomplished banjoist with the Galvanized Jazz Band, he is currently seeking the Republican Party's nomination for Governor.
His plan is favored by the government, banking and corporate communities in Bridgeport, the state's most populous city. It is expected that his application for changes in zoning - now limiting setbacks, heights and lot sizes and requiring 1,500 feet between establishments selling liquor, a parking space for every residential unit and a ban on sidewalk cafes - will be approved this month.
''Without the changes, the plan is not economically feasible,'' said James G. Kimball, a partner in the Kimball Group, a Bridgeport real estate company and partner in the Schiavone project. ''We need an entertainment core of restaurants and nightclubs. Parking for up to 2,000 rental apartments must be as it is in other cities, where people park in garages, parking lots or on the street.''
Residential rents would start around $450 for a studio and commercial space would be about $15 a square foot. An outdoor cafe is planned by closing Wall Street to traffic and enveloping it in glass.
''We are not creating a city for blue-eyed WASP's with median incomes of $45,000 a year, nor are we putting a sign out saying 'city for rent,' '' said Mr. Kimball. ''We want diners, shoeshine parlors and laundromats, dry cleaners and ice cream parlors, Laura Ashley and low-priced clothing, quality restaurants, landscaped parking lots, parks and theaters.''
''The best element of Joel's plan is getting 35 buildings done at one time in the first year,'' said Philip Kuchma, president of P. J. Kuchma Construction Company, owner of several properties in the area. ''We need to have that immediate an impact.''
Mr. Kuchma has restored some of his own buildings and will build a 456-car parking garage on Golden Hill Street near the Golden Hill Apartments that Mr. Schiavone plans to renovate and rent for $1,200 a month.
Financing of $54 million for the first phase, bounded by State, Broad, Golden Hill and Main Streets, would restore some 600,000 square feet of buildings that include the vacant Read's Department Store.
Future phases would expand the project to Harrison Street on the west, to the junction of Housatonic and East Washington Avenues to the north, and east to Water Street, where a new marina would be built. A total of 1.8 million square feet are involved, much of it currently rented. Some 300,000 square feet would be office space.
''WE are trying to come up with a venture in which local and nonlocal banks will participate at different levels as general partners,'' said Peter M. Brestovan, first vice president of People's Bank of Bridgeport, one of 10 institutions in a consortium formed to finance the project. He added that the eight months of negotiations were ''longer than any of us wanted.''
Other members of the consortium are Mechanics & Farmers, Bankmart, Lafayette and Citytrust of Bridgeport; Connecticut National Bank and Connecticut Bank & Trust of Hartford; Union Trust of Stamford and U.S. Trust of Boston and the Bank of Boston.
Since the 60's, such widely divergent projects as the unsuccessful conversion of an old ferryboat into a floating restaurant and the construction of a Hilton Hotel six years ago were perceived as generators of further development that never materialized. Spotty demolition produced parking lots and vacant lots. The city averted bankruptcy in 1988 when a state-mandated financial review board forced a balanced budget to be passed last May with the aid of $58 million in bonds to cover debts and working capital.
With one of the state's highest tax rates - $57.2 per $1,000 of assessed value - the city has granted tax credits and abatements for a $30 million, 222,000-square-foot office tower under construction by Robert Scinto of Fairfield on Lafayette Boulevard; the conversion of a vacant Gimbels store into a handsome Mechanics & Farmers Bank on Broad Street and of a coat factory into Lafayette Square offices and pub by the Lindmark Group of Suffern, N.Y., and the construction of the spectacular $100 million, 500,000-square foot People's Bank building designed by Richard Meier next door to the restored 1893 P. T. Barnum Museum.
MR. SCHIAVONE cannot acquire the properties he needs until the financial package is completed and the city's Common Council authorizes property purchases by eminent domain when necessary through the local Economic Development Corporation, which would resell them to Mr. Schiavone. Current owners may also sell to Mr. Schiavone directly, invest their buildings in the project and become limited partners.
According to Scott Brown, president of the Schavione Corporation, ''certain moneys will be reserved for assisting individual residents to relocate.'' But someone like Vino Sakakimi, owner of the Subway Sandwich Shop franchise at John and Main Streets since June, wonders what will happen to his thriving new business. He invested $125,000 in renovations and has a five-year lease at $3,000 a month.
''You have to take a chance in life,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Rendering of alley beside former Read's department store after restoration; Department store, now vacant, is to be renovated (The New York Times/Stephen Castagneto)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT LIMOUSINE SERVICE INC (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); ZONING (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (86%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROVALS (76%); ICE CREAM (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); WINTER SPORTS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); GOVERNORS (70%); DRINKING PLACES (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (61%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (60%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (51%); JAZZ & BLUES (50%); 



591 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 20, Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND OPINION;
Trim the Fat From High Cost of Education

BYLINE: By Irving Gerber; Irving Gerber of Oceanside, a retired New York City principal, is founder of No More, a group opposed to school tax increases.

 BODY:
THE 1989 school board budgets are history. The pros and cons have been hashed and rehashed. The anti-tax groups have been heaped with calumny. They have been called demagogues for daring to suggest that schools are not akin to motherhood.
They have been blamed for forcing children to walk miles to school, for lowering property values in districts on ''austerity,'' for depriving youngsters of their God-given right to high school sports. 
Despite all the rhetoric, nobody has been able to explain adequately why schools today, with half the number of students of 10 years ago, need twice the amount of money and considerably more administrators.
The answer does not require a long investigation. Fat, frills and waste pervade Long Island school districts. School boards have been running amok, building empires; more administrators, more supervisors.
Where before, a few rooms were sufficient, now entire buildings are needed to service a considerably reduced school population. Where before, a superintendent and one assistant with some ancillary help from key personnel were sufficient, now an army of coordinators, supervisors and directors fill district headquarters to overflowing.
The offending districts are ubiquitous Island-wide. Valley Stream sent its entire school board to Orlando, Fla., for a school board convention. So convenient, finding a convention next to Disneyworld. And, with thousands of teacher candidates available in the East, one wonders why this same district found it necessary to send recruiters to California, all expenses paid.
Oceanside used to have 10,000 children and one assistant superintendent. Now it has 5,000 children and three assistant superintendents.
Hicksville has three superintendents and four directors for 4,600 children. Bayport, with only 2,100 children, has the same number, three superintendents and four directors.
Merrick closed schools to save money, but kept the principals on the payroll. School districts are now employment agencies as well.
West Islip had 10,000 children and 10 schools. Now, with 5,000 children, they still seem to need the same 10 schools. Administrators in West Islip have been granted a 46 percent increase in their salaries over the last four years. Why not? When it's somebody else's money, the sky's the limit.
Bayport lost 1,400 pupils, going down to 2,000 in 10 years, but doubled its budget.
Baldwin said it had the tightest budget possible, but somehow managed to include two newly created administrative positions plus funds for carpeting, new lawn decorations and parking lots. This, after taxpayers voted down the budget.
Syosset tried to pass a bond issue to include new rooms for its elementary schools even though the schools are only 70 percent utilized and the school population is declining.
South Haven in Suffolk County was reported to have given its teachers a 12 percent raise per year for three years. The school board simply gave away the store.
The increased costs brought on by this school board profligacy are phenomenal. Island Park, for example, spent $7,300 per pupil in 1986. In 1988, it topped Long Island's districts with an obscene cost of $14,119 per pupil, practically a 100 percent increase.
And what did the people of this small village get for their money? Island Park, based on the New York State Education Department report for 1988, ranked among the lowest in Nassau County in social studies and writing skills, and is among the lower 50 percent in reading.
But, take heart Island Park, Manhasset and Oyster Bay are even lower in writing skills, while their teachers are among the highest paid in the entire county. On the other hand, Rockville Centre and New Hyde Park, where teachers are among the lowest paid, produced some of the finest results in reading, writing and arithmetic in 1988.
Obviously, we are paying for a pig in a poke. We think we are getting better schools for our money, but we are not. We think we've elected responsible trustees but we have not.
School boards are telling us we must spend more to give our children the finest education. The results indicate we are not spending for a finer education, we are spending to satisfy the power lust and prestige needs of school superintendents and school boards.
The evidence of overspending cannot be denied. But what are the solutions? Where does the answer lie?
First and foremost, we must get rid of the fat. We all want excellence in education, but to equate that with burgeoning offices and paper-pushing administrators is absurd.
Why do school districts need public-relations people who turn out self-serving newsletters informing the public of the excellent job being done? Why are there so many more nonteaching teachers today compared with a decade ago? Oceanside has a teacher now to organize training programs for teachers. With fringe benefits, the cost of this position comes to $75,000 per year.
Class size has an enormous effect on school budgets and taxes. Yet many districts continue to go to the taxpayer before they will consider the huge savings to be realized by a slight increase in the number of children per teacher.
The cry that larger class size will result in poorer education can easily be refuted. The January 1989 New York State Education Department Report shows districts with a relatively high pupil-per-teacher ratio, such as East Meadow, Herricks, Massapequa and Wantagh, doing as well as or better in reading and math as Great Neck, Island Park and Manhasset, which have much lower pupil-per-teacher ratios.
The item with the most profound effect on taxes is, of course, teacher salaries. At one time in our history, teaching was equated with poverty. Teachers rightly deserve the raises they have been granted over the past 10 years, to bring them up to a professional level. Now, however, with teacher salaries in the $40,000 to $50,000 range, our pedagogues can hardly cry poverty.
Yes, they should continue to advance with an annual 4 or 5 percent raise based on the cost of living, but why, when the taxpayers are hurting so badly, do school boards grant 8 and 10 percent raises per year?
The decrease in student population has resulted in districts being half the size they were. Why not combine services? Why not purchase and contract collectively and hire education specialists to coordinate and supervise in more than one district?
Is it pride or apathy that prevents an examination into such a possibility? In any case, we must bury the canard trumpeted loudly by school boards that 95 percent of expenses are mandated. True enough, health benefits, pensions, debt payment and so on are mandated, but there are many areas for economy, if the desire is there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (63%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SKY'S THE LIMIT (63%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION SCHOOL BOARDS (92%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL BONDS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); BONDS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (56%); 

PERSON: GERBER, IRVING



592 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 21, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Additional Alternatives To the Shoreham Plant

 BODY:
Regarding the article ''Despite Shoreham's Closing, Energy Alternatives Exist'' (Aug. 13) by Thomas A. Twomey Jr.:
Of course, energy alternatives exist; Shoreham opponents have said that for years. But instead of five, there are at least six.
The article omits the best alternative of all: the New York State hydropower that we all paid for (it is equal to 2.5 Shorehams and was built by a Long Islander, Robert Moses) and the huge amount of hydropower for sale next door in Quebec.
Even with a long transmission line, the hydropower would be cheaper, safer and more reliable than a nuclear Shoreham ever could be. Look at the figures for the new (not very high-tech) Marcy South transmission line from Canada nearly to Long Island:
 
* 2,000 megawatts vs. 810 for Shoreham.
* Cost of $800 million vs. $15 billion (maybe $20 billion) for Shoreham.
* On line virtually 100 percent of the time vs. 60 percent for the average United States nuclear plant (and you can bet Shoreham would be worse.)
* As for safety, the transmission line is insurable. Shoreham is not at any price. As a matter of fact, one of the finest Congresses money can buy passed legislation limiting liability in the event of a ''nuclear incident.'' (How's that for blaming the victims?) Instead of being 10 years late and 20 times over cost like Shoreham (that's 20 times, not 20 percent), Marcy South was built nearly on time and close to the original figures. Estimates were exceeded because of some rerouting for esthetic purposes.
In California, the people of Los Angeles overcame intense opposition from powerful utilities to build a high-tech line that saves them more than $1 million a day.
Yet, we on Long Island, the most hydro-rich area in the country and with shorter transmission distances, get the highest rates among the 800 United States electric companies. The rates will double again within 10 years under Governor Cuomo's deal.
The Long Island Lighting Company does not make enough money from ''imported power,'' and so it has opposed and lobbied against it for years, but we paid for our share and we have been denied for the last 20 years.
Wouldn't you rather buy almost ready-made power from a triple A-rated company like Hydro-Quebec (the largest electric utility in North America) instead of the clowns at Lilco?
Since Shoreham exists, it will probably go to natural gas, as people have been suggesting for years, especially since the Canadians have lots of it that they are willing to sell and our (United States) reserves are rated at better than 125 years.
It is relatively benign and very reliable. But notice how the nuclear industry never mentions gas? Gas is certainly a good choice for a local plant, even though in this hydro-rich area we should have few local plants.
Natural gas raises another issue. Unlike its electric service, Lilco's gas service is relatively good. But in a country devoted to free enterprise and economic competition, doesn't the combination of two competing energy sources in one monopoly violate the Sherman Antitrust Act?
For technical reasons, local electric and local gas companies must be monopolies, but there is no reason to combine the two, especially since they are competing energy sources.
If a well-respected company like A.T.&T., with a national treasure like Bell Labs, can be broken up, why couldn't a nearly bankrupt and despised company like Lilco, with a national disgrace like Shoreham, be touched? Or didn't our Governor even want to try?
The article mentions the Long Island Power Authority as doing great things for the Isand, but wasn't it supposed to purchase Lilco? Or was it just created as a sop to an outraged public before the election?
Now what will it be: A ''watchdog'' (the Governor's words) to do the job that the state's Public Service Commission was supposed to be doing all along, or just another useless state agency grinding out high payroll checks?
 
JOHN HURLEY
 Remsenburg Letters for publication should include the writer's name, address and telephone number for verification. Send letters to The Editor, Long Island Weekly, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

TITLE: SHOREHAM NUCLEAR POWER PLANT

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); HYDRO-QUEBEC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO)

SUBJECT: HYDROELECTRIC POWER (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); NATURAL GAS (73%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (69%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); LEGISLATION (51%); 

PERSON: HURLEY, JOHN; TWOMEY, THOMAS A JR ROBERT MOSES (57%); 



593 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1, Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: Drug Abuse To Be Focus Of Hearing

BYLINE: By States News Service

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
NEW JERSEY, whose turnpike the authorities say has become a major channel for illegal drugs flowing into New York and whose cities are home to some 200,000 cocaine and heroin users, will convene a Congressional field hearing tomorrow in which local experts will testify on the narcotics problem in the northern part of the state.
The hearing, which will be held at St. Peter's College in Jersey City, is the first of three or four that are scheduled around the country to inform Congressional debate on the $7.9 billion anti-drug plan that President Bush announced on Sept. 5.
''When you go out in the neighborhoods, you find there are many people who are willing to step forth and tell it like it is and give you their opinions and advice,'' said Representative Frank J. Guarini, Democrat of Jersey City, who is a member of House Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control.
Beginning at 9 A.M., committee members will hear testimony from 14 witnesses, including law-enforcement officials, health and drug-treatment specialists and community organizers. ''We want that input from the communities so we can carry it to the debate on the floor of Congress and use it to reshape and improve the President's plan,'' Mr. Guarini said. 
Among other provisions, the plan calls for increased penalties for drug use and more money for treatment, education, law enforcement and prisons. The witnesses in tomorrow's hearing will focus on drug education and prevention, rehabilitation and the spread of drug-related AIDS cases as well as narcotics-dealing in the state.
''Many aspects of New Jersey's economy, geography and location combine to make the state extremely conducive to the successful importation, manufacture, transportation and distribution of narcotics,'' wrote Samuel A. Alito Jr., United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey, in a recent Justice Department report.
''New Jersey is the most convenient land route for any cargo entering the New York area from almost everywhere in the country, especially Florida,'' Mr. Alito wrote.
So common are drug shipments along New Jersey's highways that the stretch of road entering Gloucester County over the Delaware Memorial Bridge is dubbed ''cocaine alley'' by law-enforcement officials.
Cocaine - the ''drug of choice'' in New Jersey, Mr. Alito said in his report - also comes in from Florida and Colombia through the busy ports of Elizabeth and Newark and the state's 79 airports. ''New Jersey then serves as the focus of distribution of the drug throughout the region, including Pennsylvania, Delaware, Rhode Island, Connecticut and, of course, within New Jersey itself,'' he wrote.
But cocaine consumption in New Jersey, most of it in the northeastern part of the state, is rivaled by heroin use in cities like Atlantic City, Trenton, Camden, Newark and Paterson. And southern New Jersey sees more widespread use of methamphetamine - speed - than other parts of the state.
''There is some crack use, but nowhere near the extent of the problem they have in New York or other places,'' said Michael J. Tobin, who is the special agent in charge of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration's Newark field division and who is scheduled to testify at the hearing. ''The place we're not seeing it as much as we thought we'd see it is in the Newark area.''
But crack, the potent smokable cocaine derivative that has plagued cities throughout the country, has nevertheless made inroads in New Jersey. State health officials estimate there are 57,000 crack users and 93,000 cocaine abusers in New Jersey. They estimate there are 50,000 intravenous drug users in the state, most of them heroin addicts.
Mr. Tobin said it was ''absolutely not'' possible for law-enforcement officials to intercept most of the drugs coming into New Jersey. ''Go down and look at the turnpike,'' he said. ''Go down and look at the seaport. Newark and Port Elizabeth represent one-third of the containers coming into the country. If you don't have information, it's like a raffle.''
The Rev. Willard W. Z. Ashley, a leader of the Interfaith Community Organization, a group of 40 Hudson County religious institutions that work together on social issues, said that while law-enforcement agencies needed more money, they also needed to be held more accountable for ridding the streets of dealers.
''We need to mount a systematic enforcement of the law,'' said Mr. Ashley, who will also testify at the hearing. ''This so-called drug war is not even a skirmish at this point. We have a law enforcement that's outmanned and outgunned, so it's not a surprise that it's failing. Even greater than that, we're talking accountability. You can pump money into stuff, but if no one's accountable, you're just going to be pumping money into stuff.''
 
Cocaine Found in Chocolate
Occasionally the police or Federal agents do confiscate huge shipments at the ports or on the highways. In July 1988, for example, the authorities found 6,000 pounds of cocaine in blocks of chocolate in Port Newark, the largest single seizure outside of Florida, Mr. Tobin said.
Trafficking is only one focus of tomorrow's hearing, however. Drug-treatment experts will present statistics showing that New Jersey has only a fraction of the resources it needs to treat abusers who want to quit.
''Our current drug-treatment system is bursting at the seams, despite some recent increases in both Federal and state money,'' said Christine M. Grant, a deputy commissioner of health in New Jersey.
Ms. Grant said state and Federal spending on treatment and prevention now totaled $22 million annually, enough to rehabilitate 16,000 to 18,000 people a year. She estimated that there were as many as 100,000 heroin and cocaine users in the state who needed treatment, and that 50 to 60 percent of those would be willing to enter programs if there were space available.
 
Concerns on Pregnant Women
''We certainly recognize an unprecedented increase in the number of people using particularly crack and cocaine,'' said Ms. Grant, whose assistant commissioner, Richard J. Russo, is scheduled to testify at the Congressional hearing. ''We are particularly concerned with the fact that an unprecedented number of pregnant women are delivering without any prenatal care or are found to be active drug users.''
At one prenatal clinic in Jersey City, for example, some 20 percent of patients have traces of illegal narcotics in their urine, she said.
State health officials hope the President's plan will allocate $6 million in Federal money for treatment and prevention programs in New Jersey. They also hope Federal lawmakers will use their influence to persuade local residents to permit drug-treatment clinics to open in their communities.
''We just can't treat new people in the now-aging facilities that are available - aging and crowded,'' Ms. Grant said.
 
Link to AIDS Cited
Health officials at the hearing also plan to address the link between intravenous drug use and AIDS. Some 60 percent of the state's 7,177 AIDS cases reported as of Aug. 31 were linked to intravenous drug use, health officials say. Perhaps 70,000 state residents are infected with the AIDS virus and are expected to eventually show symptoms of the disease.
''You have to resolve intravenous drug abuse before you can stop the spread of the epidemic,'' Ms. Grant said.
''You not only learn from what's going on in the community,'' Mr. Guarini said of the hearing. ''But you can also spotlight problem areas, and Hudson County is a problem area.''
Expected to join Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, the committee chairman, and other committee members at the hearing are Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, and Representative Donald M. Payne, Democrat of Newark.
Witnesses scheduled to testify include the New Jersey Attorney General, Peter N. Perretti Jr., Archbishop Theodore E. McCarrick of Newark and Joseph P. Miele, chairman of the Governor's Council on Alcoholism and Drug Abuse.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: ST PETER'S COLLEGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: DRUG ADDICTION AND ABUSE; DRUG TRAFFIC SUBSTANCE ABUSE (96%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); WITNESSES (89%); HEROIN (89%); COCAINE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (78%); EXPERT WITNESSES (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (74%); SAMUEL ALITO (74%); BARNEY FRANK (57%); 



594 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 15, Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: WESTCHESTER GUIDE

 BODY:

 
VISIT BY 'GISELLE'
The Connecticut Ballet Theater of Stamford will pay a visit to the county this week when it presents ''Giselle'' at the Performing Arts Center of the State University of New York at Purchase. The full-length production staged by Brett Raphael, artistic director of the company, will feature Cynthia Gregory and Fernando Bujones in the leading roles. Miss Gregory will appear as guest artist with the company throughout the season. She and Mr. Bujones have been principal dancers with the American Ballet Theater for two decades.
Performances are at 8 P.M. Friday and Saturday, and 2 P.M. next Sunday. Tickets, at $15, $25 and $40, may be ordered with major credit cards by calling the State University box office at 253-5900. 
 
TALKS ON CHINA
Judith Whitbeck's group of Marymount College students and friends had to cut short its travels through China last May. When political unrest turned violent in Beijing, the tour returned home, but not before witnessing a demonstration in Xi'an, a city of three million people and the capital of Shaanxi Province.
Dr. Whitbeck, assistant professor of history at Marymount, speaks Mandarin Chinese fluently and will give two lectures based on her recent experience and its context in the Chinese movement toward democracy in the last decade.
Her first talk begins at 7:30 P.M. Thursday, focusing on Xi'an's 2,000-year history. The second program, dealing with political protest, will be held at 1:30 P.M. on Oct. 7. Both lectures will be accompanied by Dr. Whitbeck's slides of the trip, and are to take place at the Nyack Public Library. There is no charge for admission but reservations may be made by calling 358-3370.
 
CARTOON HALL
A new, permanent Hall of Fame Gallery opens today at the the Museum of Cartoon Art in Rye Brook. Twenty-four members have been elected to the elite group of artists every few years since the practice began 14 years ago. A jury of cartoonists, scholars and editors in the field, independent of the museum, makes the selection, and as testimony to their impartiality, Mort Walker, creator of ''Beetle Bailey,'' was just elected this year, 15 years after he founded the museum and became an active participant in its operations.
Also elected this year were the recently deceased Dik Browne for his ''Hagar the Horrible'' and Will Eisner, who draws ''The Spirit.''
The new gallery contains original drawings from the first published strips of all the Hall of Fame cartoonists, including ''Blondie'' by Chic Young, 1930; ''Terry and the Pirates'' by Milton Caniff, 1936; ''The Yellow Kid'' by Richard Outcault, 1897; ''Bringing Up Father'' by George McManus, and early originals ranging from Charles Dana Gibson's ''Gibson Girl'' to Charles Schulz's ''Peanuts,'' plus ''Flash Gordon,'' ''Little Orphan Annie,'' ''Krazy Kat,'' and political cartoons by Thomas Nast among others.
Viewing hours are from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Tuesdays through Fridays and 1 to 5 P.M. Sundays. The museum is on Comly Avenue and admission is $3 for adults, $2 for students and the elderly, and $1 for children. For more information, call 939-0234.
 
COFFEE CONCERTS
The Philharmonia Virtuosi introduces a new series of four Sunday ''Coffee Concerts'' today at the Westchester Community College in Valhalla. Recalling the leisurely conviviality of old Vienna, a coffee hour at 12:30 P.M. will precede the 2 o'clock concert, warming up the audience with gourmet coffees and an elaborate selection of pastries.
Today's concert is a ''Back to Bach'' affair featuring Sandra Ruggles, soprano; Thomas Young, tenor; and Paul Peabody, violinist, performing arias, cantatas and concertos, with the ensemble conducted by Richard Kapp. All seats are $14, and there is a $5 charge for the coffee hour. Subscriptions for the series, continuing on Nov. 12, April 8 and May 13 cost $42. Call 693-5595 for reservations and more information.
 
SLOW MOTION
Tai chi, that mysterious, slow and flowing version of physical excercises that the Chinese perform at the start of the day, may be learned at Wainwright House in Rye. Yosef Pollack, an expert who has studied with two Chinese masters over 13 years, will teach two classes of six sessions each from 7:30 to 9 P.M. Tuesdays or from 12:30 to 2 P.M. Wednesdays, both beginning this week. The fee is $90.
The profound slowness, absolute continuity of movement and heightened concentration required in the classical Yang style of t'ai chi ch'uan is purported to promote relaxation, general health and a sense of exhilaration. Call 967-6080 for additional information or to enroll. The Wainwright House is at 260 Stuyvesant Avenue.
 
COUNTY ECONOMY
A formidable array of Westchester bankers and businessmen and -women will participate in the yearly fall economic symposium sponsored by the Westchester County Association and the Westchester County Bankers Association from 8 A.M. to noon Tuesday at the Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza in White Plains.
''Westchester Economy at the Crossroads'' is the general subject, divided into four topics to be discussed by individual speakers. Stephen Berger, executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, will talk about ''Paying for Mobility,'' and Kenneth H. Militzer, chief economist at American Telephone and Telegraph, will tackle ''The National Outlook: Hard Landing or Soft?''
''The Westchester Economy: Recession and Beyond'' will be forecast by Thomas J. Spitznas, president of T. J. Spitznas and Associates, a county-based economic consulting firm; the fourth speaker is Rosemary Scanlon, chief economist of the Port Authority, whose subject is ''Westchester and the Region: What's Happening? What's Ahead?''
A $40 fee includes breakfast. For reservations and additional details, call 948-6444.
 
DAYS OF VISION
The College of New Rochelle's three-day event called ''Visions of the Future: Imagining the 21st Century'' is planned for Saturday through Oct. 2, exploring prospects for the arts, space, architecture, sociological concerns and the world of work.
A free discussion about ''One Marriage: Two Careers'' opens the program at 2:30 P.M. Saturday, with Jerry Carr, commander of Skylab 4, and his wife, Patricia Musick, an artist whose work will be on exhibition under the title ''Exploring the Caverns of the Mind.''
Ms. Musick will give a gallery talk at 1 P.M. next Sunday, while her husband is to conduct a program with films and photographs called ''Ventures Into Space'' at 7 P.M., for which there will be a charge of $5, or $2.50 for children and the elderly. A free Saks Fifth Avenue fashion show will be held at 3 P.M. Sunday, followed by a presentation on careers by the H. W. Taylor Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies of the College of New Rochelle at 4 P.M.
''Alternate Futures'' will be discussed at 1:30 P.M. Oct. 2 by a panel including Anthony Pucillo, an architect; Jean Bonney, a computer scientist; Phillip Johnson, a Westchester 2000 analyst, and Dr. Kathleen Cravero, a United Nations health advocate. Admission is $5; the elderly $2.50. A group of Presidential Arts Scholars of the National Foundation for the Advancement of the Arts will perform free of charge at 4 P.M. Monday. Inexpensive meals will be available in the dining hall. For more information, call 654-5840. $90ELEANOR CHARLES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); SHAANXI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (71%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (90%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (90%); BALLET (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); DANCE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); DANCERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); HISTORY (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); POLITICS (67%); 

PERSON: CYNTHIA KATHLEEN GREGORY (72%); FERNANDO BUJONES (72%); 



595 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

Sept. 24, 1989, Sunday, National Edition

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS: BOSTON;
Around Boston, Condo Sellers Try Creative Marketing

BYLINE: By GAIL BRACCIDIFERRO

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
With sales listless in the suburban condominium market, developers are offering a variety of incentives to buy - including below-market mortgage rates and lease-to-buy options. In at least one case, the developers will even purchase buyers' homes.
All this follows several years of soaring prices and easy availability of financing to build new projects, many of which are in multifamily buildings in suburbs where the most familiar housing remains the single-family detached home.
Since the mid-80's, the condominium market has sagged even more than that of single-family homes here. This has led some banks and developers to offer financing packages to bring buyers into the market. It also has put private individuals who bought condominiums, lived in them for a few years and now want to sell, in direct competition with developers. 
Jerry Levin, president of First New Hampshire Condominium Associates of Nashua, N.H., which manages more than 2,500 condominium units in the Boston suburbs as well as southern New Hampshire, said individual sellers were also offering incentives to buy, such as rebates on closing costs.
Seth Emmer, a Boston lawyer who represents more than 150 condominium associations in the Boston area, said people who must move from condominiums, because of job relocation for example, also are choosing to rent rather than suffer a loss by selling.
People should buy for the traditional reasons, he said. Traditionally, people who plan to move soon rent, rather than buy. But the price appreciations of the recent past led many to expect substantial gains from a resale, which encouraged purchases.
The median price of a single-family home in the Boston area rose from $80,800 in 1982 to $178,500 in the first quarter of this year, according to the Boston Realtors' Board. In the second quarter of 1989, the median condominium price was $187,000 in Middlesex County, a suburban area just west of Boston.
The rate of home price increases has slowed considerably - from a high of 34 percent from 1985 to 1986 to slightly less than 1 percent from 1988 to the present. The area's median home price nevertheless remains nearly double the national median of $91,700.
Some banks continue to hold extensive amounts of construction debt. The First American Bank for Savings of Boston, which went public in 1986, is one savings institution using financial incentive programs to try to get out of debt.
Cathleen Maloney, First American's director of corporate communications, said the bank has $132 million in outstanding construction loans. No interest is being earned on 30 percent of its assets - $195 million worth, she said, part of which is in construction loans. In some cases, loans are being rolled over. In May and June, the bank introduced two financial incentive programs designed to retire some debt and begin selling condominiums. Several developers with First American loans who had more than 400 condominiums and several new single-family homes to sell were persuaded to take part.
First American's programs are aimed at two categories of buyers where the market seems to be weakest.
* For first-time home buyers who have been unable to save enough for a down payment in the Boston area's high-priced market, there is the Equitrak, Ms. Maloney said, which offers below-market mortgage rates of 8 percent and lease-to-buy options, under which all rent goes toward the down payment. The developer makes up the difference for the bank between the variable low mortgage interest rate and market rate until the former equals the latter.
* For buyers who are trading up, the Qualifier program offers below-market, 7.95 percent fixed-rate mortgages on higher-priced condominiums.
About $7 million worth of housing has been sold through the two programs.
''With the Qualifier,'' Ms. Maloney said, ''we do book a loss. But what we are getting is payment on loans. That is something.''
Merrill H. Diamond and his partner, Gordon I. Hurwitz, of the Parencorp development company of Brookline, are using the bank's incentives at the St. George on Revere Beach, a 240-unit, 13-story building for which ground was broken in July 1986. When the market softened, they began renting units and offering short-term price reductions on some condominiums.
''In a good market, people buy condominiums,'' Mr. Diamond said. ''In a bad market, people are sold condominiums.'' The partners have sold 124 units priced at $100,000 to $350,000, he said, and rentals created not only a cash flow, but also a pool of potential buyers.
Another tack, Mr. Diamond said, was taken at James Landing, a 50-unit Parencorp condominium town-house complex in the small South Shore town of Scituate where prices range from about $300,000 to more than $500,000. The complex is aimed at retired people seeking a more relaxed life style.
''They had to sell to buy there, so we came up with a home-swap program,'' Mr. Diamond said. For example, the developer would take a house appraised at $250,000 plus $75,000 in cash in exchange for a $350,000 condominium, he said. Parencorp sold five James Landing units through the program and has sold three of the homes they took in exchange.
Franklin W. Simon, president of the Simon Companies of Braintree, said that the lease-to-buy program of First American had brought in 16 buyers at his project in Mansfield, a 36-unit condominium called the Courtyard at Webb Place. Prices range from $90,000 to $125,000.
''The first-time buyers who wanted the units didn't have the down payment,'' he said. ''Basically, they are getting free rent for the first five to nine months.''
The purchasing market also has been hurt by the 1986 Tax Reform Act, which curbed the practice of allowing passive investors to apply real estate losses to other forms of income. Investor purchases had been a major factor in spurring condominium development and prices. Sales of all residences dipped about 25 percent between 1986 and 1988 in Suffolk County, an area that includes Boston, according to the business publication Banker and Tradesman. But in the suburbs, the picture is bleaker for condominium sellers.
In Middlesex County, which includes the wealthy town of Cambridge, residential sales, not including condominiums, for the first six months of this year are down 5.4 percent from the same period last year. But condominium sales are down 18 percent.
In Revere, the blue-collar suburb just north of Boston, town officials hoped the real estate boom would erase its deteriorating honky-tonk shoreline. That work was well under way two years ago, when 163 beachfront condominium units were complete and 870 more were under construction or planned. But residential sales declined 18 percent this year, with condominium sales plummeting 66 percent.
Some say part of the problem was that easy money led to overdevelopment. As banks went public during the 80's, stock sales produced the easier availability of loans.
''Condominiums were becoming more popular, and anyone with a pickup truck called themselves a developer,'' said Nora Moran of the Moran Company Realtors of Back Bay, Boston. ''It produced a glut of condos on the market and then with the change in the tax laws, you had people dumping condos.''
Hendrik Holmes, a Boston developer, said developers seeking to get the most return from land sometimes overbuilt, exacerbating a situation of too many condominiums chasing too few buyers. ''One hundred or 200 units at a clip went up,'' he said. ''The market couldn't absorb this.''

GRAPHIC: Condominium project, the Courtyard at Webb Place, Mansfield; the St. George is renting some units and reducing prices on others in Revere Beach (The New York Times/Jim Bourg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (87%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (99%); NASHUA, NH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: FIRST AMERICAN BANK (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BOSTON (MASS)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; CONDOMINIUMS RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (96%); CONDOMINIUMS (93%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); SUBURBS (89%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); LAWYERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (62%); 

PERSON: BRACCIDIFERRO, GAIL



596 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

Sept. 24, 1989, Sunday, National Edition

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 3; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL NOTEBOOK: CEDAR KEY, FLA.;
State Approves Island Marina

BYLINE: By TIM O'REILEY

 BODY:
OVERRIDING the objections of environmentalists and many residents here, the state has approved construction of a marina on the nearby 160-acre island of Atsena Otie, which will make possible its development.
For three years, protesting groups had blocked the building plans of Rex Andrews, who with his sister, Vern Woodlief, inherited the island a mile south of here in 1984. Last month, the Governor and state cabinet granted them a lease on state-controlled submerged land for their slips. 
The lease is critical to the future of Atsena Otie (pronounced at-SEE-nah OH-tee), which is 80 miles north of Tampa on Florida's west coast. It is accessible only by boat and state law prohibits governmental financing of a causeway or bridge to a private island.
Work on the marina can begin Nov. 1, according to the lease. Mr. Andrews, who has a water-treatment company in central Florida, already has retained Pelican Realty of Cedar Key to sell the 36 lots covering the 23 usable acres on the island. Lot prices range from $65,000 to $95,000.
In return for permission to build the marina, Mr. Andrews agreed to cut the number of slips from 43 to 25 and to preserve Indian burial mounds, a manatee habitat and the remains, mostly foundations, of a community that once thrived on the island.
Since granting the lease, the state imposed an indefinite building moratorium on all of 200 islands off the coast pending the drafting by the Department of Natural Resources of a new policy governing their use. The Conservancy, an environmental group based in Naples, counts 112 of the islands as privately owned, and several are under consideration as resort sites. And all but 12 of the islands are off the west coast.
Several cabinet officers who voted for the Atsena Otie marina indicated their support of a ban on the island's development to protect its fragile environments and maintain it as an uninhabited first line of defense against hurricanes.
Now covered by oak and palm trees, Atsena Otie has not had any residents since a turn-of-the-century hurricane destroyed a pencil factory and a dock. The people who survived the storm moved away because the plant, the island's economic base, was not rebuilt. The Andrews family bought the island in the 20's.
Because of the natural threat, all homes will have to be built to Federal Emergency Management Act standards, which include the ability to withstand 19-foot seas and 120 mile-an-hour winds. These rules are in effect throughout coastal Florida.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NAPLES, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CEDAR KEY (FLA)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; BOATS AND BOATING ISLANDS & REEFS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MARINE & WATERWAY CONSTRUCTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); WEATHER (85%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); MARINE MAMMALS (74%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (73%); RESORTS (73%); HISTORIC SITES (70%); OFFICE SUPPLIES MFG (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); 

PERSON: O'REILEY, TIM



597 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

Sept. 24, 1989, Sunday, National Edition

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL NOTEBOOK: LITTLE ROCK, ARK.;
Pedestrian Mall Proves a Failure

BYLINE: By DAVE WANNEMACHER

 BODY:
A 17-YEAR experiment in revitalizing downtown Little Rock with a new and fashionable pedestrian mall called MetroCentre apparently has failed. By next January, the city will begin widening the sidewalks and repaving the bricked streets to open to traffic five of its six blocks. The remaining block will be a pedestrian plaza. What was deemed necessary in 1972 for the downtown's economic health - setting up a traffic-free shopping area - has nearly strangled it, and for the last 11 years three buildings at the center of the mall have remained empty. After 5 P.M., the area is all but deserted. 
Little Rock is following the lead of many other cities in removing its pedestrian mall to allow for more vehicular traffic. Opening five blocks of the mall - now four blocks on Main Street and two blocks on Capitol Avenue - will provide two traffic lanes and two parking lanes.
Two years ago local investors raised $13.5 million to convert several empty rundown buildings along Main Street on the mall into a glitzy retail and office center called MainStreet. The addition of 110,000 square feet of renovated space was a much-needed boost, but a lack of enthusiasm among the 40,000 or so downtown office workers has contributed to a high business turnover rate at MainStreet.
The next steps in renovating the downtown area have already begun several blocks to the south, in the historic Quapaw quarter, the original subdivision of Little Rock.
There, $1.2 million will be spent adding landscaping and replacing streetlights, sidewalks, curbs and gutters. The work will take place on Main between 12th and 17th Streets, a strip bouncing back from several years of neglect.
The project, to be completed by March, is being paid for by $300,000 in city bonds and the rest in bonds issued by the Quapaw Quarter Business Improvement District.
The mall is to be reopened to traffic on Main Street from Third to Seventh Streets and on one block of Capital Avenue. Critics say the mall has lost much of its open-air feeling because trees planted for it are now too large. And other obstructions, like an on again, off again, half-block-long water fountain, block views toward the center of the mall.
The winning bid for tearing up the mall came in at $1.8 million, about $700,000 more than expected, but negotiations are under way to reduce the amount. Sterling Cockrill, executive director of the Metrocentre Improvement District, said traffic should be flowing up and down Main Street in a year.

GRAPHIC: photo of A section of MetroCentre in downtown Little Rock, Ark. (NYT/Clay Carson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (97%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LITTLE ROCK (ARK)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); BOND ISSUES (72%); RETAILERS (71%); 

PERSON: WANNEMACHER, DAVE



598 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1989

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1, Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Golf's Appeal Brings New Courses

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
TO meet what they say is a surging demand in the state for golf, developers are planning to build four new courses, in Columbia, East Lyme, Franklin and Middlefield. At the same time, many golf courses are planning expansions and renovations, from the well-known Tournament Players Club in Cromwell to the municipal course in Manchester.
''It's the fastest growing leisure sport in the country and probably in the world,'' ''It's the fastest growing leisure sport in the country and probably in the world,'' said Cliff W. Cable, general manager of the Innis Arden Golf Club in Old Greenwich. He said the golf industry estimated that if one new course were built every day between now and the turn of the century, it would not be enough to keep up with demand.
Amy J. Starensier, a spokeswoman for Golf Digest magazine, said that there are 162 public, private and municipal golf courses in Connecticut and that almost 11 percent of the state population plays golf, the highest participation rate in New England. 
Mr. Cable said that at his club there is ''a lot of younger interest in the sport, and in club membership.''
''We deter a lot of people from even applying for membership because our waiting list is so long,'' he added. Mr. Cable said someone signing up for membership today could expect to wait at least five years for golf and a year or two for tennis and paddle, two other sports offered at the club.
While the popularity of the sport has been building in Connecticut for several years, Mr. Cable and others in the golf business attribute the waiting lists and the surge in interest to having another golf-playing President in the White House. ''Leaders always tend to affect the public's interests,'' he said.
Nathan Shippee of Old Lyme, who is developing the golf course in East Lyme, said, ''Certainly when the President and Vice President are on the front pages of golf magazines, it gives the sport a lot of prominence.''
Mr. Shippee and the family of George Bush attended the Second Congregational Church in Greenwich. Mr. Shippee left for Texas, to make his fortune in the oil fields, after World War II, about the same time that Mr. Bush left. ''He went into politics and I stayed in oil,'' Mr. Shippee said.
James W. FitzGerald, president of Golf Digest/Tennis Inc. in Trumbull, said the last time golf got such a boost was when Dwight D. Eisenhower was President.
As more players compete for limited playing space in the state, membership fees at some top country clubs are rising. Some players say fees have gone up 50 to 100 percent in five years.
''A membership fee of $25,000 or $30,000 was absolutely unheard of five years ago, but there's several of them around today,'' Mr. FitzGerald said. Private clubs charge $5,000 to $30,000 for an initiation fee, bond and membership for the first year, he said.
Stuart B. Popper, the senior planner in Manchester, where expansion of the municipal course is under way, said golf's growing popularity was a good thing for preservationists.
''It's a nice way to maintain open space,'' Mr. Popper said. But, he said, Manchester lost a private golf course to developers several years ago, and in Glastonbury a private course has been purchased for a housing development where a smaller course will be maintained for residents.
Many courses are being built with luxury housing compleses, and in some cases housing will be built around existing courses.
''A developer sees a golf course as either something to build on or as an amenity for a very exclusive community,'' Mr. Popper said.
''It could be the only way the public will get to play is if municipalities build their own, and in this era of public belt-tightening and fiscal restraint, that's not going to be very likely,'' Mr. Popper said. ''What politician wants to ask taxpayers to spent a few million dollars on a golf course?''
Where they are being developed, though, Connecticut has attracted some of the sport's top names. Ben Crenshaw is designing the East Lyme course. Gary Player has designed another planned for Middlefield.
 
Finding the Land
Golf course developers are also seeking land outside Fairfield County, where most courses in Connecticut are located. Courses are being planned in the towns of Franklin in New London County and Columbia in Tolland County. Besides the popularity of golf, economics has played a part in decisions to find the 130 to 300 acres needed for a golf course in other areas of the state, Mr. FitzGerald said.
''You can't find that much land in Fairfield County at a price that would give you a decent return, using it as a golf course,'' he explained.
Even without the Presidential influence, the new courses make good business sense, said Jerry D. Mobley, general manager of the Cromwell course.
''People have a little more money to spend on recreation, and they're choosing to play golf,'' Mr. Mobley said.
Ms. Starensier of Golf Digest said that the mean household income of golfers in Connecticut is $53,000 and that 24 percent of the golfers here are women, compared with 22 percent nationally.
 
The Sport of Business
Ms. Starensier said Connecticut's growing white-collar work force was another reason for the increase in the sport's popularity. ''Golf plays a significant role in the business arena,'' she said. She said that last weekend she was at a tournament for students at Cornell University. ''The theory behind the tournament is that a good golf swing or good drive is just as important as marketing skills when you get out into the business world,'' Ms. Starensier explained.
Mr. Shippee said he was positive that his $30 million country club on 230 acres in East Lyme, just north of Interstate 95, would be a success. He has already had more offers to buy memberships than are available.
 
Waiting List
''We expect to have a waiting list even before the club opens,'' Mr. Shippee said. He will sell 400 individual and 40 corporate memberships. Members are being drawn from as far as New York, Springfield and Providence.
The course is expected to open in early 1991. Many of the greens are already in place. The property was used by the J. C. Penney Company as a test site for grass seeds and lawnmowers, so it was impeccably maintained before the company moved the operation to Dallas.
Mr. Mobley said the Tournament Players Club course in Cromwell would be completely reconstructed to accommodate 268 luxury townhouses next to the course.
The club purchased 53 adjacent acres on the Connecticut River for the project. The re-design is expected to speed up play by reducing the walk between tees and greens, improving grade levels and creating more space for more golfers.
''It'll be a gorgeous place to live, with all the open space of a golf course,'' Mr. Mobley said, ''and statistics show golf course property retains its value and appreciates quicker than most other properties, except maybe a business property in a good downtown area.''
Others apparently agree with him. So far, 400 people want to buy units, he said, although formal marketing has not begun and construction plans will not even go before the town's Planning and Zoning Commission until next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLF DIGEST

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; COLUMBIA (CONN); EAST LYME (CONN); FRANKLIN (CONN); MIDDLEFIELD (CONN)

SUBJECT: GOLF GOLF (92%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); WORLD WAR II (60%); TOURNAMENTS (57%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (52%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A; STARENSIER, AMY J GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



599 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

World Economy on Stage
Mexico's top debt negotiator says banks' increased reserve cushions could mean fewer third-world loans. 
Trade is another priority for the global finance community. Page D1.
 
Savings on AIDS Medicine
An AIDS drug is much cheaper in Britain than in the United States, and a group is offering to help Americans fill prescriptions there. Page A15.
 
Antarctic Accord Collapses
An accord to tap Antarctica's oil and minerals has collapsed over environmental fears. Now unregulated exploitation is a concern. Page A10.
 
Europe Keeps Ryder Cup
European golfers kept the Ryder Cup after playing to a tie with the United States. SportsMonday, page C1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ANTARCTICA (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (87%); AIDS & HIV (87%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (85%); ANTIVIRALS (85%); 



600 of 722 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1989 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1989

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: Impending U.S. Jobs 'Disaster': Work Force Unqualified to Work

SERIES: Skills vs. Jobs; The Classroom Mismatch - First of three articles.

BYLINE: By EDWARD B. FISKE

 BODY:
David T. Kearns, chairman of the Xerox Corporation, calls it ''the makings of a national disaster.''
Brad M. Butler, former chairman of the Procter & Gamble Company, fears the creation of ''a third world within our own country.''
James E. Burke, chief executive officer of Johnson & Johnson, says it is ''the American dream turned nightmare.''
Corporate America has seen what the nation's schools are producing and it is alarmed.
And many of the students who are most at risk are children from minority groups, the same youngsters who the Labor Department says will fill 56 percent of the new jobs that will open up between 1986 and the year 2000. 
 
Unready for Now or Future
As President Bush prepares to discuss education Wednesday with the nation's governors, population statistics and newly compiled research suggest that American schools are graduating students who lack even the skills needed to fill existing assembly line jobs, let alone the sophisticated new jobs that increasingly dominate the economy.
Research and corporate experience also show that an increasing number of job applicants are among the population groups that are least well served by the nation's schools. ''More than a third of tomorrow's work force will be minorities,'' Mr. Kearns said, ''and half of those are kids growing up poor. A fourth drop out and another fourth don't come close to having the skills to survive in an advanced economy.''
Evidence suggests that they are unlikely to get those skills, since corporations tend to train the workers who already have mastered basic reading and math.
 
Devastating Effects Seen
The result, say leaders in government, business and education, is that America is developing into a nation of educational haves and have-nots, who are fast becoming employment haves and have-nots; that this polarization follows racial lines, and that the effect on the economy and the country could be devastating.
''If we continue to let children who are born in poverty fail to get the kind of education that will allow them to participate in our economy and our society productively,'' Mr. Butler said, ''then some time in the 21st century this nation will cease to be a peaceful, prosperous democracy.''
It is not that America's children are not being educated, researchers say. The problem is that they are not being educated fast enough and at sophisticated enough levels to keep pace with the advances and upgrading in jobs.
''Even the telephone operator job is now computerized,'' said John L. Clendenin, chairman of the board of the BellSouth Corporation in Atlanta. ''Directory assistance operators search a huge electronic data base to retrieve and deliver information to customers. Similarly, most of our clerical jobs require word processing, computer skills or both,'' as do craft jobs and both sales and service positions.
But Mr. Clendenin added: ''In 1987, fewer than 30 percent of employment candidates met our skill and ability requirements for sales, service and technical jobs. Only 15 percent scored at the proficient level on our typing test, and almost 50 percent of those tested were not qualified for jobs requiring even light typing. Over all, we estimate that fewer than 1 in 10 applicants meets all our qualification standards.''
 
Greater Demands in the Future
And the situation is getting worse. ''A recent study found that our jobs will require even more technical knowledge and problem-solving abilities, as more and more rote tasks are performed by computers,'' Mr. Clendenin said. ''With technological change coming more rapidly, even craft employees in the year 2000 will have to adapt and acquire new technical skills rapidly. Most craft employees will also have to be better equipped to interact with customers.''
At the MCI Communications Corporation in Boston, Joanne M. Ramsey, the residential sales manager, said telephone sales jobs paying $7.10 an hour plus incentives are going begging because the company cannot find enough qualified candidates to fill them. ''Now, we have 52 job slots, but only 38 employees,'' she said.
Diane Capstaff, vice president for corporate services and human resources at the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company in Boston, reports similar hiring problems. ''Some applicants don't have the writing skills to prepare a brief letter to a policy holder or simple math and computer skills,'' she said.
Thomas Bailey, a senior research associate at Columbia University, calls the trend now under way the ''upskilling'' of American jobs, meaning a change from learning based on observation to learning acquired through symbols, both verbal and mathematical.
''Semiliterate textile workers used to be able to function because they saw how their machines worked,'' Mr. Bailey said. ''Now, new machines have invisible microprocessors and other electronic components. Technicians have to repair by decoding complicated manuals, diagrams and updates from manufacturers.''
 
New Kinds of Assembly Lines
Literacy requirements have thus risen sharply, he said. So have mathematics requirements, a result of assembly line innovations in which workers must read gauges, printouts and graphs to monitor quality.
''New opportunities for workers with no more than a high school degree are falling sharply,'' Mr. Bailey said. ''In 1987, 54.6 percent of employed workers were in this category; by 2000 it will be down to 46.5 percent.''
The shift from low- to high-skill jobs and the widespread increase in skill requirements of existing jobs have been documented by the Hudson Institute, a research organization, in a Labor Department study titled ''Workforce 2000: Work and Workers for the 21st Century.''
In a subsequent study, not yet published, the authors of ''Workforce 2000,'' William B. Johnston and Arnold H. Packer, have for the first time correlated data on job skill requirements with data on students' educational achievement. Only tests of verbal skills lent themselves to this kind of analysis, but even on this scale, the results were alarming, they said.
They found that average young adults, 21 to 25 years old, are reading at a level significantly below that demanded by the average job available in 1984 and are even further below the requirements of jobs expected to be created between 1984 and the year 2000.
The researchers used the standard Labor Department scale of 1 to 6 ranking the language skills required for various jobs. Scientists, lawyers and engineers operate at the highest level, 6, signifying the ability to read scientific and technical journals and write speeches. Manual labor jobs fall into the bottom category, 1, signifying rudimentary reading and communication.
 
'A Major Mismatch'
The researchers calculated that the 105 million nonmilitary jobs existing in 1984 required an average language proficiency of 3.0, typical of retail salespeople or skilled construction workers. By contrast, the 26 million jobs expected to be created between 1984 and 2000 will require an average level of 3.6.
These figures were then compared with data on literacy among 3,600 young adults compiled by the National Assessment of Educational Progress, a federally supported project that regularly administers tests to national sample groups. Results showed that the average young adult in this country is reading only at a 2.6 level.
''You're talking about a major mismatch of workers and jobs,'' Mr. Packer said.
The mismatch is particularly serious among new, rather than current, jobs. In the Hudson Institute study, Labor Department analysts ranked 87 percent of new jobs at the 3 and 4 levels of reading skills, equivalent to the requirements of sales and marketing positions, but concluded that 97 percent of young adults have skills at the 2 and 3 levels, the needs of farming and transportation work.
 
The Unskilled Will Be Trapped
Evidence strongly indicates that these young workers, who are entering the labor force with inadequate skills, will find themselves in an employment backwater.
''Well educated people are not only the most likely to find employment,'' Mr. Bailey explained, ''but also are the most likely to receive training from their employers. Once trained, their greater productivity earns them more. They switch jobs less frequently and are rarely unemployed. If they change jobs, they find another easily and are more likely to receive further training from new employers.''
But those who start without adequate academic and problem-solving skills fall further behind, he said.
''The well educated face a future of expanding job opportunities and rising wages,'' said Sue E. Berryman, director of the Institute on Education and the Economy at Columbia University's Teachers College, ''while those not well educated face a future of contracting opportunities and poverty.''
The National Assessment of Educational Progress has found some recent improvements in the reading ability of students still in school. But those gains have come primarily in the lower grades, in the most basic reading tasks and among youngsters from low-income families. Thus, millions of students are still underequipped to participate in the emerging job market.
 
Investment in Education Urged
''Our least advantaged students are now drowning in 10 feet of water instead of 15 feet of water, but they're still drowning,'' said Ms. Berryman. ''Lots more are drowning in five feet.' Many business executives, like Mr. Kearns of Xerox, have urged the investment of as much economic and political capital as is needed to overhaul and improve American public education, and thus produce a more highly skilled work force.
''We cannot compete in a world-class economy without a world-class work force,'' Mr. Kearns said, ''and we cannot have a world-class work force without world-class schools.''
In the absence of improved schools, said Mr. Packer of the Hudson Institute, the alternatives are limited: Industry can send skilled jobs overseas, it can automate to accommodate a low-skilled domestic labor force or it can decide against upgrading its operations and the concommitant skill levels of employees.
''Jobs will get filled,'' Mr. Packer said, ''but you're talking about lower productivity and thus a lower standard of living for everyone.''
Next: Basic learning on the job.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Arnold H. Packer, and William B. Johnston of the Hudson Institute. (NYT/Marty Katz); said Sue E. Berryman, director of the Institute on Education and the Economy at Columbia University's Teachers College (NYT/George Tames); graph of the percentage of students and jobs available at each level of verbal skill (source: Labor Dept.) (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (91%); PGP (PAR) (91%); PG (NYSE) (91%); JNJ (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (91%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (60%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (60%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (60%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: XEROX CORP (91%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (91%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (60%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (59%); HUDSON INSTITUTE (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; HIRING AND PROMOTION; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US); SURVEYS AND SERIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); CHILD POVERTY (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (60%); GOVERNORS (53%); 

PERSON: KEARNS, DAVID T; BUTLER, BRAD M; FISKE, EDWARD B GEORGE W BUSH (68%); 

 
