

201 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 U.S. HOPES INTERNET EXPORTS
 Will Open Closed Societies
 Seeking to exploit the Internet's potential for prying open closed societies, the Obama administration will permit technology companies to export online services like instant messaging, chat and photo sharing to Iran, Cuba and Sudan, said a senior administration official. PAGE A4
 JAPAN'S QUIET LEADER 
 In an attempt to improve relations with Japan, officials say diplomats have been quietly negotiating a visit to Washington as early as next month by Ichiro Ozawa, the secretary general of Japan's governing Democratic Party, who is seen as really running the country. News Analysis. Page A7
 National
 ACTIVISTS PUSH TO CARRY 
 Unconcealed Weapons
 A grass-roots effort among some gun rights advocates aims to bring attention to the right to carry unconcealed weapons in the 38 or more states that have so-called open-carry laws.The movement is raising alarm among gun control proponents and exposing rifts among gun rights advocates. PAGE A11
 COLLEGE DISREGARDS NEED
 Hamilton College, a small liberal arts institution in upstate New York, is adopting a need-blind admissions policy, considering applicants regardless of their ability to pay. The decision comes at a time when many institutions are favoring applicants who do not require financial aid. PAGE A13
 TURNING FOCUS TO WALL STREET
 If health care has commanded winter political headlines, Democratic leaders see financial regulation, which remains popular among voters, as a chance for springtime renewal. John Harwood, The Caucus. PAGE A12
 New York
 IN SPEECH AT CHURCH,
 Paterson Vows Not to Resign
 Speaking before a church congregation in Brooklyn, Gov. David A. Paterson declared that he was the victim of innuendo and lies and that he would finish his term. Mr. Paterson said he had no intention of resigning, despite allegations that he had intervened in a domestic violence case against one of his top aides. PAGE A17
 Aiming to Avoid Jailing Youth A16
 Business
 JUGGLING ACT FOR OBAMA 
 In Filling Fed Openings
 The Obama administration is balancing seemingly contrary needs in order to fill three seats on the Federal Reserve's board of governors: the expertise of an outsider with Main Street credentials; a veteran of complex financial deals, but not associated with the bailed-out banks of Wall Street; and an esteemed economist, but one whose vision extends beyond fighting inflation. PAGE B1
 HOPING TO BE FM'S HEIR
 For most of its 10 years, Pandora has been on the verge of death, struggling to find investors and battling over royalties. But a successful iPhone app is fueling interest from investment bankers who think it could go public, and the company hopes that one day it will be as ubiquitous as radio. PAGE B1
 DISPUTE OVER ROYALTIES
 For more than 70 years, royalty payments for air time have flowed to the songwriters and music publishers but not to the musicians or record companies. But there is a drive to revisit that arrangement, and in recent weeks the volume of the discussion has increased several decibels. PAGE B3
 Arts
 'ALICE' FINISHES AT NO. 1
 At Weekend Box Office
 A blockbuster publicity campaign and curiosity about another madcap performance from Johnny Depp pushed ''Alice in Wonderland'' to a stratospheric No. 1 at the weekend box office. PAGE C2
 A BAND ESCHEWS SUBTLETY
 Jon Pareles writes that Muse, a three-man English band that formed in the early 1990s, never misses a chance for melodrama, and even the ballads went boom when the trio performed at Madison Square Garden. PAGE C6 
 Sports
 CONNECTICUT'S WIN STREAK
 Is Now at 70 Games
 The Connecticut women's basketball team tied its own N.C.A.A. record by winning its 70th straight game. The Lady Huskies have not lost since April 6, 2008, when they were upset by Stanford in the national semifinals. The Huskies can break their record in the Big East tournament semifinals, when they play Notre Dame. PAGE D5
 AN UNCAPPED OFFSEASON
 The N.F.L.'s plunge into the great unknown of a season without a salary cap yielded some unexpected results in the first three days of free agency. But some of the big deals suggested that even the drive to save money for a lockout could not entirely snuff out the blood lust for victory. Judy Battista, News Analysis. PAGE D2
 A TUMULTUOUS TENURE
 During his time as the men's basketball coach at Manhattan College, Bobby Gonzalez led the Jaspers to a 129-77 record, and to two N.C.A.A. tournament appearances. He also ran afoul of administrators, went through five secretaries and alienated the bus drivers who shuttled the team around. PAGE D4
 Obituaries
 AARON COHEN, 79
 During a three-decade career at NASA, he helped design space shuttles used in the Apollo moon program and later, as director of the Johnson Space Center, helped the agency recover after the Challenger explosion. PAGE B9
 PHILIP LANGRIDGE, 70
 An English tenor, he was renowned for his portrayals of Benjamin Britten roles and was an eloquent interpreter of Handel, Mozart, Schubert, Janacek and Stravinsky. PAGE B9

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSTANT MESSAGING (90%); FIREARMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); INTERNET CRIME (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (85%); MUSIC (83%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAUCUSES (75%); POLITICS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (72%); BAILOUTS (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (64%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (62%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (62%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (62%); SONG WRITING (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); BANK FAILURES (60%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (74%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) JAPAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010



202 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Juggling Act In Filling Seats at Fed

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- To fill three seats on the Federal Reserve's board of governors, the Obama administration is balancing seemingly contrary needs. 
 It could use the expertise of an outsider with Main Street credentials, but savvy in bank regulation; a veteran of complex financial deals, but not associated with the bailed-out banks of Wall Street; and an esteemed economist, but one whose vision extends beyond fighting inflation.
 The formerly obscure Fed board has, if not quite the visibility of the Supreme Court, the burden of being under greater scrutiny than at any time in nearly 30 years. 
 As they vet potential candidates, Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council, and Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, are balancing their own desires with political pressures from within and outside the White House.
 Among the potential unconventional nominees whose names have been floated in recent days are Martin D. Eakes, a North Carolina lawyer who helped found Self-Help, a community development fund for low-income borrowers; Peter A. Diamond, an M.I.T. economist and an authority on Social Security and pensions; Alan B. Krueger, a Treasury economist on leave from Princeton, who has studied labor, inequality and terrorism; and Jared Bernstein, an adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and a longtime advocate of liberal economic views.
 According to several people who have been briefed on the search process, Mr. Summers, a former Treasury secretary and Harvard president, and Mr. Geithner, a former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, both favor economists with impeccable academic credentials, but they also recognize the need for candidates with regulatory experience and community ties.
 Janet L. Yellen, who was a Fed governor and chairwoman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Clinton administration, has been mentioned as a front-runner to succeed Donald L. Kohn, the departing vice chairman.
 But the people briefed on the process said it was not clear that Ms. Yellen, now president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, would want to return to Washington. The White House might have to do some arm-twisting to get her; as vice chairwoman she would make $179,700, less than half her current pay. 
 Another potential candidate for vice chairman would be Benjamin M. Friedman, a Harvard political economist.
 When Mr. Geithner held a meeting last month with leaders of labor, civil rights and consumer groups to discuss overhauling financial regulation, he found the conversation steering to the Fed, according to several participants. 
 Advocates called on Mr. Geithner to appoint governors who could make the Fed more representative and accountable. Diversity is likely to be another consideration. Of the 87 governors since 1914, there have been seven women and three African-Americans. 
 ''It would really be helpful if they had knowledge of the real economy,'' said William W. Sherrill, a former Fed governor who teaches entrepreneurship in the Bauer College of Business at the University of Houston. ''All the attention lately has been on rescuing the financial sector from ruin, but the inability to move the stimulus over to the real economy -- and most directly, small businesses -- has been the problem.''
 Several banking executives, who have been supporters of Mr. Obama, have been cited as possible nominees: Paul Calello of Credit Suisse, Robert Wolf of UBS and Steven G. Thieke, a veteran of the New York Fed who retired a decade ago from JPMorgan Chase. All have the advantage of not having worked recently at the financial institutions that were at the center of the credit crisis and were bailed out by the Treasury and the Fed, though their ties to the banks could still be problematic.
 But speculation that the White House might turn to nominees not too closely tied to Wall Street or Washington was enhanced after Christina D. Romer, the chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, told several news organizations on Friday that she did not intend or expect to be considered. 
 Ms. Romer is an authority on the Great Depression, like the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and has closely studied the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy-making arm. Her main scholarly collaborator has been her husband, David H. Romer, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, who has himself been mentioned as a possible nominee.
 ''There's obviously a process under way, as there are with any positions,'' Ms. Romer told Politico. ''But I certainly won't be one of them.'' 
 The people briefed on the talks spoke of several economists with ties to Mr. Summers and Mr. Geithner: Edwin M. Truman of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, a veteran of the Fed and the Treasury; the Harvard professors Jeffrey A. Frankel, Jeremy C. Stein and David S. Scharfstein; and David A. Lipton, a former Treasury official who is now at the National Security Council.
 Other names that have been mentioned include Laurence M. Ball, an economist at Johns Hopkins; Austan Goolsbee, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers; and Jason Furman, a deputy to Mr. Summers. 
 All of the potential nominees mentioned in this article either declined to comment, citing the confidentiality of the process, or did not respond to requests for comment. 
 For their part, consumer advocates said they were closely watching the selection process. 
 ''I hope they will give serious consideration to adding people who understand and care about the financial needs of consumers, and who know how to balance access and protection,'' said Jennifer Tescher, director of the Center for Financial Services Innovation, and a member of the Fed's Consumer Advisory Council. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christina D. Romer, a top White House economics official, saidshe did not expect to be considered as a Fed board candidate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
It is not clear that Janet L. Yellen, the president of the FederalReserve Bank of San Francisco, would return to Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Peter A. Diamond, an M.I.T. economist and an authority on SocialSecurity and pensions, is considered to be one candidate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORIO BORGIA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); WOMEN (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BANKING LAW (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); BAILOUTS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); LAWYERS (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%); TERRORISM (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOE BIDEN (58%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010



203 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Slug on the Tracks

BYLINE: By CHRISTIAN WOLMAR. 
Christian Wolmar is the author of ''Blood, Iron and Gold: How the Railroads Transformed the World.''

 BODY:
President Obama has repeatedly insisted that there is no reason why Europe or China, rather than the United States, should have the world's fastest trains, and since coming to office he has committed the country to developing a high-speed rail network of its own. 
 Yet the $8 billion set aside for high-speed rail in his 2009 stimulus package, split among 31 states, includes only two genuine high-speed rail projects -- in Florida and California. And even that money will do little more than kick-start the schemes. The rest of the package will go to upgrading various sections of the Amtrak network. 
 High-speed rail lines are expensive and can take years, even decades, to complete, particularly in a country as large as the United States. As a consequence, the president needs a quick success to show America what a genuine high-speed railway can offer. Fortunately, he has a great test case right on his doorstep: the Acela services along Amtrak's Northeast Corridor, which the stimulus package essentially ignored.
 A high-speed rail service is not just a matter of a few sleek carriages running a couple of regional trips per day on lines already crowded with freight trains. High-speed rail services need dedicated lines. And they operate best between cities a few hundred miles apart -- longer trips take too much time, making aviation attractive, while shorter trips are easier by car. That's why the world's first high-speed rail line was built between Tokyo and Osaka; likewise, across Europe city pairs, like Madrid-Barcelona and Paris-Lyon, have been linked by high-frequency services. 
 And that's what makes the Acela lines from Washington to Boston the best opportunity to create a real high-speed, high-frequency service to compete with air travel along the Northeastern Seaboard. 
 But isn't Acela already a high-speed service? Not at all. By European standards, it would be a regional express: It runs just once an hour, the track is too curvy for the trains to reach their potential speed of 150 miles per hour (except on one 35-mile section of the line), and because Acela is often held up by freight trains and road crossings, it averages barely half that speed for the entire journey. 
 The 450-mile trip from Boston to Washington takes almost seven hours and averages just 71 miles per hour, hardly faster than by car and uncompetitive with air, while the 225-mile journey from New York to Washington takes two hours and 45 minutes, longer than Penn Central's Metroliner often took in the 1960s. Contrast that with the nearly 500 miles covered by Paris-Marseille trains in just three hours, an average of over 160 miles per hour. 
 While Amtrak claims that Acela has carved out a good share of the market -- 49 percent of the rail-air passengers traveling between New York and Boston -- there is the potential to do far better with improved speeds and frequency. More than 70 percent of travelers between London and Paris go by rail, while on routes like Paris-Lyon air travel has been virtually eliminated. 
 How can Acela be improved without building an entirely new system? Money is needed to improve the overhead electric wires, straighten out curves and upgrade the track. And more trains are needed to increase trip frequency, reduce overcrowding and offer flexibility. 
 It's not just a matter of money, though. The government must do away with a host of state and federal regulations that reduce train speed and are far too restrictive. 
 America needs to be lured back to the railways that once dominated its transportation system. If we can show what can be done in one corridor, we can inspire the development of better train service in other parts of the country. 
 Who knows? Perhaps someday, like the Trains a Grande Vitesse in France or the Shinkansen in Japan, an Acela train speeding past the Statue of Liberty could be the defining image of a second great American railway age.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIK T. JOHNSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (93%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRAINS (89%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (77%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (86%); LYON, FRANCE (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (75%); OSAKA, JAPAN (75%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (86%); JAPAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010



204 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4333 words

HEADLINE: Deal to Save Everglades May Help Sugar Firm

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. and DAMIEN CAVE; Tom Torok contributed reporting.

 BODY:
When Gov. Charlie Crist announced Florida's $1.75 billion plan to save the Everglades by buying out a major landowner, United States Sugar, he declared that the deal would be remembered as a public acquisition ''as monumental as the creation of the nation's first national park, Yellowstone.'' 
 Standing amid the marshes at the Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge in June 2008, Mr. Crist said, ''I can envision no better gift to the Everglades, the people of Florida and the people of America -- as well as our planet -- than to place in public ownership this missing link that represents the key to true restoration.''
 Nearly two years later, the governor's ambitious plan to reclaim the river of grass, as the famed wetlands are known, is instead on track to rescue the fortunes of United States Sugar. 
 The proposal was downsized only five months after it was announced. By April 2009, amid the deepening recession, the state said it could afford to purchase only 72,800 acres of United States Sugar's land, for $536 million. The company would stay in business and the state would retain the option of buying the remaining 107,000 acres at a future date.
 United States Sugar dictated many of the terms of the deal as state officials repeatedly made decisions against the immediate needs of the Everglades and the interests of taxpayers, an examination of thousands of state e-mail messages and records and more than 60 interviews showed.
 Efforts to restore the Everglades have picked up urgency in the last decade: the sprawling subtropical wetland, the only ecosystem of its kind, is dying for lack of clean water. Many environmentalists remain convinced that Mr. Crist's deal with United States Sugar, even in its downsized form, offers the Everglades its best hope. 
 But documents and interviews suggest that the price tag and terms of the deal could set back Everglades restoration for years, or even decades.
 Negotiations favored United States Sugar from the start, when the state accepted two outside firms' appraisals of the company's land that used figures from the height of the real estate market, according to documents.
 When a ''fairness opinion'' commissioned by the state found that those appraisals had overvalued the land by $400 million, Florida officials orchestrated a public relations campaign to discredit the findings, internal e-mail showed. Appraisers from the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, which was required to sign off on the deal, were also cut out of the process after raising concerns, e-mail messages showed.
 When it came time to decide which land to buy, state officials acknowledged that United States Sugar was, as one official put it during an interview, ''pretty much in the driver's seat.'' The water district overseeing the restoration will end up with six large disconnected parcels under the current deal, including all of United States Sugar's citrus groves.
 State officials acknowledged that some of that land, which has been ravaged by canker, a plant disease, is useless for restoration.
 The officials defended the negotiations as appropriate, saying that United States Sugar needed certain tracts of farmland to continue operating. 
 Mr. Crist said in an interview that officials had ''negotiated to try to get the very best deal we could.'' He added, ''We have a duty and a responsibility as good stewards to understand that we may never have this opportunity again, ever, ever.''
 Supporters of the plan said the land would enable the state and federal government to build reservoirs and water treatment systems. But doing so would require deep financial reserves from the South Florida Water Management District, which oversees restoration and is financed by taxpayers in 16 counties. Internal district documents put the price tag at up to $12 billion and projected that the district would have nowhere near that amount. 
 In the meantime, more than a dozen projects under way as part of a 10-year-old federal and district restoration effort have been suspended or canceled in anticipation of the cost of the United States Sugar deal. Among them is a massive reservoir in western Palm Beach County that was seen as a major step toward restoration of the Everglades. In total, $1.3 billion had already been spent on the projects, according to an internal water district document. 
 Former Gov. Jeb Bush, who initiated most of that work, said in an interview that he was ''deeply disappointed'' with the decision by Mr. Crist, his successor and a fellow Republican, calling the move to halt the projects a setback for restoration.
 ''To replace projects that were under way for a possibility of a project decades from now is not a good trade,'' Mr. Bush said. ''On a net basis, this appears to me there has been a replacement of science-based environmental policy for photo-op environmental policy.''
 In its current form, the deal's only clear, immediate beneficiaries would be United States Sugar, a privately held company based in Clewiston, Fla., and its law firm, Gunster, which is expected to collect tens of millions of dollars in fees for its work on the sale, according to current and former United States Sugar executives.
 The sale, scheduled to close March 31, amounts to a lifeline for the company, which entered negotiations at a time of profound weakness; it was facing a costly shareholder lawsuit, sinking profit margins and increased foreign competition. The deal would enable it to wipe nearly all the debt from its books.
 United States Sugar had an unusually powerful advocate in Gunster, a West Palm Beach law firm that had represented it since 1990. Gunster's chairman, George LeMieux, was Governor Crist's chief of staff when the deal was first conceived. Mr. LeMieux, who began working at the law firm in 1994, returned to it in January 2008 as the deal was being renegotiated. 
 He and Mr. Crist are confidants, and the governor referred to Mr. LeMieux as the ''maestro'' of his 2006 election victory. When a United States Senate seat was vacated in 2009, Mr. Crist appointed Mr. LeMieux to fill it. The governor is now campaigning for that post and has often described the United States Sugar purchase as a crowning achievement of his administration.
 Mr. LeMieux said in an interview that he had recused himself from the United States Sugar negotiations while he was chief of staff, to avoid a conflict of interest. He said he had never discussed the deal with Mr. Crist, which was ''awkward as heck,'' given how close they are. 
 Back at the law firm, Mr. LeMieux sent an e-mail message on Dec. 18, 2008, to its compensation committee, saying ''I should not be compensated'' for the firm's United States Sugar representation, according to a copy of the message. H. William Perry, Gunster's managing partner, said the firm complied. Mr. LeMieux said that he had only ''management type discussions'' about the case as chairman.
 Rick J. Burgess, a Gunster partner, said he spoke to Mr. LeMieux on occasion about the deal, using him ''as a sounding board.''
 Mr. LeMieux played a similar role for Kirk Fordham, who runs the powerful Everglades Foundation. Mr. Fordham said he spoke two or three times with Mr. LeMieux when he was at the law firm for updates about the negotiations. 
 For United States Sugar, ''it's a fantastic deal,'' said a former senior executive of the company, who described his colleagues as ''elated.'' 
 ''I won't lie to you -- it's a damn good price for that land,'' said the executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he had signed a nondisclosure agreement. ''But it's not as good a deal for the Everglades. If the district doesn't have any money after this purchase, then they won't be able to do any restoration projects. It could be a disaster in the making.''
 A Governor's Overture
 On Route 27 heading out of Palm Beach, towering piles of rocks extend for more than a mile on the site of what was to become the largest man-made reservoir on the planet. Consuming more than 16,000 acres, it would hold enough water to fill 100,000 Olympic-size swimming pools.
 The reservoir was a vital piece of the $7.8 billion restoration project put together by President Bill Clinton in 2000. Under the plan, reservoirs, marshes and hundreds of wells would collect, clean and deliver rainwater to the Everglades, where an array of plants and animals are threatened with extinction. 
 Environmentalists had long sought to restore the historic flow way, or waterway, from Lake Okeechobee south through the glades and into Florida Bay, a dream that had been hampered by more than a century of piping, dredging and development. The flow way required land owned by United States Sugar and its chief competitor, Florida Crystals, both of which refused to sell for years. 
 The system of wells and reservoirs was a way to circumvent that need. Like many previous restoration efforts, though, the Clinton plan hit obstacles, including competing local interests and insufficient financing from the federal government. 
 Even so, in 2004, Governor Bush was able to accelerate eight projects; some $282 million alone was spent on the giant reservoir. 
 But by 2007, with a sagging sugar business looking to prop up its balance sheet and a new governor looking to burnish his environmental and national credentials, the fate of the Everglades was about to take another abrupt turn. 
 United States Sugar's debt soared that year to more than $500 million, former executives said, as operational problems and competitive pressures mounted. The company was in its second year of drought and further hampered by a recent water district restriction limiting a method of irrigation that sugar growers relied on during the dry seasons.
 On Nov. 15, 2007, two United States Sugar lobbyists met in the governor's office with Mr. Crist and Eric Eikenberg, the deputy chief of staff under Mr. LeMieux. 
 The lobbyists, J. M. Stipanovich and Brian Ballard, had supported Mr. Crist's campaign for governor, and Mr. Ballard was one of its major fund-raisers. United States Sugar was still reeling from the government's decision to limit irrigation. 
 ''It was a visit to open his eyes, to open his ears to the idea that a lot of these decisions were affecting their livelihood,'' Malcolm S. Wade Jr., a senior vice president at United States Sugar, said in an interview. 
 At the meeting, the governor announced that the state might be interested in buying United States Sugar. Mr. Crist said in an interview that he could not remember ''the particulars'' of when or how the idea had originated.
 ''There was a sense, or some indirect communication, that they might be a willing seller,'' the governor said.
 Mr. Wade said that the company had been taken by surprise. ''It caught everyone out of the blue,'' he said.
 For its board members, Mr. Crist's overture was appealing in part because they figured a government purchase would be far more lucrative than a private deal.
 ''It wasn't another company coming in and bottom-fishing you,'' Mr. Wade said. ''They knew it would be for fair-market appraisals.''
 A Setback Seems Averted
 When the state began negotiating its ambitious plan to save the Everglades, key players were, notably, not invited.
 Missing from the table, according to interviews and e-mail messages, were Miccosukee Indian tribe members, some of whom live in the Everglades; the Florida Crystals Corporation, the other major landowner in the area; and the federal agencies that partner with the state on restoration efforts. 
 Lawyers for the Miccosukees and Florida Crystals said their clients found out about the proposed deal with United States Sugar just a few days before it was announced to the public. 
 Likely supporters of the deal had been told months earlier, including Paul Tudor Jones II, a billionaire hedge-fund manager and philanthropist who co-founded the Everglades Foundation. The governor was friendly with Mr. Jones, who had contributed $400,000 to the state Republican Party -- the largest single donation it ever received. And Mr. Jones was influential with other environmental groups that he and his foundation helped finance with millions of dollars. 
 As the negotiations proceeded, it became clear that financing was problematic. The cost of the land deal had initially been estimated at nearly $2 billion. But the water district was already committed to spending about $800 million for the giant reservoir outside Palm Beach. It could not afford both. 
 Responding to an e-mail message from a fellow environmentalist saying that the governor needed to understand the threat the reservoir posed to the United States Sugar land purchase, Mr. Jones replied, ''He knows that and is doing the best he can.''
 Yet stopping construction of the reservoir presented a potential political disaster.
 So on May 15, 2008, with the United States Sugar deal still not public, the water board suspended work on the reservoir because of ''uncertainties related to unresolved litigation.''
 The litigation referred to a lawsuit environmental groups had filed over water usage from the reservoir. The announcement stunned the groups, which had made it clear that they did not want the project stopped.
 ''We were a convenient pretext,'' said Bradford H. Sewell, a lawyer for one of the groups.
 There were enormous financial consequences. The district had to pay the reservoir's contractor a $2 million-a-month penalty for suspending the work. It eventually paid $25 million in penalties and fines for canceling the contract, on top of the $282 million it had already spent on the construction.
 Fallout from the suspension was mounting when Shannon A. Estenoz, a member of the district's advisory board who had been on the board of the Everglades Foundation, reached out to Mr. Jones. In an e-mail message on May 21, Ms. Estenoz urged Mr. Jones to send a message to the governor: ''For your information only, our decision to pause construction is entirely justifiable on its own even without the US Sugar deal hanging out there, but once the litigation is finished our legitimate reason for delay goes away,'' she said. ''The message to the Governor is that we have until the end of the June at most.''
 On June 24, 2008, with Florida already experiencing a recession and property values sinking, Ms. Estenoz stood beside the governor at the edge of the Everglades as he unveiled the $1.75 billion deal. Local cheers and sweeping national headlines followed. 
 Politically, the timing was perfect. Mr. Crist was on the short list of potential running mates for Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee for president. 
 Ellen Simms, a former United States Sugar comptroller who views the deal skeptically, said that despite the high cost to taxpayers, it was difficult in those early days to question it. ''Who can be against it?'' she said. ''This was going to save the Everglades. It's like being against motherhood and apple pie.''
 A few did speak out. The Miccosukee Tribe quickly filed a lawsuit, saying that the purchase would delay the restoration. ''This is a death warrant for the Everglades,'' said Dexter Lehtinen, a lawyer for the tribe. ''It sucks away all the money devoted to projects now in the pipeline.''
 Florida Crystals labeled the deal a taxpayer-supported buyout of United States Sugar, and seemed to be smarting from being left out of it. Some of its land, in fact, was needed to recreate the waterway through the Everglades, which Mr. Crist called ''the missing link'' of restoration.
 Interviews and previously undisclosed records showed that Florida Crystals had made two written offers to join in the deal. But, with United States Sugar resisting having its competitor involved, talks with the governor's office went nowhere. 
 ''For some reason, they weren't willing to negotiate in a way that would bring us to an accord,'' Mr. Crist said in an interview. ''U.S. Sugar was. End of story.''
 Twists and Disappointments
 The growing financial crisis in the summer of 2008 was rapidly changing the scope of the deal. On Nov. 11, 2008, Mr. Crist announced a smaller, $1.34 billion purchase of just over 180,000 acres of United States Sugar's land, but this time not including its other assets. 
 At a press conference, Mr. Crist called the new deal ''miraculous.'' 
 For United States Sugar, at least, it looked that way. David Guest, an environmental lawyer and vocal supporter of the full buyout plan, said that the state's lead negotiator, Michael W. Sole, secretary of Florida's Environmental Protection Department, had given away far too much to United States Sugar. 
 ''He got scammed,'' Mr. Guest said. ''Everyone gasped in disbelief when he came back with what he did.''
 Mr. Sole said in an interview that he got the best deal he could. 
 But internal district documents revealed that the land had been overvalued by the two firms that performed the independent appraisals. Both relied on figures from 2004 to 2008, when a speculative real estate market had prices soaring. 
 If the current prices had been used, the state would be paying far less. For example, while the water district agreed to pay United States Sugar nearly $7,000 an acre for citrus land, it is now selling for $4,000 an acre, independent appraisers said recently in interviews. 
 The two outside appraisal firms used by the district -- Anderson & Carr, of West Palm Beach, Fla., and Sewell, Valentich, Tillis & Associates, of Sarasota -- came up with almost identical figures of around $1.3 billion, a rarity that raised some eyebrows.
 ''When I had heard that number, I couldn't swallow it -- it was an unbelievable number,'' said Woody Hanson, a land appraiser in Fort Myers with extensive experience in the Everglades. ''Then I looked closely at the appraisals to test them for reasonableness and, wow, there is just no way it makes sense for the taxpayers.''
 Neither appraisal firm used by the district would comment.
 Eric Buermann, chairman of the district's advisory board, defended the appraisals but acknowledged that they had used outdated values. ''At the time we had to make the decision,'' he said, ''those were the latest, best numbers available.'' 
 Yet when the appraisals were updated in 2009, they still relied on sale prices from 2004 to 2006, documents showed. District officials said the appraisers assured them that prices had held steady.
 In an interview, Mr. Crist said critics of the appraisals were underestimating the land's environmental value. 
 But the appraisers for the Florida Department of Environmental Protection had also questioned the methods of the two firms. According to internal e-mail, Thomas Porter, one of the department's appraisers, would not give his requisite approval by the deadline. 
 In response, United States Sugar's lawyers at Gunster persuaded the water district to change the contract so the department's sign-off was no longer required, records showed. Several days after Mr. Crist's November press conference, the water district learned that the firm it had hired to render the fairness opinion -- an analysis of the entire deal -- had also concluded that the land was worth far less.
 The firm, Duff & Phelps, based in Manhattan, estimated the United States Sugar property was worth $930 million, about $400 million less than what the district would be paying. 
 When the firm's opinion arrived at the district, officials there consulted with Mr. Sole, the Environmental Protection secretary, about the best way to respond. The timing was critical because the district's board was scheduled to vote less than one month later, in mid-December, on the $1.34 billion purchase.
 Officials who had commissioned the Duff & Phelps report, at a cost of $1.5 million, were now scrambling to minimize its impact. Internal e-mail messages showed that the district's scripted response for reporters was sent to Mr. Eikenberg, Mr. Crist's deputy chief of staff, as well as several prominent environmentalists. 
 ''It is not an appraisal and does not provide a conclusion about the value of the acquisition relative to its public purpose,'' the district's statement said.
 The deputy executive director for government and public affairs at the water district wrote talking points. ''Note: There are differing views about the merit of fairness opinions within the business and academic communities,'' the public affairs official wrote, according to the e-mail.
 Robert E. Coker, a United States Sugar vice president, was more blunt, characterizing Duff & Phelps publicly as ''Huey, Dewey and Louie.'' He argued that Florida was paying bargain-basement prices, saying ''the state is getting the Hope Diamond at cubic zirconia prices.'' 
 Paying for the land was only the beginning. A slide show prepared by the district on restoration projects and construction detailed one estimate that put the effort at $8.6 billion and another at $12.3 billion, according to records obtained by The New York Times.
 Even at the lower estimate and with the federal government paying its share, the district would struggle to bear the costs. The details of the deal were now raising concerns among some district board members and environmentalists. 
 An unlikely cheerleader emerged. George LeMieux, despite having insisted that he had nothing to do with the deal, appeared at a legal conference in Deerfield Beach and offered ''an insider's account'' of Everglades restoration.
 In a keynote address that went uncovered by the local media, Mr. LeMieux described the United States Sugar deal as ''an unprecedented opportunity, really a game changer.''
 ''We really stand at the intersection of opportunity and possibility,'' he said. ''We have a historic opportunity to change the face of the Everglades and our environment with this acquisition of the U.S. Sugar lands.''
 'In the Driver's Seat'
 In western Hendry County, on either side of State Road 833, sits Devil's Garden, a 5,500-acre orange grove. The land is elevated with soils that are sandy -- a mix that is far from ideal for Everglades restoration. 
 Thomas Van Lent, a hydrologist for the Everglades Foundation, said he had ''no idea'' why the state had agreed to purchase it as part of the deal. 
 Mr. Wade, the United States Sugar senior vice president, does. ''Buy it all,'' he said he told the state. ''I don't want to be left with just a piece of the groves.''
 An environmental assessment presented to the district revealed that 49,000 acres of the United States Sugar land was contaminated with high levels of copper, DDT, selenium and other chemicals. Arsenic was detected at levels above human health standards in more than 6,000 acres of land, the documents showed. 
 Mr. Buermann, the water district advisory board chairman, said the state had little choice but to let United States Sugar choose what it wanted to sell. 
 ''You have to understand that once the deal shrunk and we were not buying the sugar mill, the assets, U.S. Sugar had to be concerned about what lands they could let loose on and keep their business running on their end,'' he said. ''It's understandable that they would be pretty much in the driver's seat as to what lands they could afford to sell.''
 Like other supporters, Mr. Buermann compared the deal to William Seward's purchase of Alaska, declaring that history would celebrate the acquisition. 
 ''The issue for usis can we use that land, and the answer is yes,'' he said. ''If we had a choice with all the land, it might not be our first choice of the inventory, but that doesn't mean it isn't valuable.''
 In April 2009, Governor Crist announced a second downsizing of the deal, necessitated again, he said, by the state's shrinking economy. The district would now buy 72,800 acres for $536 million. Critics said that as the deal got smaller, it got better for U.S. Sugar.
 Under the terms of the new deal, United States Sugar will be able to keep farming some of the land for at least seven years. As a result, some environmental experts believe, the Everglades will be worse off in the short term.
 ''What you have is just another step in the category of kicking the ball down the road and chasing it,'' said Alan Farago, the conservation chairman of Friends of the Everglades. 
 Criticism from other environmentalists, though, has been muted. Some have acknowledged concerns, but do not want to say anything that might help kill what would be the largest land purchase ever for the Everglades. With the state retaining an option to buy the rest of United States Sugar's land, there also remains a romantic adherence in some quarters to the dream of a restored river of grass from Lake Okeechobee to Florida Bay. 
 ''The whole concept that we are able to get additional land out of the E.A.A. -- that has always been very difficult to do in the past,'' said John H. Hankinson Jr., chairman of the board of directors at Audubon of Florida, referring to the Everglades Agricultural Area. ''And that I think is ingrained in a lot of the consciousness of the people involved in this.'' 
 Even if the deal goes through, it could be another generation before the Everglades gets what it needs. 
 Mr. Buermann said the water district was still analyzing whether it could afford to pay the $536 million and would discuss it at a two-day board meeting beginning Wednesday. Mr. Crist recently appointed two new members to the water board, both of whom support the purchase. 
 In an interview on Feb. 26, by phone as he traveled through the Everglades on the road known as Alligator Alley, the governor said that critics of the deal would come up with ''all kinds of reasons not to do something.''
 ''But what are they doing to try and preserve the Everglades, other than complain about it?'' he said. ''What are they doing in a productive way to move forward and preserve this national treasure that exists nowhere else on the face of the earth? Nothing but complain. I rest my case.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert H. Buker Jr., left, of United States Sugar, and Gov. Charlie Crist signing a deal in 2008.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL INGRAM/PALM BEACH POST, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A1)
WAITING: Work was suspended on a 16,000-acre man-made reservoir along Route 27, heading out of Palm Beach. It is part of an Everglades restoration project put together by President Bill Clinton in 2000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14)
FIELDS OF CANE: United States Sugar's Clewiston sugar cane refinery. A $1.75 billion deal to sell land and assets to Florida was reduced to 72,800 acres, in separate parcels, for $536 million.
 IN THE GLADES: Dexter Lehtinen, foreground, a lawyer, filed a lawsuit on behalf of the Miccosukee Indians, who contend that the land deal ''sucks away all the money devoted to projects now in the pipeline.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A15) MAP: Restoring the Everglades: Florida plans to buy citrus and sugar cane land from United States Sugar for $536 million to increase water storage and treatment for the Everglades, with the option of buying additional property later. But to create a contiguous flow way from Lake Okeechobee to the Everglades, Florida would also need to acquire land owned by Florida Crystals, an option no longer being pursued by the state or Florida Crystals. (Source: South Florida Water Management District) (MAPS BY HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); WETLANDS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); LAND RECLAMATION (74%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); WILDLIFE (71%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (69%); REAL ESTATE (68%); WATER QUALITY (67%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (63%); RECESSION (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010



205 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CAMPAIGN SPOTLIGHT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: This Brand Doesn't Mind Being in the Soup

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The world was treated to a terrific game when the United States and Canadian hockey teams played each other at the Winter Olympics. But Canadians and Americans can cooperate, too, as demonstrated by a campaign for a venerable brand.
 The campaign, from the Nabisco division of Kraft Foods, promotes the ability of Premium saltine crackers to liven up a prosaic bowl of soup. The campaign began last fall in Canada and arrived in this country last month, with some changes.
 For instance, the gold medals in the ads had to be replaced with silver ones. (Just kidding, American hockey fans.)
 Actually, the major modification was a switch in songs in the television commercial that is the centerpiece of the campaign, replacing a Canadian rock tune with one better known to Americans. 
 The campaign originated with a Canadian agency that works for Kraft, Sharpe Blackmore Euro RSCG in Toronto, part of the Euro RSCG Worldwide unit of Havas. It was adapted for the United States by the Euro RSCG office in New York.
 The commercial represents the first time that Premium has been advertised on television to American consumers since 1986. In Canada, where Kraft sells its crackers and cookies under the Christie name, Premium Plus, as the brand is called in that country, had returned to TV in February 2008 after a hiatus of almost 20 years, the Canadian trade publication Marketing reported.
 Whichever country the cracker is crumbled in, the campaign is indicative of how marketers of consumer packaged goods are paying additional attention to their vintage brands. Those efforts have accelerated since the Great Recession began in late 2007, as consumers started trying to save money by eating out less and at home more.
 Many of those consumers are turning to familiar products to stay within their newly narrowed budgets, among them Betty Crocker cake mixes, Campbell's soups, Del Monte vegetables, Heinz ketchup, Hellmann's mayonnaise, Hormel chili, Jif peanut butter, Kellogg's cereals and Swanson frozen dinners.
 Kraft Foods is emblematic of the trend, as the company brings out new campaigns for its older products, redesigns their packages and freshens them up with line extensions and new flavors. There have been numerous changes in the agency assignments for those brands, too, as Kraft shuffles creative accounts.
 In addition to Premium, Kraft brands that are being readied again for their close-ups include Jell-O, Kraft Macaroni & Cheese, Kraft Philadelphia cream cheese, Kraft Singles, Oscar Mayer, Planters snacks and Nabisco products like Oreo, Ritz and Wheat Thins.
 And this week, another Nabisco product, Triscuit, will introduce a campaign by Euro RSCG New York that encourages consumers to consider home farming. ''When you plant a seed, you grow a movement,'' the headline of a print advertisement asserts.
 A section of the Triscuit Web site is being devoted to information about home farming and an organization, Urban Farming. There will be grants for sustainability programs through Future Farmers of America.
 And four million Triscuit packages will include cards of basil and dill seeds, which can be planted at home for herb gardens.
 One reason mainstay brands are faring well in the weak economy is ''their very strong connection with consumers built around trust and heritage,'' says Scott Christensen, Premium brand manager at the Nabisco division of Kraft Foods in East Hanover, N.J.
 ''This idea of reliability, a product that's comforting and nurturing,'' is strong during tumultuous times, he adds. ''Consumers are returning to products and brands they know and trust.''
 In the last couple of years, there has been a ''resurgence'' of Premium, Mr. Christensen says, which is the market-share leader in the saltine-cracker category, based ''on the budget-friendly idea.''
 ''As the economy as receded, people value our offering more,'' he adds, citing a ''positive growth trend, in the low to mid single digit'' percentages, for the saltine category in general and Premium in particular.
 ''That's pretty significant,'' Mr. Christensen says, ''since saltines is a mature category.''
 Indeed. The product dates to the early 1800s, when it was called soda crackers, and Premium -- which has the majority of the saltine market in the United States, according to Mr. Christensen -- was introduced in 1876.
 Other major saltine brands include Sunshine Krispy, Keebler Zesta and Keebler Export Sodas, all sold by the Kellogg Company. There are also myriad saltines sold under private-label and store-brand names.
 Research determined that there was ''a prime opportunity,'' Mr. Christensen says, ''to strengthen the connection with consumers around the idea of Premium saltines and soup.''
 ''It works on multiple levels,'' he explains: ''There's the budget-friendly component. It's a familiar occasion for consumers. And it's very comforting.''
 ''There's a huge opportunity for Premium,'' Mr. Christensen says, given that ''U.S. adults enjoy soup over nine billion times a year and Premium is paired less than 5 percent of the time.''
 Meantime, in Canada, the Premium Plus brand had been celebrating for a couple of years what happens when soup and crackers combine. First came the 2008 commercial, called ''Fireworks,''in which the bringing together of soup and Premium Plus causes joyous explosions as the song ''I Just Want to Celebrate'' plays on the soundtrack.
 Next came the commercial last fall featuring the rock song, a tune from the 1970s, ''Raise a Little Hell,'' by a Canadian band, Trooper.
 That spot begins with a bowl of soup onscreen as a soft '60s pop song, ''Mr. Lonely,''is played at low volume.
 A box of Premium Plus appears, and the mood immediately changes. As crackers fall from the box, ''Raise a Little Hell'' plays and soup splashes everywhere.
 The commercial ends with a veritable tidal wave of red soup covering the entire screen as these words appear: ''Add some Plus. Premium Plus.''
 The Canadian campaign gave executives in the United States who oversee Premium a chance ''to contemporize a strong business for Nabisco,'' Mr. Christensen says, ''one that historically has not received quite as much attention'' as other brands.
 ''We looked across the border to our partners in Canada,'' he adds, who have had ''great success'' with their initiative to revitalize Premium Plus.
 Making that cross-cultural effort easier was ''the strong similarities between the United States saltine consumer and the Canadian saltine consumer,'' Mr. Christiansen says, which meant ''we had something we could repurpose.''
 Enter the staff of Euro RSCG New York, who discussed an American adaptation with their counterparts at Sharpe Blackmore Euro RSCG.
 The basis for the Canadian campaign is that the pairing of Premium Plus and soup ''from a taste standpoint, a texture standpoint, even the act of cracking the cracker, made the soup occasion better,'' says Ron Tite, vice president and creative director at Sharpe Blackmore Euro RSCG.
 The second commercial was designed ''to accentuate the positive aspects'' of when the soup and crackers ''come together,'' he adds, which was enhanced by the use of ''Raise a Little Hell,'' described by Mr. Tite as ''a good, rocking tune.'' Israel Garber, executive creative director at Euro RSCG New York, picks up the story.
 ''We were asked to take a look at'' the Canadian spot, Mr. Garber says, ''and we loved it.''
 ''It was clearly a breakthrough way to use music to raise awareness'' of Premium, he adds, which was necessary because in the United States ''with all the private-label brands, we're getting squashed a little bit on choice and value.''
 The campaign declares that Premium ''is the cracker that rocks out with soup,'' Mr. Garber says. ''Anything less, and you don't have a great soup experience.''
 That sentiment is expressed in the American version with the theme ''Premium love,'' which is accentuated with the addition of bright lights to the commercial, he adds, ''like you're at a show.''
 ''The critical thing was, what would be the song in the United States?'' Mr. Garber says. ''We went with an '80s hair band, Scorpions, and 'Rock You Like a Hurricane.' ''
 ''It all came together,'' he adds, ''building on a great concept.''
 The American version begins the same way as the Canadian, with a bowl of soup onscreen as ''Mr. Lonely'' plays. The box of saltines arrives -- with the package of Christie Premium Plus replaced by a package of Nabisco Premium, of course. The box opens and crackers again fall out.
 This time, these words appear on screen as ''Mr. Lonely'' abruptly ends and ''Rock You Like a Hurricane'' begins: ''Give your soup'' ... ''some'' ...''Premium love.''
 The crackers fall into multiple soup bowls, the lights flash, and huge splashes happen, almost like lava erupting from volcanoes.
 Asked what the Canadians think of how the Americans adapted their work, Mr. Tite says, laughing, ''We decided to get back in Olympic hockey.''
 Actually, ''our two offices collaborate all the time,'' he adds. ''And work that Israel's team do we pick up all the time.''
 The American commercial began running on Feb. 8 in what Mr. Christensen calls ''20 key markets'' for Premium, among them Louisville, Ky.; Miami; Milwaukee; New York; Phoenix; Seattle and Portland, Ore.; and Tampa, Fla.
 The spot then ran for three weeks, including in commercial breaks on local NBC stations in those markets during coverage of the Winter Games.
 It took a week off and comes back this week, Mr. Christensen says, running through the end of March, ''when soup season starts to wind down.''
 There are also posters in stores around the country that sell Premium, he adds, echoing the graphic look of the commercial and offering coupons good for a dollar off the purchase of a box of Premium and a can of soup or chili.
 Nabisco is looking at ways of ''strengthening the linkage between Premium and soup,'' Mr. Christensen says, that might include, say, adding an image from the commercial to Premium packages.
 Now if only they could figure out a way to play ''Rock You Like a Hurricane'' whenever the box is opened. Or even ''O Canada.''
 If you like In Advertising, be sure to read the Advertising column that runs Monday through Friday in the Business Day section of The New York Times print edition and on nytimes.com.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SNACK FOODS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); CHEESE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); OLYMPICS (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (77%); PACKAGED GOODS (77%); FAST MOVING CONSUMER GOODS (77%); TRENDS (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (75%); SPORTS FANS (73%); WINTER OLYMPICS (73%); FROZEN FOODS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUDGETS (69%); DINING OUT TRENDS (66%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (62%)

COMPANY: KRAFT NABISCO (85%); EURO RSCG WORLDWIDE INC (84%); KELLOGG CO (84%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); HAVAS SA (56%)

TICKER: K (NYSE) (84%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (58%); HAV (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (85%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (85%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (84%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (84%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



206 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.14 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.19 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.09 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 
 TUESDAY
 Florida Board of Education, $200 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 San Francisco County, $297.3 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 WEDNESDAY
 Putnam County, W.Va., $56.7 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 THURSDAY
 Illinois, $356 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Seattle, $201.3 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Ascension Health Senior Credit Group, Indiana, $670.5 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
 California Educational Facilities Authority, $64.2 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 California, $2 billion of various purpose general obligation bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Channelview, Tex., Independent School District, $50 million of school building bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
 Dallas, $300 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
 Detroit, $250 million of general obligation bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Guilford, N.C., $298.4 million of general obligation public improvement bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
 Jacksonville, Fla., Electric Authority, $59 million of electric system revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Katy, Tex., Independent School District, $68.7 million of tax refinancing bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
 Kentucky Economic Development Authority, $110 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
 Manchester, Mo., $55.1 million of tax increment and transportation revenue refinancing bonds. Stifel, Nicolaus.
 Massachusetts, $538.8 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Michigan Municipal Bond Authority, $240 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
 Mississippi Development Bank, $135.7 million of special obligation Build America bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Anchorage, $100.1 million of debt securities. Siebert Brandford Shank.
 New York City Municipal Water Finance Authority, $400 million of water and sewer system revenue bonds. Jefferies.
 New York State Thruway Authority, $582 million of general highway and bridge trust fund bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
 Philadelphia School District, $350 million of debt securities. Bank of America.
 San Antonio, $375 million of electric and gas systems revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
 University of North Carolina, $149.3 million of system pool revenue bonds. Wells Fargo Securities.
 Washington, D.C., $711.2 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 Ministry Health Care, Wisconsin, $52 million of debt securities. Bank of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SCHOOL BONDS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); ASCENSION HEALTH (56%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (55%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (55%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (56%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010



207 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Pondering Good Faith In Publishing

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
Book publishers have long seen themselves as the gatekeepers of literary culture. But when they're not looking, the truth has a way of being left at the door.
 Last week Henry Holt & Company stopped printing and selling ''The Last Train From Hiroshima,'' about the atomic bombing of Japan, because its author had relied on a fraudulent source for a portion of the book and possibly fabricated others.
 This is not the first time a publisher has been humiliated by an author's unverified work. But this instance has occurred at a time when the publisher's traditional role is under economic and technological stress. 
 With the rise of electronic books, makers of reading devices and online retailers are putting pressure on prices and the traditional book publishing business model. And, as with record labels and newspapers, digital media raises the question of what part the traditional book publisher will play in the future. 
 ''If book publishers are supposed to be the gatekeepers,'' said Kurt Andersen, the novelist and host of ''Studio 360,'' a public radio program, ''tell me exactly what they're closing the gate to.'' 
 In the case of ''The Last Train From Hiroshima,'' the author, Charles Pellegrino, said he had been duped by a source and insisted that other sources the publisher questioned definitely existed. 
 Publishers say that responsibility for errors and fabrications ultimately must lie with the author. ''It would not be humanly possible to fact-check books the way magazine articles can be fact-checked, just because of length,'' said Robert A. Gottlieb, the renowned editor who worked at the publisher Alfred A. Knopf and The New Yorker magazine, which has a celebrated fact-checking department. 
 But in many recent cases publishers did not seem to ask basic questions of authors, accepting their versions on almost blind faith. 
 Most notoriously, there was James Frey, who embellished details in his Oprah Winfrey-anointed memoir of addiction, ''A Million Little Pieces.'' More recently, there was Margaret Seltzer, writing under the pseudonym Margaret B. Jones, who made up a story about being reared by a foster family in gang-ridden South Central Los Angeles; and Herman Rosenblat, a Holocaust survivor who said he originally met his wife as a child while in a Nazi concentration camp, where she threw apples over the fence to him.
 ''There's a hazy line between 'truth' and invention in creative nonfiction, but good writers don't have to make things up,'' Jeffrey Porter, an associate professor of English and nonfiction writing at the University of Iowa, wrote in an e-mail message. In the case of Mr. Pellegrino, whose book claimed to expose a secret accident with the first atomic bomb, Mr. Porter wrote: ''Maybe the idea of a scoop was irresistible. But somebody should have been skeptical.'' 
 Mr. Pellegrino said he had relied on information from a source, Joseph Fuoco, who claimed he was a last-minute substitute as a flight engineer on one of the escort planes for the Enola Gay, the plane that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima. Late last month, scientists, historians and veterans denounced Mr. Fuoco as an impostor who did not ride on the mission. 
 Questions were raised about ''Last Train'' only after it was published and readers complained. The publisher said it would issue corrected editions, removing references to Mr. Fuoco. But then Holt started examining tips it received about the possibility that other people in the book did not exist, and also began looking into a controversy over Mr. Pellegrino's Ph.D., which he refers to prominently on his Web site (charlespellegrino.com) and in his author's biography in the book. 
 Mr. Pellegrino said he had been awarded the doctorate at Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand in the early 1980s and then stripped of it a few years later because of a disagreement with department members over evolutionary theory. ''It got to be a very hot and nasty topic in 1982,'' Mr. Pellegrino said in a telephone interview.
 On Thursday, Pat Walsh, vice chancellor of Victoria University, said that Mr. Pellegrino's claims were ''baseless and defamatory'' and that the university never awarded him a Ph.D.
 Mr. Pellegrino's literary agent, Elaine Markson, and his editor at Holt, John Macrae, both said they had no reason to examine his credentials. 
 ''I never questioned his scientific background because he was working on Titanic research and other research with laboratories,'' Ms. Markson said, referring to Mr. Pellegrino's previous books. 
 Mr. Pellegrino also brought some stardust with his project: he had consulted for the director James Cameron on the movies ''Titanic'' and ''Avatar,'' and Mr. Cameron optioned ''Last Train'' for a film about the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. 
 In a telephone interview Mr. Pellegrino talked repeatedly of his supporters, including Stephen Jay Gould, who died in 2002, but who, according to Mr. Pellegrino, knew that he had been academically persecuted. And although agitated, he seemed to believe he could still find a publisher to help him release a corrected electronic or paperback edition. 
 In a follow-up e-mail message Mr. Pellegrino urged a reporter to call Eric Stover, a former executive director of the science and human rights program of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, to back up his claims. 
 Reached by telephone at the University of California, Berkeley, Mr. Stover said he could not remember Mr. Pellegrino. ''The name clicked, but then I Googled him and looked up his biography and there's a photograph of him,'' Mr. Stover said. ''I don't recognize him.''
 Some of Mr. Pellegrino's detractors say that he had a somewhat controversial publishing reputation. Writing about his ''Ghosts of the Titanic'' for The New York Times Book Review in 2000, Michael Parfit said the book ''flouts most principles of scientific scholarship.''
 But reviewers were impressed with Mr. Pellegrino's most recent book and did not question its facts. Both The Times and The Washington Post gave ''Last Train'' strong reviews.
 ''We all work in good faith here, and we do the best we can,'' said Stephen Rubin, president of Holt. ''People's judgments vary. But this is the exception, hardly the rule.'' 
 Richard Rhodes, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb,'' said that had he been Mr. Pellegrino's editor, ''I would have asked a lot more questions than evidently got asked, since it would be such a radical change in the historical record.'' 
 Mr. Macrae said in one interview that he had made ''100 queries'' and in another that he had ''questioned more than 250 parts of the book,'' including asking to speak to Tsutomu Yamaguchi, a survivor of both the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs who is featured in ''Last Train.''
 ''I was suspicious because he was a so-called double survivor,'' said Mr. Macrae, who added that he had watched a video of Mr. Yamaguchi, who died in January at 93, provided by Mr. Pellegrino. 
 Mr. Macrae said he did not ask Mr. Pellegrino about Mr. Fuoco or the accident with the bomb because Mr. Macrae recalled conversations he had had with friends who were scientists at Los Alamos, who ''told me back in the 1960s that the first bomb was compromised.''
 ''So that didn't throw up a flag,'' Mr. Macrae said. He added that the real reason he was enthusiastic about the book project was, ''I was really interested in the survivors, not how the bomb wasdelivered.'' He added, ''When I checked things out, that's what I checked out most thoroughly.'' 
 Anyway, Mr. Macrae said, ''the difference between fact and fiction is a very fine line.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AN AUTHOR'S DEFENSE: Charles Pellegrino, who wrote ''The Last Train From Hiroshima,'' admits being duped by a source, but says other sources that his publisher has questioned definitely exist.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SARAH SHATZ)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK PUBLISHING (92%); PUBLISHING (91%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); RAIL CROSSINGS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (79%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (79%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (79%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (79%); CREATIVE WRITING (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); RETAILERS (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); FOSTER CARE (60%); INTERNET RETAILING (54%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (52%); PUBLIC RADIO (52%)

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: OPRAH WINFREY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) JAPAN (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



208 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: The State's Budget Boogeyman Stalks the City's Summer Camps

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It took a rainy day and the right job to show Christopher Rivera, then a 16-year-old who lived in a public housing complex on the Lower East Side, that he had something to say, and that when he said it people might actually listen. 
 Two years ago, Christopher was a few weeks into his first job, as a day camp counselor at Public School 64 on Avenue B. Outside, it poured; inside, 16 fifth and sixth graders with no scheduled activity ran around with the kind of free-floating energy that quickly curdles into frenzy. 
 ''Hey everybody, listen up,'' Christopher called out, a line that can sound like a feeble prayer or an inviting command, depending on who delivers it. For Christopher, they quieted down and listened. He then taught them, and eventually the rest of the children at the camp, how to play indoor baseball, which proved hugely popular. Shy, and born with a defect in his right eye that forced him to use protective eyewear, Christopher, now a freshman at Fordham University, went from being the ''kid with goggles'' to the ''indoor baseball guy.'' 
 As first jobs go, camp counselor is close to ideal. What other opportunity lets those with no experience oversee a team -- and a team fully disposed to worship their leader, if that leader seems to care even a little?
 The pay has never been great, but with unemployment among young people the highest it has been since World War II, even a modest paycheck is a winning lottery ticket. Christopher made about $1,000 that summer and again last summer, thanks to the Summer Youth Employment Program, which the city's Department of Youth and Community Development administers. Since the 1960s, the city has provided money for summer jobs for tens of thousands of young people each year, many of them at camps or day care centers.
 Like so many other high-functioning social services that are bearing the brunt of the dysfunction in Albany (and on Wall Street), the summer jobs program is in danger of seeing its state financing disappear. Gov. David A. Paterson's proposed budget eliminates the state's $20 million contribution to the program, leaving about $25 million in city and federal money -- and, officials said, cutting the number of young people served to about 17,000, from last year's record high of 52,000. 
 The Bloomberg administration has experimented with financial incentives to reward young people for strong school work, paying them in cash or providing cellphones for good test scores. How about keeping that old-fashioned model of financial incentives, the one that rewards young people for working? Perhaps the city, which has also cut financing for the program in recent years, could make up some of what is being cut by the state -- paying for camp counselors is a safe investment in young people's futures.
 When reviewing job applicants, Doug Herzog, the president of the MTV Networks Entertainment Group, said he would light up if one had experience as a camp counselor. ''College is great; everyone who has the opportunity should go to college, but I learned everything I needed to know at camp.'' 
 Working as a counselor at Camp Scatico in the Upper Hudson Valley, he said he realized early on that ''you can force people to do things, or tell people to do things, but if you're going to be successful, you've got to get them to do things and feel good about it.'' 
 Seth Godin, an entrepreneur and author of the best-selling book ''Linchpin,'' considers his work as a counselor at Camp Arowhon in Ontario a major influence on his life and career. ''People who have been transformed by summer camp never forget how it felt to have responsibility without a rule book,'' he said. ''They seek to achieve that again in their professional life -- and for an underprivileged kid, it's doubly important, because you're not necessarily surrounded by role models who've had experience of leading with responsibility without being told precisely what to do. If a transformation's going to happen, it's going to happen in an environment like that.''
 When government pays for young people to work as counselors or child care providers, it's a bargain, a win-win-win: good for the young people like Christopher who get transformed into the ''indoor baseball guy;'' good for the low-income children who learn to love indoor baseball; and good for their parents, who get affordable, quality child care.
 Christopher said his camp experience led to his two current jobs, as an usher at the family-friendly New Victory Theater, and as a counselor at a teen center run by the Educational Alliance. Starting with that rainy day at P.S. 64, he said, ''I've learned to get out of that shell and show the people the talents I have.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); BASEBALL (73%); LOTTERIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



209 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: In the Absence of Health Care Reform

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''If Reform Fails'' (editorial, March 7):
 If the founders of this nation had to consider health care, they might well have included it in the Bill of Rights, the soundness of its people being so essential to this country's well-being, its economy and its future. 
 Let us start with this premise in renewed health care reform: (1) proper care, fully available to all regardless of pre-existing condition, must be as well guaranteed as are the freedoms of speech and religion; (2) costs must be regulated by government so as to derail the profit-greed factor; (3) with Provision 2 in effect, private companies, not the government, would be best at providing insurance in a country where government growth and decision-making are of great concern. 
 Unless this nation, conceived and bathed in the rights of humankind, sees health care as a given right, soaring medical costs will make us insolvent and impotent.
 Arthur H. Gunther Blauvelt, N.Y., March 7, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial speculates about what should happen next if the current health reform effort fails, as it well might. I suggest that Congress then pass legislation forbidding denial of coverage based on health status, which would make adverse selection worse. 
 In the absence of comprehensive reform, we should hasten the ''death spiral'' of private health insurance and force the industry to acknowledge that it makes profits by denying coverage to the sick.
 Jim Klumpner Silver Spring, Md., March 7, 2010
 The writer is a former Democratic chief economist for the House and Senate Budget Committees.
 To the Editor: 
 Americans who respond ''but I like my insurance'' when contemplating the proposed health care reform bill should recognize that their present employer-provided insurance will almost certainly not be there for them in the event of a long-term serious illness. 
 Most employer policies require that those covered be able to work. If an accident, stroke, cancer treatment or other long-term event keeps the employee from showing up at work, even for such a relatively short period of time as 60 or 90 days (90 days in the case of my employer-provided policy), the coverage is terminated, and the employee placed on long-term disability and left with Cobra. If the employee cannot pay Cobra, or Cobra runs out -- that's it. No insurance for either the employee or his or her family.
 I learned this hard truth when one of my co-workers learned she had late-term colon cancer. She has insurance right now, six months later, only because my employer is subsidizing her Cobra payments.
 Americans are living in a fantasy world when they think, ''I'm working; I have insurance; I'm safe.'' You are safe only because you are well. Those medical bankruptcies filed by people ''who thought they had insurance'' are not being filed by individuals who exceeded policy maximums, or were fired or laid off after becoming ill. They are being filed by people who incurred no hardship other than one -- they got sick.
 Rita C. Tobin Chappaqua, N.Y., March 7, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Much of the health care debate implies that people who receive benefits through their jobs either do not pay for their health insurance or pay only small premiums. Actually, employers have specific formulas for how much they can pay per employee for salary and benefits combined. The more they pay for an employee's health insurance, the less they can allocate to salary. 
 Given the cost of health insurance, that means that individuals pay many thousands of dollars for the ''free'' health insurance they receive from their employers. This amount rivals the tax bill that health reform opponents rail about, and it's rising much faster than taxes.
 David Manning Bronx, March 7, 2010
 To the Editor: 
 Not only would failure to pass health reform be a policy disaster for the American public and business, but it would also be a political disaster for the Democratic Party and its incumbents. 
 Notwithstanding Republican advice to the Democrats that they would have to run away from this bill, as soon as the bill was officially dead, the Republicans would repeatedly pound every Democrat with the mantra that Democrats can't get anything done. 
 Calling the Republicans the Party of No would not inoculate Democrats to the charge of being spineless, if everyone sees them cave on health reform.
 John McGloin Staten Island, March 7, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''President Calls for Final Vote on Health Bill'' (front page, March 4): 
 Health care is a basic right. Our current system is convoluted and unethical and should go the way of gladiator games. 
 We can spar and battle in the free market in many arenas, but when we get sick we should all have care -- not just the lawyers, bankers, politicians and others who can afford it.
 Those who disagree should consider what they would do if they or their loved ones got sick and somehow couldn't find a way to pay for care. 
 We like the free market, but we shouldn't let people die in the street -- not in this country. At least, that's how I think it ought to be. 
 I say we can afford to take a small, overdue step in the direction of decency. Count me with President Obama and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi.
 Lucius Schoenbaum Baton Rouge, La., March 4, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JORDAN AWAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (73%); WRITERS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (69%); CANCER (66%); COLORECTAL CANCER (65%); DISABLED PERSONS (61%); ONCOLOGY (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



210 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; PERSONAL HEALTH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: To Keep Moving, Look Beyond the Physical

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
I have long known (though I've yet to give up trying) that it is almost impossible to motivate smokers to quit for good by regaling them with the health hazards of tobacco. And now I've been told by readers of last week's column, ''Even More Reasons to Get a Move On,'' that repeated sermons on the health benefits of physical activity may get some folks started but are unlikely to keep them at it. 
 And it's true that for many people, future health benefits may just be too abstract and speculative to overcome inertia and take up walking, running, swimming, cycling or working out in the gym. So here is a little secret. What really keeps us devoted exercisers going, even in the face of myriad obstacles, is much more tangible. 
 Vicki Van Horn, 62, of Rio Rancho, N.M., sent an e-mail message in response to my column: ''There are other ancillary benefits, in addition to the obvious health benefits, to regular exercise. My husband (Thomas McAlister), at 77, visits the gym almost daily, where he has a huge coterie of gym buddies (many of whom also retired), with whom he shares books, magazines and conversation. I still work full time but make it to the gym about five times a week; usually it is a gym 'date' with him. We stride along on treadmills next to each other and talk about the day's events while we watch 'Animal Planet'!''
 Michelle Segar, a motivational psychologist at the University of Michigan, said in an interview that what Ms. Van Horn described was no ''ancillary'' benefit. ''Rather,'' Dr. Segar said, ''these are the core reasons that keep people going.
 ''My research suggests that we have misbranded health behaviors such as exercise,'' she continued. ''The 'health' and 'weight-loss' brand of exercise doesn't create desire in people to exercise on a daily basis. It makes the behaviors feel like a chore and a 'should,' which undercuts our desire to do them.''
 Dr. Segar likened this approach to telling young children, ''Eat your vegetables; they're good for you,'' which almost never accomplishes the desired goal. ''We've based our promotion of exercise on a medical and logical model,'' she said. ''And people don't necessarily behave in a logical manner.
 ''We've made exercise feel like a chore to most people, not like a gift we give ourselves.''
 Instead, she suggested borrowing the motivational approach used by commercial marketers, ''an emotional hook that creates positive, meaningful expectations of how exercise can enhance people's lives, a way to feel better.''
 She continued, ''Exercise is such a wonder drug -- there's got to be something exercise can do to improve the lives of virtually everyone.''
 How Exercise Improved My Life
 I couldn't agree more. So many nonhealth benefits keep me exercising every day that I'm sure my life would be greatly diminished without them.
 Shortly after 6 the other morning, a stunning full moon hugging the horizon enhanced our walk around our local park, and I remarked, ''Look what the stay-a-beds are missing.'' Soon after came a picture-postcard scene of two Siberian huskies trotting through the snow-covered woods. The week before, we were treated to glorious snow-laden trees as we trudged through the falling snow.
 Note that I said ''we.'' Two to five of us walk for an hour every morning. We chat about our days, share our thoughts and problems, seek and offer advice, bolster sagging spirits, provide logistical support, alert one another to coming cultural events, discuss the news, books, articles and what-have-you. No matter how awful I may feel when I get up in the morning, I always feel better after that walk. And so I always do it, come rain, shine or blizzard.
 The members of this walking group, which I joined (admittedly reluctantly) about 15 years ago, have become more than dear friends. They are a sounding board for any and all problems, providing both emotional and practical support when needed. They have introduced me to wonderful activities -- museum and gallery shows, concerts and operas, movies and books -- I might have otherwise missed. 
 One member of the group has become a frequent traveling companion -- someone far easier to travel with than my husband (she doesn't snore or tell me I'm going the wrong way). We've gone wine tasting in the Napa Valley, hiking in Arizona, sightseeing in Costa Rica, snorkeling in the Galapagos, exploring the culture of Tasmania. 
 Another walker invited me to join her knitting group, where I rediscovered a long-abandoned productive activity and learned how to crochet. I've since made gifts for every important person in my life and every new baby.
 Then there are the women in the locker room at the YMCA where I swim nearly every morning after the walk. Some I know only by first name. All have been there for me when a family crisis struck, offering to make meals, house visitors, run errands, go grocery shopping, pick up my grandsons from school, do whatever I can farm out to others to ease my burden. (Alas, no one else can write my column!)
 For years now, I've been struck by the camaraderie among the elderly women, most of them widows, whose water aerobics class follows the morning lap-swim. Few knew one another before they joined this activity. Now they lunch together almost every month, celebrate birthdays together, check on one another if someone fails to attend a session or two, even raise money for a beloved staff member who lost her job in the recession.
 A highly productive gym aficionado I work with told me how much the guys at the gym mean to him, giving him the opportunity to talk about events, politics, sports and other topics of mutual interest that he would otherwise have no chance to squeeze into his very busy life. ''I don't even know their last names, but I count them all as my friends and an important asset in my life,'' he said. 
 Other Motivators
 One reader of last week's column wrote that at age 61 she was surprised to discover the pleasure to be gleaned from adding an at-home activity to her already active life. She conceded that she bought Wii Fit Plus to help her less active 68-year-old husband ''get up and moving'' to improve his health. What they both discovered is that this TV toy is quite addictive and has helped both of them enjoy daily activity without having to leave the house in bad weather. In addition to losing weight, they have more energy and sleep like logs.
 The latter is one of the benefits Dr. Segar offers through the program she developed called Essential Steps. Exercise, she said, can help people sleep better and reduce stress, as well as have a good time with a friend. 
 ''Almost anything can get people to start exercising,'' she said. ''The challenge is to get them hooked on it so that they keep going. We need to rebrand exercise as something we can enjoy, something that really feels good to do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC RISBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (90%); SMOKING CESSATION (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); CHILDREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



211 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Unions to Rally to Build Towers at Ground Zero

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The city's construction unions plan to hold a lunchtime rally at ground zero on Tuesday in an effort to break the deadlock between the Port Authority and the developer Larry A. Silverstein over building speculative office space on the 16-acre site.
 Union officials say they are gathering several thousand carpenters, iron workers and laborers, as well as unemployed union members, to stress that they are ready to build two more office towers at the former World Trade Center, as Mr. Silverstein wants to do. 
 ''We're not taking sides or assigning blame,'' said Gary LaBarbera, president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, a labor umbrella group. ''We're making a public statement on behalf of the building trades that we're ready to build them.''
 But in the deeply politicized world of ground zero, things are not always what they seem. One trade union official, who insisted on anonymity because he was not authorized to speak on behalf of the council, said Mr. Silverstein urged them to hold the rally to put pressure on the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
 The rally is one more point of contention in the slugging match between the authority and Mr. Silverstein, who is backed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Both sides are working against a looming deadline while they debate how much government should invest in private development, especially at a time when the real estate market is weak. 
 The Port Authority is building 1 World Trade Center, formerly called the Freedom Tower; a transit center; a memorial; and streets and utilities. Mr. Silverstein, who held the lease on the twin towers when they were destroyed on Sept. 11, 2001, has the right to build three other office towers at ground zero. Unable to secure financing or corporate tenants, Mr. Silverstein wants the Port Authority to finance the construction of at least two of the three towers, totaling 4.8 million square feet, the equivalent of two Empire State Buildings. And the some of the construction union officials support him.
 ''We have a good relationship with Larry, who's a union builder,'' the union official said. But, ''when you have 25 to 30 percent unemployment you don't need much prodding'' to have a rally.
 Still, Mr. Silverstein denied doing any of the ''prodding.''
 ''It's hardly news that we support accelerating the rebuilding of the World Trade Center site, which would create thousands of union construction jobs,'' said Bud Perrone, a spokesman for Mr. Silverstein. ''While we're cooperating with the sponsor of this rally, the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, the event was called for, belongs to and will be attended by the men and women of the construction unions.''
 Last week, the General Contractors Association, whose members work on the Port Authority's airport, road and bridge projects, sided with the authority, warning that the city had to rebuild the trade center ''in a way that does not bankrupt the Port Authority and curtail critically needed investment in the port's transportation infrastructure.'' The authority, it noted, had already cut $5 billion from its 10-year capital program. 
 In a proposal last week, the authority offered to help Mr. Silverstein with one of the three tower buildings. If he is able to secure commercial tenants for one-fifth of the second tower over the next two years, then the authority would help with the second, as long as the city and the state also contributed to the effort and Mr. Silverstein put $300 million of his own money into the project. If he cannot get an anchor tenant, the authority proposed that Mr. Silverstein be allowed to build a retail complex, over which the second tower could be built later on. But Mr. Silverstein and the city have shown no enthusiasm for the proposal. 
 An arbitration panel in January refused to take Mr. Silverstein's side in the dispute and gave both sides until Friday to come up with a solution or risk the panel imposing its own.
 At this point, all sides agree that the third tower would be delayed, possibly for a decade. Some authority executives say that this opens the possibility that the third site could be used for a park, a cultural institution, or even a smaller building that combines office space and apartments or a hotel, instead of a giant office tower that may no longer be suitable for downtown.
 The authority, which is now building the first skyscraper at ground zero at a cost of $3 billion, is not eager to support towers without tenants, especially when the vacancy rate is expected to grow over the coming years. The Regional Plan Association, a private planning group, said that it favored efforts to restore commercial space on the site, but that it also believed ''that it should be the responsibility of the private sector to absorb the risks of new office space construction.''
 Today, the commercial vacancy rate downtown is about 11 percent, but rents are continuing to fall on the expectation that more vacant space will come on the market as Goldman Sachs relocates and A.I.G. and Merrill Lynch shrink. In a recent report, Jones Lang LaSalle, a real estate broker, called the situation ''the calm before the storm.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



212 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: In Jury Selection for Hate Crime, a Struggle to Find Tolerance

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
RIVERHEAD, N.Y. -- Over the last several days, Justice Robert W. Doyle has heard the typical excuses from potential jurors. One woman mentioned her husband's medical problems. Another woman complained about her back.
 But other prospective jurors, seeking to be excused, have brought up larger issues in the judge's Long Island courtroom. 
 A young woman said that her father, a mechanic, has a ''huge opinion about illegal immigration,'' and that his views on the subject have ''become my opinions as well.'' A man told Justice Doyle that his house was broken into by illegal immigrants while he was sleeping, a fact that he said would affect his ability to be fair and impartial. 
 And there were those who took a different view, like the bank worker who said that because her husband is of Mexican and Italian descent, she might have difficulty being fair. And the woman who explained that most of the clients in her job are illegal Latino immigrants. 
 ''I don't think that because of that they should be killed,'' she told Justice Doyle. 
 The prospective jurors were being asked to sit in judgment in the case involving the killing of Marcelo Lucero, a 37-year-old Ecuadorean immigrant stabbed to death in November 2008 in Patchogue, more than an hour's drive from Manhattan. 
 Mr. Lucero was attacked by seven teenagers who, the police said, had made a sport out of assaulting Hispanic men, calling it ''beaner hopping.'' Mr. Lucero's death prompted widespread outrage and exposed racial tensions in Patchogue, where a number of Latinos came forward after the attack to describe muggings and assaults that had them living in fear. 
 Now, as Jeffrey Conroy, 19, becomes the first defendant to go on trial in the case, jury selection has proven difficult, in part because of the views on Latino immigration held by some prospective jurors in Suffolk County. 
 Last week, after three days of jury selection, about 130 men and women were questioned by the judge, the prosecutor and Mr. Conroy's defense lawyer here in State Supreme Court. Only five were selected; the rest were excused. On Monday, jury selection continued as another roughly 130 were brought in, and more than a dozen were excused by the end of the day. 
 Once the jury is seated, Mr. Conroy's defense may be complicated by the fact that four of the seven teenagers have pleaded guilty and may testify against him. But something larger may be at play: the treatment of immigrants in Suffolk County and the allegations that have been raised that some residents there are biased against them.
 At times, the jury selection had the feel of a call-in show on talk radio, as men and women sounded off on illegal immigration, hate crimes, their ethnic background and the American dream. Most of the comments made by potential jurors came in response to questions asked by Justice Doyle in a third-floor courtroom of the criminal courthouse in Riverhead, as Mr. Conroy sat motionless in a dark suit at a table next to his lawyer. 
 Mr. Conroy is accused of second-degree murder as a hate crime, among other charges, in Mr. Lucero's death, as well as attempted assault as a hate crime in episodes involving other Hispanic men. He has pleaded not guilty. The other two defendants have pleaded not guilty to a hate crime and other charges and are awaiting trial. 
 Justice Doyle has said that some of the witnesses who will testify in the trial are illegal immigrants, and the potential witnesses he has named in court include three Hispanic men whom prosecutors say some or all of the young men also attempted to attack. Mr. Lucero, who worked at a dry cleaning store, had lived in the United States for 16 years at the time he was stabbed.
 Several potential jurors were let go because they said they had strong views on illegal immigration and would be unable to be fair and impartial. Others were excused because they said they had Hispanic family members, or were Hispanic themselves, and would side with the victim and his family. And still others said they had followed the case in the news, and had already formed an opinion about Mr. Conroy's guilt or innocence.
 On Monday, a Riverhead man in his early 20s told the judge that he grew up in a racist environment in Pennsylvania and felt that he could not be fair. Another man said that a neighbor has been verbally abusing his son's family for several years because his daughter-in-law is Puerto Rican and Peruvian. Justice Doyle asked him if this would affect his ability to be fair.
 ''It could,'' said the man, who declined to elaborate after being excused.
 Those who raised illegal immigration as a factor in their ability to serve chose their words carefully, so as not to condone the crimes for which Mr. Conroy stands accused. 
 One man, a school bus driver, said his Teamsters union had taken a stand on what he described as a lack of a federal immigration policy, and because some witnesses might be illegal immigrants, this would be a problem for him. Before he was released, the man said that what he has and what he has earned was gained legally, not illegally. ''I'm the old-fashioned way,'' he told Justice Doyle.
 The majority of potential jurors, including the school bus driver, have been white men and women of all ages. Only a handful have been Hispanic, black or Asian. 
 The economic and social impact that Latino immigration and Hispanic day laborers have had on communities in Suffolk County has long been a polarizing issue. A report released following the death of Mr. Lucero by the Southern Poverty Law Center, an organization that monitors hate groups, found that an environment of racial intolerance fueled dozens of attacks on Latinos in the county in the past decade. 
 ''It is a little bit of a glimpse into the soul of a community,'' Bruce Barket, a Long Island defense lawyer and a former Nassau County prosecutor, said of the comments being made in this case so far. ''These kinds of issues and these kinds of tensions are always present in the courtroom. Race is probably the most dominant unspoken factor in almost every trial.''
 Advocates for immigrants and the brother of Mr. Lucero criticized those who said their feelings on illegal immigration prevented them from being impartial. ''We're not talking about any issues about immigration,'' Mr. Lucero's brother, Joselo Lucero, 35, said in an interview. ''We're talking about justice and human rights. This is totally different.''
 Several more days of jury selection are expected. Mr. Conroy's lawyer, William Keahon, said he was not concerned about how long it was taking to select a jury. ''It's going to take us a couple days longer than unusual, but there's no doubt that the result will be a fair and impartial jury to both sides,'' he said.
 There were times during the jury selection process when illegal immigration did not seem to be such a daunting issue. Last week, Megan O'Donnell, an assistant district attorney, asked prospective jurors sitting in the jury box if the victim's immigration status mattered to them, and all assured her that it did not matter. 
 Carla Panetta, 60, a Patchogue mother of four and grandmother of six, was among a large group of prospective jurors that Justice Doyle excused at the end of the day on Thursday. Outside the courthouse, she said that illegal immigration had no bearing on the case, and that even though her 14-year-old grandson is Hispanic, she would have had no problem being objective. She criticized those prospective jurors who said they could not be fair because of their views on illegal immigration.
 ''I don't care whether the man was legal, illegal, white, black, purple or green,'' she said outside the courthouse. ''There was a murder. It almost seemed like the poor victim was the one going on trial.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marcelo Lucero died in 2008.
 The spot where Mr. Lucero was stabbed to death on Long Island.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GORDON M. GRANT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); JURY DUTY (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); HATE CRIME (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); LAWYERS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); HOMICIDE (71%); DEATHS (65%); ETHNICITY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



213 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Early On, Cab Sharing Has Its Skeptics on Upper East Side

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Wondering why the city's cab-sharing experiment fizzled last week? A few Upper East Side residents offered a theory: location, location, location.
 The Taxi and Limousine Commission -- which, we should mention, is very confident that interest in the program will pick up -- chose three locations in Manhattan to install the specialized taxi stands, which allow up to four passengers to share a cab to Midtown at $3 or $4 a head.
 One stand is at the southwest corner of East 72nd Street and Third Avenue, a busy intersection of co-ops and boutiques described by officials as one of the most popular spots in the city for morning taxi hails. Off the Rails spoke with a few longtime denizens of the neighborhood, and the verdict seemed clear: cab sharing may be a tough sell. 
 ''People see a cab on the street, raise a hand, and grab it; they don't want to wait in line,'' said Luis Sepulveda, a doorman at a nearby high-rise apartment building. The Upper East Side, he said, is a far cry from his native Colombia, where sharing cabs is common. There, he said, ''It's mostly regular folk. They think it's safer than a bus.''
 ''People are very impatient around here,'' said Paul Sigenlaub, whose antiques shop, Evergreen, has been based at the intersection for more than 20 years. Mr. Sigenlaub, nattily dressed in designer glasses and a zip-up sweater, had wandered outside last Wednesday to examine the new stand, which was deserted.
 ''People want instant gratification; they want everything immediately,'' Mr. Sigenlaub said, noting that queuing up for a morning cab was not exactly in the DNA of the area's residents. (He lives there, too.) And, he added, ''Around here, most people can afford the ride.''
 Ironically, the practice of cab sharing originated on the Upper East Side, where a $6 route to Wall Street has existed for decades at East 79th Street and York Avenue. That system grew out of frustration among Yorkville residents who had to walk several avenues to reach the nearest subway.
 But the Third Avenue stand is fairly close to the No. 6 train stop at East 68th Street. And although it sits on the unfashionable side of Park Avenue, Third Avenue has less of a neighborhood feel than the close-knit Yorkville crowd.
 ''Do you really want a stranger with you in the cab?'' asked Fernando Munoz, a doorman on East 72nd Street who described a mixed reaction to the program among the tenants in his building. ''What happens when there's an argument, or someone is talking on a phone?''
 Still, everyone agreed that $4 to Grand Central Terminal is a pretty great deal, and the eventual success of the program may just be a matter of word-of-mouth.
 ''People probably aren't aware of it yet,'' said Aishah Ismail, a cabby who was munching on catfish in her car the other day. The discount, Ms. Ismail said, may be too good to pass up. ''People who hold a lot of money, they spend less,'' she said happily.
 Jersey Oys
 For those New Yorkers dreading the onslaught of subway and bus service cuts, take heart: at least you're not in Jersey.
 Last week, New Jersey Transit announced a plan to raise bus and train fares by a whopping 25 percent. Off-peak discounts would be eliminated, and some trains would run less frequently, although discounted monthly passes would remain.
 The fare proposal, which would take effect on May 1 and would have to be approved the agency's board, comes after New Jersey's new governor, Christopher J. Christie, cut state subsidies for mass transit. The agency is facing a $300 million budget shortfall -- no small sum, although close readers of Off the Rails will note that the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's budget gap is more than twice that amount.
 One-way rail tickets would cost up to $16.50 under the plan; they currently top out at $13.25. In a press release, New Jersey Transit noted that after adjusting for inflation, its fares will still be 3 percent lower than they were in 1991. ''We recognize that any increase is a burden for our customers, particularly during a recession,'' said James Weinstein, the agency's executive director.
 Bon Voyage!
 Off the Rails is heading overseas for a week, where state-financed high-speed rail and actual working subway countdown clocks await. We will return with a full report on our (hopefully!) smooth journey on March 22 to Kennedy Airport, recognizing that its longest runway is closed. Happy Trails.
 Our transit reporter, Michael M. Grynbaum, advises you on the latest chatter from the city's roads and rails. Check back first thing every Monday morning. Got a tip? He can be reached at OfftheRails@nytimes.com
 This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cab sharing started at this stand at 79th Street and York Avenue, where the nearest subway stop is four avenues away.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (50%)

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



214 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Going Global, Stateside

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
Training to communicate across cultures has long been part of the preparation for executives moving overseas to work. But now, the training is increasingly for employees who may never leave the country, yet will work closely with companies and people around the world.
 ''Whether a multinational or a start-up business out of a garage, everybody is global these days,'' said Dean Foster, president of Dean Foster Associates, an intercultural consultancy in New York. ''In today's economy, there is no room for failure. Companies have to understand the culture they are working in from Day 1.'' 
 Mr. Foster recounted how an American businessman recently gave four antique clocks wrapped in white paper to a prospective client in China. What the man did not realize, he said, was that the words in Mandarin for clock and the number four are similar to the word for death, and white is a funeral color in many Asian countries. ''The symbolism was so powerful,'' Mr. Foster said, that the man lost the deal. 
 Cross-cultural training has steadily grown since its start about 35 years ago when large numbers of Americans returned from the Peace Corps with increased awareness of cultural differences and a new understanding of the importance of intercultural communication.
 The military and foreign service have a tradition of preparing personnel and their families, but corporations ''are really the newcomers,'' said Anne P. Copeland, executive director of the Interchange Institute, a research and consulting organization in Brookline, Mass. 
 Jill Kristal, a psychologist in Larchmont, N.Y., said inadequate preparation ''puts undue stress on the family.'' She saw so much need when she was an expatriate in London in the 1990s that she began incorporating cross-cultural training into her practice. She also started a company, Transitional Learning Curves, which creates products -- interactive books, calendars and card games -- to help families communicate during their time abroad. ''Very often stuff goes unspoken. That's when problems begin,'' Dr. Kristal said. 
 The adjustment when Americans move to other Western countries may be the most challenging because people do not anticipate differences and there is often less preparation, said Geoffrey W. Latta, executive vice president of ORC Worldwide, a human resources consulting firm. 
 Sometimes smaller companies, new to the global workplace, are unaware that training exists or how it can help. And when companies do offer the training, employees, particularly business travelers who may have worked or lived internationally before, often do not feel they need it, Mr. Latta said. 
 On a recent afternoon, a group of American employees of Hollister Inc., a medical device company, prepared for a business trip to Japan. In a five-hour session that included a traditional Japanese meal, a trainer from Dean Foster Associates briefed them on cultural dining etiquette, business customs, socializing and developing a ''global mind-set'' when working with colleagues abroad and after returning home. 
 Mary Lucas, who oversees global human resources for the health benefits company Aetna, said teams at service centers in Ireland and Dubai had similar training that helped identify major differences, like a sense of urgency, that were impeding cooperation between the two centers. Supervisors in Ireland would ask staff members in Dubai to pay claims, but unless directions were explicitly prioritized, claims were not necessarily paid right away, Ms. Lucas said. Training ''immediately raised awareness, which helped the teams be much more successful,'' she said. 
 Mr. Foster recently introduced a series of online tools for employees who might not have time for formal cross-cultural training. ''Culture Guides-to-Go'' offer strategies for running successful meetings, conducting negotiations or brushing up on dining protocol in more than 120 countries. 
 Andrew P. Walker, vice president of global mobility for Thomson Reuters, said online training was easier, quicker and cheaper than in-person training. Thomson Reuters uses CultureWizard, a Web-based tool created by the company RW 3 , for its employees in 93 countries for what he said was ''a fraction of the cost'' of formal training. 
 Mr. Walker said he also used it himself. ''Without the course, I think I would have made a lot of mistakes,'' said Mr. Walker, who moved back to the United States in July after five years in London. He said his low-key, light-hearted manner was fine on business trips, but when he was working there full time, ''I wouldn't be able to get away with it forever.'' He said the program helped speed the transition.
 Michael S. Schell, chief executive of RW 3, recounted how a mining and exploration company in Britain contacted his firm because the mining company was unsuccessful in winning business from an American company. ''During the training, we pointed out that the proposal turned off the Americans,'' Mr. Schell said, because it began with 10 pages detailing all the risks of the venture and how much failure would cost.
 Americans tend to view failure as a learning experience that inspires creativity, Mr. Schell said, so the American company considered the proposal negative and unenthusiastic. The British tend to be risk-averse culturally, he said, and perceived the Americans as unrealistic. When the British company redid the proposal with a positive spin, they got the deal the next day, he said. 
 ''Differences got overlooked because we speak English,'' Mr. Schell said. ''They look like us, wear the same jeans and use the same cellphones. 
 ''The assumption is that we're all the same, but we're not all the same.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marshall Hewitt, a consultant with Dean Foster Associates, gives employees of Hollister Inc. lessons in Japanese dining etiquette. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); HUMAN RESOURCES (79%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); STARTUPS (72%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); MEDICAL DEVICES (50%)

COMPANY: HOLLISTER INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



215 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Hesitation on Wall Street Leaves Shares Flat

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Lacking a clear consensus about the strength of the recovery, Wall Street fell into a seesaw pattern on Monday. 
 The major indexes ended mixed as traders saw promise in a round of corporate deals but were concerned that a push by President Obama to overhaul the health care system would hurt profits for insurance companies. 
 But analysts said the less visible cause of Monday's uncertainty was ambiguity about the strength of the recovery. A better-than-expected report on the jobs market helped spur a rally on Friday, but much of that enthusiasm had dissipated by Monday as investors awaited further signs that the recovery was intact. 
 ''The constant question is, 'What is the next shoe to fall?' '' said Uri D. Landesman, head of global growth at ING. ''The possibility every morning of bad news from somewhere is still very high, and that's going to restrict any irrational exuberance.''
 Trading has been light recently, raising concern that the market's movements do not reflect prevailing views of the economy's health.
 On Monday, the major indexes spent most of the day wandering, but drifted downward slightly after the president stepped up his criticism of insurers. Mr. Obama told a crowd of students in Pennsylvania that ''since there's so little competition in the insurance industry, they're O.K. with people being priced out of health insurance because they'll still make more by raising premiums on the customers they have.''
 In response, Wellpoint, the insurance giant, fell 0.47 percent. Health Net and UnitedHealth Group were down nearly 2 percent, while HealthSpring, a Medicare provider, declined 1.6 percent. The drug maker Pfizer fell 0.74 percent, and Merck was down 0.37 percent.
 ''The whole health care industry is waiting for something to be finished,'' said Dan A. Faretta, senior market strategist for LaSalle Futures Group. ''No market really likes change initially.''
 The concerns in health care were offset somewhat by signs that merger and acquisition activity was picking up.
 The American International Group, the insurance giant, completed a $15.5 billion deal to sell a major insurance unit to MetLife. It was the second unit that A.I.G. had sold in recent weeks, and its shares rose 3.63 percent.
 Arrow Energy of Australia, a producer of natural gas, said it had received a takeover offer of about $3 billion from a company owned by Royal Dutch Shell and PetroChina, the state-run gas and oil giant.
 Taken together, the deals rekindled hopes that businesses were gaining confidence even in the face of a sputtering recovery.
 ''That tells investors that companies with decent balance sheets think it's time to expand,'' Mr. Landesman said.
 Energy shares declined as oil remained below $82 a barrel. Shares of telecommunications companies surged, led by Cisco, which rose 3.65 percent as expectations rose ahead of an expected product announcement.
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 0.13 percent, or 13.68 points, at 10,552.52. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.02 percent, or 0.20 points, to 1,138.50. The Nasdaq rose 0.25 percent, or 5.86 points, to 2,332.21. 
 It was a soft opening to what is likely to be a quiet week for trading. Economic data is light, and the flurry of fourth-quarter results from companies has largely dissipated.
 With no clear guidance on the economy, analysts say they believe shares will spend much of the week in a holding pattern. 
 Investors said the employment data released Friday -- the unemployment rate held steady at 9.7 percent in February, and job losses totaled 36,000 -- helped quell fears of a double-dip recession.
 ''There is a sense of sustainability to this economic recovery that we think is going to accelerate as we move into the second quarter,'' said Philip J. Orlando, chief equity strategist at Federated Investors.
 Still, he added, ''there's a lot of bearishness.''
 Interest rates rose. The Treasury's 10-year note fell 10/32, to 99 7/32, and the yield rose to 3.72 percent, from 3.68 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg)
 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (86%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); MERGERS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); MEDICARE (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (63%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (60%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); ARROW ENERGY LTD (62%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (61%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (58%); WELLPOINT INC (54%); PETROCHINA CO LTD (51%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (84%); PFEB (BRU) (84%); PFE (NYSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); RDSA (LSE) (61%); RDSA (AMS) (61%); RDS.B (NYSE) (61%); RDS.A (NYSE) (61%); UNH (NYSE) (58%); WLP (NYSE) (54%); PTR (NYSE) (51%); K3OD (SGX) (51%); 0857 (HKSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (62%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (61%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



216 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: State Insurance Experts See Flaw in Obama's Plan to Curb Health Premiums

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At the heart of President Obama's drive to rein in health costs is a proposal for federal review and regulation of health insurance premiums, with a new agency empowered to block excessive rate increases. 
 State officials are leery of the proposal, which raises a host of questions: How would Congress define ''excessive''? How would the new federal power relate to state insurance regulation? 
 The proposal has great political appeal. But experts see a serious potential problem: Federal officials will focus on holding down premiums while state officials focus on the solvency of insurers, the ultimate consumer protection. 
 Economists say that holding down premiums does not necessarily hold down the cost of care, which reflects the prices charged by doctors and hospitals and the volume of services.
 State officials worry that they would be left to police the solvency of health insurance companies while federal officials pressured insurers to reduce premiums, as Mr. Obama has done in recent days.
 ''You can't separate the underlying solvency of companies from the rates they charge,'' said Sean Dilweg, the insurance commissioner in Wisconsin. ''The federal proposal would be a huge pre-emption of decisions that states have made over their history.''
 Mary Beth Senkewicz, a deputy insurance commissioner in Florida, said, ''If you divorce rate-setting from financial oversight, that's a fundamental flaw.''
 ''Premiums must be reasonable in relation to the benefits,'' Ms. Senkewicz said. ''That becomes a fairly complex analysis.''
 Insurance commissioners said they fully supported efforts to expand coverage and rein in health costs. But they said it would be risky to hold down premiums before costs were under control. And they do not expect the federal legislation to drive down costs anytime soon.
 Sandy Praeger of Kansas, one of several insurance commissioners who met with Mr. Obama at the White House last week, said: ''From a consumer protection standpoint, the most important thing we do is ensure the solvency of companies. We would strenuously resist not having the ability to approve rates or having the commissioners' oversight of rates overturned.''
 ''You are not necessarily helping the consumer if you keep rates artificially low,'' Ms. Praeger said. ''What's worse for the consumer: having a premium increase or having to pay the full amount of a medical expense because the company is out of business?''
 Mr. Obama has cited his proposal for a Health Insurance Rate Authority as one of the most significant elements of his plan to remake the nation's health care system.
 Representative Jan Schakowsky, Democrat of Illinois, said that in a meeting with liberal Democrats last week, Mr. Obama ''focused in particular on the new provision that would allow the Department of Health and Human Services to block exorbitant premium increases.''
 As an example, Mr. Obama has pointed to a request by Anthem Blue Cross to increase premiums for individual policyholders in California by an average of 25 percent, with some rates going up as much as 39 percent.
 Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, called Monday on five big insurers to provide detailed public justifications for their latest premium increases. 
 ''If insurance companies are going to raise rates, the least they can do is tell us why,'' said Ms. Sebelius, who has called their profits ''wildly excessive.''
 The president's proposal is modeled on a bill introduced by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, which would give the health secretary the authority to deny or modify premium increases that she found unreasonable.
 ''We are the only industrialized nation that relies heavily on a for-profit medical insurance industry to provide basic health care,'' Mrs. Feinstein said. ''I believe, fundamentally, that all medical insurance should be not-for-profit.''
 In a recent report to Congress, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners said, ''Most states require insurers in the individual market to obtain prior approval of proposed rate increases before putting them into effect.'' 
 At least 27 states have ''prior approval'' requirements. In 12 other states, rates must be filed with regulators before their use, and regulators often have the authority to block increases. In other states, insurers must inform state officials of rate increases or file their rates along with standard contract forms.
 Sara Rosenbaum, a professor of health law and policy at George Washington University, said federal regulation of insurance rates was overdue.
 ''The current system is untenable,'' Professor Rosenbaum said. ''If insurers don't like the results of regulation in one state, they can pull up stakes and go elsewhere. That's why states often bend to the will of the industry.''
 Prof. James W. Ely Jr. of Vanderbilt Law School said the clamor against health insurance companies was ''reminiscent of populist outrage against railroads in the second half of the 19th century,'' when a number of Midwestern states created commissions to set rail freight rates. The Supreme Court, Professor Ely said, held that railroads and other regulated industries were entitled to a reasonable return on investment -- an issue in some current battles over health insurance.
 Mila Kofman, the insurance superintendent in Maine, said federal standards must be ''a floor and not a ceiling'' for states. 
 ''I want to be sure that federal legislation does not pre-empt what we do, will not interfere with our strong standard and broad authority to do rate review,'' Ms. Kofman said.
 Anthem requested an average rate increase of 18.5 percent in Maine, but Ms. Kofman allowed only 10.9 percent. She said the higher rates would have caused ''extreme financial hardship for subscribers.''
 The company sued, arguing that Ms. Kofman had set inadequate, ''confiscatory'' rates, with no allowance for profit. Under Maine law, it said, the state could not consider a policyholder's ''personal financial circumstances'' in establishing rates.
 Ms. Kofman defended her decision, citing the overall financial health of the company, as well as its income from individual insurance products. The case is pending.
 The individual insurance market is notoriously volatile, and Susan E. Voss, the Iowa insurance commissioner, said she had seen some companies paying out 50 percent more in claims than they collected in premiums for some policies in that market.

GRAPHIC: MAP: Regulating Premiums (Source: National Association of Insurance Commissioners) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE PREMIUMS (92%); INSURANCE (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (90%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); HEALTH CARE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF INSURANCE COMMISSIONERS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JAN SCHAKOWSKY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



217 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Reach May Be Curbed Under Plan

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Several high-ranking members of the Senate Banking Committee have reached a tentative consensus on a plan that would strip the Federal Reserve of regulatory powers over all but the very largest banks, those with more than $100 billion in assets, people briefed on the negotiations said on Monday night.
 The plan would remove Fed oversight from all but 23 of the 4,974 bank holding companies, which have a collective $16.7 trillion in assets, and from 874 state-chartered member banks that are members of the Fed system and that have a total of $1.7 trillion in assets. 
 The vast majority of the bank holding companies would be overseen by a regulatory agency formed from a merger of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which oversees national banks, and the Office of Thrift Supervision, which regulates savings and loans, the individuals said.
 Regulation of the state banks would go to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which already oversees about 5,000 banks that are not part of the Fed system.
 The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and presidents of the Fed's district banks have strongly opposed such a move, arguing that bank supervision is an integral part of the central bank's conduct of monetary policy.
 Three people briefed on the Senate negotiations said that Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, the Democratic chairman of the Banking Committee, and two other senators, Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, and Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, supported the plan.
 The individuals spoke on the condition of anonymity because the negotiations were confidential.
 But several other senators, including Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, and Mike Johanns, Republican of Nebraska, were said to be wary of removing the Fed's powers over bank supervision. And while the committee's ranking Republican, Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, has been a critic of the Fed and of Mr. Bernanke, he has appeared to soften his views of the Fed recently.
 Supporters of the Fed have also been trying to lobby other members of the committee, including Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, and Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas.
 Attitudes toward the Fed have careered back and forth during weeks of tense and often chaotic closed-door negotiations.
 Even while senators have talked of stripping away much of the Fed's bank supervision powers, they have simultaneously entertained a proposal to house a new consumer financial protection agency under the aegis of the central bank.
 The new agency would regulate mortgages, credit cards and other financial products. The scope of the agency's powers, in particular, whether it should have independent ability to write and enforce rules, has been a point of bitter contention. And it is not certain that the Fed would house the new agency, as Mr. Corker has urged; Mr. Dodd has suggested the Treasury Department, and Mr. Shelby the F.D.I.C.
 Aides for Mr. Dodd said that he would not be ready to propose a bill until the end of the week at the earliest. Mr. Dodd has struggled since last fall to arrive at an overhaul of financial regulations that has at least some Republican support.
 Along with bank supervision and the consumer agency, many aspects of the regulatory overhaul remain under discussion.
 Among them are the creation of an interagency council, led by the Treasury, that would monitor systemic financial risks; improvement in the transparency in the trading of over-the-counter derivatives; a strengthening of the Securities and Exchange Commission's ability to protect investors; and ''resolution authority,'' or a process for seizing and dismantling a financial institution on the verge of failure so as to avoid a major disruption to the economy.
 The largest bank holding companies by assets, as of Dec. 31, were Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MERGERS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (56%); OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (78%); RICHARD SHELBY (78%); MIKE JOHANNS (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%); BOB CORKER (58%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); JON TESTER (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); MARK WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



218 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Budget Talk Offers Respite From Travails For Paterson

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
When Gov. David A. Paterson goes out in public these days, the questions he typically faces from the news media are about resignation (Are you stepping down, governor?) or the various legal and ethical inquiries shadowing him (Did you violate your oath to uphold the law, governor?).
 So it must have come as something of a relief to him Monday morning when Mr. Paterson, who is by some measures the most unpopular governor the state has ever seen, found that quite a few people wanted him to hang in. 
 ''I want to commend you for keeping it real,'' said one man, who was among about two dozen people given the opportunity to ask Mr. Paterson a question at a town hall meeting on the state budget that the governor held at Brooklyn Borough Hall. 
 ''God bless you,'' another said.
 Even as he defends himself against accusations that threaten to drive him out of office, Mr. Paterson enjoys some loyal support, particularly among black voters and elected officials, who view the governor's successes and failures as very personal.
 ''There's a sense of ownership, a real sense of ownership,'' said Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, chairman of the Manhattan Democratic Party. ''What's key among people of color, I think -- and I'm certainly not speaking for all people of color -- is we don't want other people picking our leaders, and we don't want other people vilifying our leaders.''
 He said he noticed the kind of fealty Mr. Paterson had from some black political circles at a Feb. 25 town hall meeting Mr. Wright sponsored in Harlem, the night before Mr. Paterson ended his campaign for governor. ''This was when his head was probably heaviest and he was really getting beat up. And don't you know, at my town hall meeting, we gave him a standing ovation.''
 Mr. Paterson received another standing ovation on Monday from the crowd of about 200 people who gathered at Brooklyn Borough Hall to listen to Mr. Paterson discuss the budget and to ask him questions.
 As the governor spoke to reporters outside after the meeting, some of his supporters spilled out onto the steps of Borough Hall and shouted encouraging remarks like ''Good man!'' and ''We love you, Governor Paterson!''
 Many of his supporters there on Monday were black. But others, like Doug Biviano, a civil engineer and former City Council candidate who said he was briefly unemployed and without health insurance last year, seemed to identify with the governor's difficulties and said they appreciated his straightforwardness about the fiscal mess that the state faces. ''Thank you, Governor Paterson, for being brutally honest,'' Mr. Biviano said.
 While the crowd essentially ignored Mr. Paterson's political problems, the same could not be said of reporters who questioned him after the meeting.
 He said he had not yet scheduled a meeting with the attorney general's office to discuss its investigation into his administration's handling of a domestic assault case involving one of his top aides. Brushing off questions about the case, he said his defense lawyer had asked him not to discuss it publicly. The governor has hired one of the foremost defense lawyers, Theodore V. Wells Jr. 
 ''My lawyer has advised me not to discuss the facts of the case,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''And I don't want to add to a difficult situation. I want the committee to come back with a finding of no fault on my part. And I'm not going to do anything to antagonize them in the interim.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson at a town hall meeting Monday in Brooklyn, where he seemed to be among friends. He received a standing ovation from the crowd.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); ETHICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); CITIES (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (52%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



219 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1569 words

HEADLINE: Riches Just Out of Reach

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and ELISABETH MALKIN

 BODY:
VENUSTIANO CARRANZA, Mexico -- To the Mexican people, one of the great achievements in their history was the day their president kicked out foreign oil companies in 1938. Thus, they celebrate March 18 as a civic holiday.
 Yet today, that 72-year-old act has put Mexico in a straitjacket, one that threatens both the welfare of the country and the oil supply of the United States.
 The national oil company created after the 1938 seizure, Pemex, is entering a period of turmoil. Oil production in its aging fields is sagging so rapidly that Mexico, long one of the world's top oil-exporting countries, could begin importing oil within the decade.
 Mexico is among the three leading foreign suppliers of oil to the United States, along with Canada and Saudi Arabia. Mexican barrels can be replaced, but at a cost. It means greater American dependence on unfriendly countries like Venezuela, unstable countries like Nigeria and Iraq, and on the oil sands of Canada, an environmentally destructive form of oil production. 
 ''As you lose Mexican oil, you lose a critical supply,'' said Jeremy M. Martin, director of the energy program at the Institute of the Americas at the University of California, San Diego. ''It's not just about energy security but national security, because our neighbor's economic and political well-being is largely linked to its capacity to produce and export oil.''
 Mexico probably still has plenty of oil, especially beneath the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico, but Pemex lacks the technology and know-how to get it out. Inviting foreign companies into the country to help is one of the touchiest propositions in Mexican politics.
 As the Mexican government struggles to find a way forward, production keeps falling.
 The basic problem is simply that Mexico's readily accessible oil is used up -- pretty much the same thing that happened to the United States when production began falling in the 1970s. Output from Mexico's giant Cantarell field, in shallow waters near the eastern shore, has plunged by 50 percent in recent years. Output at the country's other large field is expected to begin falling in the next year or two. 
 Historically, oil has supplied 30 to 40 percent of the Mexican government's revenue. Confronting a potential calamity, President Felipe Calderon has pushed through the strongest reforms he can defend politically, in hopes of attracting foreign investment. But he dare not do anything that would appear to reverse the 1938 nationalization. Even the modest reforms he has managed to pass are being challenged in court.
 Officially, the government is optimistic that Mexico can reverse its decline as an oil-producing nation. But its efforts so far have yielded more rhetoric than oil.
 Last year, on the day celebrating the 1938 seizure, the president's helicopter landed in a hilly oil field outside this farming town. He announced that a new era of Mexican gushers would dawn soon.
 ''Under this soil,'' Mr. Calderon told thousands of oil workers, lay ''the richness that could propel development in our country and help Mexico accelerate our path to progress and well-being.'' He promised that 20 wells would be spurting crude ''very soon'' from the ground on which he stood.
 Almost a year later, only three wells were pumping on a recent afternoon. Eleven had been shut after producing little or no oil. In fact, the effort to develop the geologically challenging Chicontepec field here, near the gulf coast, is deteriorating into an embarrassing disaster for Pemex, the latest in a string of them.
 In all, Mexican oil output has dropped from just short of 3.5 million barrels a day in 2004 to a projected average of 2.5 million barrels this year. Mexican oil exports to the United States, now 1.1 million barrels a day, have fallen by nearly a third in the last six years. 
 The United States Energy Department projects that Mexican production will decline by an additional 600,000 barrels a day by 2020; combined with growing domestic demand, that would probably make the country an oil importer. 
 In the last two years, Mexico provided about 12 percent of all crude oil imports to the United States, supplying about 8 percent of the total oil used by American refineries, according to the Energy Department. 
 Pemex -- officially Petroleos Mexicanos -- is the most important company in Mexico, employing 140,000 people. Oil money is used for everything from building schools to fighting the war against drug cartels.
 ''The fact that Mexico's production is rapidly declining could potentially cause a financial crisis not only for Pemex but for the government,'' said Enrique Sira, the Mexico director of IHS Cera, an energy consulting firm.
 Mexican officials put the best face on the situation, hailing a reform package passed by Congress two years ago that gives Pemex more independence and leeway in negotiating service contracts with foreign firms.
 ''There is nothing to stop us from improving,'' Pemex's director general, Juan Jose Suarez Coppel, said at a recent university conference. 
 In an interview, the Mexican energy secretary, Georgina Kessel, said she expected the drop in oil production to level off this year, ''and we can begin on the road back toward reversing the fall in production in the coming years.'' 
 To accomplish that, Ms. Kessel said, ''Mexico is going to have to go to the deep waters of the Gulf of Mexico,'' where she estimated there are at least 50 billion barrels in potential oil reserves -- more than double the country's current proven reserves.
 International oil executives share the enthusiasm for Mexico's potential deepwater fields, which lie near rich new American fields. Mexico ''potentially has, if not the largest, one of the largest undiscovered deepwater petroleum resources in the world,'' said Jon Blickwede, a senior geologist at Statoil, a Norwegian oil company active in the Gulf.
 Pemex has stepped up exploration of its deep waters, but it will take specialized expertise and enormous financing to produce oil there. Just one deepwater rig can cost $365 million a year to operate, which is why even companies the size of Chevron and Shell look for partners to share the financial risk.
 Carlos Morales, head of Pemex production and exploration, said in an interview that the company was in advanced discussions with foreign companies to develop ''new models'' of contracts to share costs and technology on land and offshore that would include cash payments. ''Without doubt, Pemex is in a key moment in its history,'' he said.
 Like the government, international oil executives said they were cautiously optimistic some arrangement with Pemex could be worked out. But in the best case, it will be 10 or 15 years before significant production can begin in the deep gulf -- and by then, Mexico could already be an oil importer.
 Stumbling blocks remain. The recent reforms do not lift constitutional prohibitions that effectively prevent foreign companies from booking Mexican reserves they help discover, which undermines their incentive to sign deals with Pemex. 
 The Mexican government hopes to interpret the new rules to allow foreign firms to share the profits of new discoveries, but opposition political parties have filed a constitutional challenge to the rules. The case is before the Mexican Supreme Court.
 The 1938 nationalization, by the leftist government of Lazaro Cardenas, came at the end of a long period of revolutionary ferment in Mexico. It occurred amid rising tensions between foreign oil interests, including American companies, and Mexican workers who felt they were being exploited. Schoolchildren learn about it as one of the great assertions of Mexican sovereignty. 
 An outright reversal of that act is unthinkable in Mexican politics. Carlos Fuentes, the Mexican novelist and former ambassador, said any government leader who would try to change the legal status of oil ''would be hanged in the Zocalo,'' referring to Mexico City's main square, though he personally would like to see some arrangement with foreign oil companies worked out.
 As a symbol of nationalism and sovereignty, Pemex is run like a government agency, not an oil company. Its budget is set by the Congress, so it cannot plan exploration far in advance. It is burdened by taxes, debt and pension liabilities that limit its ability to spend money discovering new fields.
 Mexico's most important field has long been Cantarell. When production first faltered in the late 1990s, Pemex injected huge amounts of nitrogen gas to raise the pressure and increase production. But experts say the company may have gone overboard, bolstering production so much that the eventual collapse was accelerated. 
 With production in deep gulf waters still a distant dream, the hope of stabilizing Mexico's production has centered on the Chicontepec field here, on land. But Pemex's production forecast, of up to 700,000 barrels a day by 2017, has evaporated as hole after hole came up dry. 
 Chicontepec is now yielding only 35,000 barrels a day. The oil is contained in small pockets, and wet, hilly terrain makes it difficult to transport gear. Local corn farmers are slowing the drilling by blockading roads, demanding improvements like parks and pavement.
 ''The oil is down there,'' said Sergio Gomez, the Pemex production coordinator in Chicontepec. ''The problem is getting it out of the ground.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Oil workers in the Chicontepec field, which is yielding only 35,000 barrels of oil a day, but could provide much more. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
The effort to develop the geologically challenging Chicontepec field is deteriorating into an embarrassing setback for Pemex. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Georgina Kessel, the energy secretary, estimated there are 50 billion barrels in potential oil reserves in the Gulf of Mexico.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSANA GONZALEZ/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B5) CHARTS: Falling Production: Crude oil production in Mexico has dropped sharply in the last few years to a level below that of a decade ago. At the same time, the United States has become less dependent on crude oil imports from its neighbor to the south.: Mexico crude oil production: Million barrels a day
Share of U.S. crude oil imports from Mexico (Sources: Energy Information Administration
 Pemex)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); POLITICS (78%); OIL SANDS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); INWARD INVESTMENT (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%)

COMPANY: PETROLEOS MEXICANOS (PEMEX) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%)

PERSON: FELIPE CALDERON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); IRAQ (79%); NIGERIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



220 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Threatens Retaliation in Dispute on Cotton Subsidies

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
BRASILIA (Reuters) -- Brazil detailed its planned retaliation against the United States over American cotton subsidies on Monday, but said that Washington still had a chance to settle the trade dispute through negotiations. 
 The Brazilian government published on Monday a list of American goods subject to import tariffs that will go into effect in 30 days, unless the governments can reach an accord by then.
 The World Trade Organization gave Brazil the go-ahead last year to impose sanctions on American imports after the body ruled that Washington spent too much subsidizing cotton farmers and on an export credit guarantee program. 
 The United States said Monday that it was disappointed by the move. A spokeswoman for the Office of the United States Trade Representative, said: ''U.S.T.R. has worked to reach a solution to the issues in this dispute without Brazil resorting to countermeasures and we continue to prefer a negotiated solution.'' 
 The Commerce secretary, Gary F. Locke, may try to resolve the matter when he visits Brazil on Tuesday. 
 Bilateral trade between the two countries fell to $36 billion in 2009, from $53 billion in 2008.
 The trade dispute began in 2002 and is one of the few in which the W.T.O. allowed cross-retaliation -- that clears the way for the wronged party to retaliate against a sector not involved in the case.
 ''Retaliation is not the best way to reach fair international trade but after nearly eight years and no concrete proposals to help solve this dispute, Brazil must insist on its rights,'' Lytha Spindola, executive secretary of the Brazilian government's Foreign Trade Chamber, said.
 The list of around 100 items includes a tariff increase on cars to 50 percent, from 35 percent; a rise on wheat tariffs to 30 percent, from 10 percent; and a 48 percent levy on milk powder, up from 28 percent. Cotton and cotton products would be charged a 100 percent import tariff, the highest on the list. Brazilian officials have intentionally chosen a wide range of products with relatively small tariff increases to affect a broad range of producers in the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DISPUTES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COTTON FARMING (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE (56%)

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



221 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: The Emotion Of Reform

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
We all have our emotional hot and cold spots. If you asked me about the New York Mets, you'd see a glow in my eyes. If you asked me about banking reform, words might come out of my mouth, but you'd notice me nodding off midsentence.
 For the Democrats, expanding health care coverage is an emotional hot spot. Over the past year, Democrats have fought passionately for universal coverage. They have fought for it even while the country is more concerned about the economy, and in the face of serial political defeats. They have fought for it even though it has crowded out other items on their agenda and may even cost them their majority in the House. 
 And they've done it for almost no votes. The 30 million who would be covered under the Democratic proposals are not big voters, while the millions who would pay for the coverage are strikingly unhappy.
 There is something morally impressive in the Democrats' passion on this issue. At the same time, it's interesting to compare it to their behavior on other issues in which they have no emotional investment.
 For example, Democrats say the right thing when it comes to helping small businesses create jobs, but there's no passion there. For the past year, small business owners have been screaming that they can't hire people because they don't know what the rules will be on health care, finance or energy. Democrats hear them, but those concerns take a back seat to other priorities.
 Small business owners have been screaming about the health care bill that forces them to offer coverage or pay a $2,000-per-employee fine but doesn't substantially control rising costs. Democrats hear their concerns, but push ahead because getting a health care bill is more important.
 Then there is the larger issue of exploding federal deficits. A few Democrats are genuinely passionate about this, President Obama among them. He has fought tenaciously to preserve a commission that might restrain Medicare spending. But 90 percent of the people in Congress have no emotional investment in this issue.
 They're going through the motions. They've stuffed the legislation with gimmicks and dodges designed to get a good score from the Congressional Budget Office but don't genuinely control runaway spending.
 There is the doc fix dodge. The legislation pretends that Congress is about to cut Medicare reimbursements by 21 percent. Everyone knows that will never happen, so over the next decade actual spending will be $300 billion higher than paper projections.
 There is the long-term care dodge. The bill creates a $72 billion trust fund to pay for a new long-term care program. The sponsors count that money as cost-saving, even though it will eventually be paid back out when the program comes on line.
 There is the subsidy dodge. Workers making $60,000 and in the health exchanges would receive $4,500 more in subsidies in 2016 than workers making $60,000 and not in the exchanges. There is no way future Congresses will allow that disparity to persist. Soon, everybody will get the subsidy.
 There is the excise tax dodge. The primary cost-control mechanism and long-term revenue source for the program is the tax on high-cost plans. But Democrats aren't willing to levy this tax for eight years. The fiscal sustainability of the whole bill rests on the naive hope that a future Congress will have the guts to accept a trillion-dollar tax when the current Congress wouldn't accept an increase of a few billion.
 There is the 10-6 dodge. One of the reasons the bill appears deficit-neutral in the first decade is that it begins collecting revenue right away but doesn't have to pay for most benefits until 2014. That's 10 years of revenues to pay for 6 years of benefits, something unlikely to happen again unless the country agrees to go without health care for four years every decade.
 There is the Social Security dodge. The bill uses $52 billion in higher Social Security taxes to pay for health care expansion. But if Social Security taxes pay for health care, what pays for Social Security?
 There is the pilot program dodge. Admirably, the bill includes pilot programs designed to help find ways to control costs. But it's not clear that the bill includes mechanisms to actually implement the results. This is exactly what happened to undermine previous pilot program efforts.
 The Democrats have not been completely irresponsible. It's just that as the health fight has gone on, their passion for coverage has swamped their less visceral commitment to reducing debt. The result is a bill that is fundamentally imbalanced.
 This past year, we've seen how hard it is to even pass legislation that expands benefits. To actually reduce benefits and raise taxes, we're going to need legislators who wake up in the morning passionate about fiscal sanity. The ones we have now are just making things worse. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); MEDICARE (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); BASEBALL (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (76%); LONG TERM CARE INSURANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



222 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: The Dark Side of Home Subsidies

BYLINE: By AGNES T. CRANE and NEIL UNMACK

 BODY:
EDITORS' NOTE APPENDED
Home ownership in the United States ranks up there with motherhood and apple pie. The government has championed it for decades through tax breaks, mortgage guarantees and, most recently, the herculean task of keeping Americans in their homes after the housing market collapse. But government subsidies of the American Dream also have a darker side: when things head south, taxpayers end up stuck with the costs.
The government-run mortgage finance agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac owned more than 131,000 properties between them at the end of 2009, according to recent annual filings. That's roughly the equivalent of San Francisco's owner-occupied housing stock. The two companies sold off nearly 200,000 units last year that they took over after owners defaulted. But despite those efforts, Fannie and Freddie owned substantially more units at the end of 2009 than they did a year earlier. 
And things are set to get worse. Barclays Capital estimates the pipeline of severely troubled loans at around five million across the United States. Modification programs, which should help some borrowers stay in their homes, have also delayed the inevitable forfeiture of many others.
Fannie and Freddie end up owning properties because they provided guarantees for the benefit of mortgage investors. Between them, they back around $5 trillion of American home loans. Such support -- once implicitly and now explicitly backstopped by the Treasury -- has handed borrowers relatively low financing costs for years.
Now, though, the result is that aside from the huge financial burden they place on taxpayers, the two companies have been amassing foreclosed properties and, in a few cases, have become landlords.
It's a tiny part of their operations for now. But if the housing market doesn't turn around soon, the companies could find themselves reluctantly managing more properties. And no one expected, or wanted, Fannie and Freddie to become giant public-sector landlords.
The immediate task is to clean up the mess, but policy makers need to think about the longer term. That means recognizing that the policy benefit of subsidizing home ownership has reached its limit, and starting to take the government out of the mortgage guarantee business altogether.
Contingency Planning
Ever since the financial crisis struck, regulators the world over have argued for an overhaul of bank capital. So-called contingent capital, which can absorb losses while keeping a bank in business, was promoted as a solution in the United States and elsewhere.
But until last week it had been used by only a few distressed lenders and enthusiasm seemed to be waning.
The decision by Rabobank -- one of the world's most highly rated banks -- to issue contingent capital securities could reinvigorate the idea. Rabobank, based in the Netherlands, is the first healthy European lender to sell the securities to investors as a new issue.
Bankers hope contingent capital can replace older hybrid securities that combine characteristics of debt and equity. These were popular during the boom because they counted toward banks' regulatory capital but did not dilute shareholders. But during the crisis, they failed to help banks absorb hits to their capital.
Contingent capital instruments address this problem by converting into some form of capital if a bank's reserves fall below a predetermined level. Lloyds Banking Group last year issued bonds that would convert into shares at a set point. But it did so as part of a debt exchange that gave investors a strong incentive to convert.
Rabobank's securities are different. Rather than converting into equity when the bank's capital runs low, they would automatically be written down to 25 percent of their face value and repaid. That would reduce Rabobank's liabilities, allowing it to book a profit, which in turn would raise its capital.
It's a tryout for a new version of contingent capital. But it's not clear how much of a market there is for this kind of debt. One problem is how to price it. If Rabobank's securities were written down, investors would suffer a loss with no prospect of future recovery. The fact that the bond is unrated will also deter some buyers.
So while Rabobank's offering takes the market for contingent capital one step forward, it won't be the last word. It will still take some time before the contingent capital theory converts into reality.
AGNES T. CRANE and NEIL UNMACK
For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com.
Editors' Note: October 20, 2010, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: Reuters Breakingviews, a news service whose market analysis articles are published in the business pages of The Times, has identified several past articles in which a writer had a financial interest in the subject or traded in related investments before or after publication. Three of those articles appeared in The Times: on June 4, about BP; and on March 9 and last Dec. 28, involving Lloyds Banking Group. The Times prohibits staff reporters and editors from owning stock or having any other financial interest in a company that they cover, and Reuters said the articles in question also violated its own rules on conflicts of interest. The Times would not have published the articles if editors had known of the conflict.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rosa Morales of Kissimmee, Fla., at a mortgage modification clinic last month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLEN EYESTONE/PALM BEACH POST, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (56%); COOPERATIEVE CENTRALE RAIFFEISEN-BOERENLEENBANK BA (50%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010



223 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Television Is Not Free and Does Not Want to Be

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
The proliferation of ''free'' media on the Internet seems to have convinced an entire generation that the old hacker slogan from a quarter-century ago, ''information wants to be free,'' can be an organizing principle for the information economy of the future.
 Google brings us abundant ''free'' content while raking in billions from the ads alongside their search results. The Pirate Bay delivers ''free'' music and movies to teenagers while living off the revenue from banner ads. But then there is television. One of the oldest free mediums, it has something to teach us about free information: It can be expensive. And, perhaps, we would be better off if we were allowed to pay for it. 
 The TV spats of the past few weeks -- between Cablevision and the Walt Disney Company over payments for ABC, and between Time Warner and the News Corporation over Fox -- suggest that the future lies in the opposite direction from free. 
 The most recent tussle was over Disney's demand that Cablevision pay something between 50 cents and $1 per subscriber per month, according to news reports, to pipe ABC to Cablevision's three million subscribers in the New York metropolitan region. 
 Historically, cable companies have not had to pay for broadcast channels. They compensated broadcasters by buying access to sister networks. Cablevision says it pays Disney $200 million a year for about a dozen channels, including ESPN and the Disney Channel.
 On Sunday, as talks hit an impasse, Disney cut ABC's signal from Cablevision for almost 21 hours, including 14 minutes of the Oscars -- the second-highest ranked program on TV by ratings after the Super Bowl. The signal was restored by a tentative, undisclosed deal. 
 If I were a Cablevision subscriber, I would probably want to pay. Compared with some of the other costs of free TV, $1 a month doesn't seem too expensive. In fact, for the right broadcast, I would pay even more.
 Americans watch 153 hours of TV a month, on average, according to a Nielsen survey. On prime time, ABC has a 9 percent share. At $1 a month, a rough, back-of-the-envelope estimate (assuming families watch TV together) would suggest Disney wants, at most, 7 cents an hour from the average Cablevision subscriber to watch its shows.
 Compare that with today's price of TV. Cablevision's basic ''family cable'' package costs $55.95 a month, which works out at most to 37 cents an hour per home. That is cheap compared with the real price we pay for television: 18 minutes out of every hour that we are expected to spend watching ads. Those 18 minutes are much more valuable to me and you than they are to ABC.
 A study in 2009 estimated that advertisers paid about $230,000 for a 30-second spot on ABC's ''Desperate Housewives.'' That amounts to 79 cents an hour for each of the 10.6 million homes plugged into the show on Sunday nights. But if average hourly wages are $22.05 an hour, 18 minutes of the average workers' time are worth $6.60. 
 Imagine a world in which information isn't free. Your TV set is fitted with a coin slot -- or a PayPal account. Wouldn't you rather pay 79 cents for an hourlong show to get rid of the ads? Even the 50 or so national commercials on the Oscars, for which ABC reportedly charged up to $1.5 million per spot, amount to about $1.80 for each of the 41.3 million viewers. 
 While we're at it, why not add 37 cents and ditch the family cable bundle and its dozens of unwatched networks? We could even throw in 7 more cents for Disney. It seems to be a better deal than $55.95 a month, plus 18 minutes an hour. 
 Technology might move us inevitably in this direction. Broadcast TV networks are badgering cable systems for money because falling ad revenues are forcing them to find new sources of income. Digital video recorders that offer customers the ability to strip out commercials could hasten the trend. 
 If we're lucky, we'll get a world in which TV is not free, but we will only pay for it when we want to watch it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); FAMILY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (76%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (84%); NEWS CORP (83%); GOOGLE INC (58%); DISNEY-ABC TELEVISION GROUP (58%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (84%); NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



224 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1804 words

HEADLINE: Public Pensions Are Adding Risk To Raise Returns

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
States and companies have started investing very differently when it comes to the billions of dollars they are safeguarding for workers' retirement. 
 Companies are quietly and gradually moving their pension funds out of stocks. They want to reduce their investment risk and are buying more long-term bonds. 
 But states and other bodies of government are seeking higher returns for their pension funds, to make up for ground lost in the last couple of years and to pay all the benefits promised to present and future retirees. Higher returns come with more risk. 
 ''In effect, they're going to Las Vegas,'' said Frederick E. Rowe, a Dallas investor and the former chairman of the Texas Pension Review Board, which oversees public plans in that state. ''Double up to catch up.'' 
 Though they generally say that their strategies are aimed at diversification and are not riskier, public pension funds are trying a wide range of investments: commodity futures, junk bonds, foreign stocks, deeply discounted mortgage-backed securities and margin investing. And some states that previously shunned hedge funds are trying them now. 
 The Texas teachers' pension fund recently paid Chicago to receive a stream of payments from the money going into the city's parking meters in the coming years. The deal gave Chicago an upfront payment that it could use to help balance its budget. Alas, Chicago did not have enough money to contribute to its own pension fund, which has been stung by real estate deals that fizzled when the city lost out in the bidding for the 2016 Olympics. 
 A spokeswoman for the Texas teachers' fund said plan administrators believed that such alternative investments were the likeliest way to earn 8 percent average annual returns over time. 
 Pension funds rarely trumpet their intentions, partly to keep other big investors from trading against them. But some big corporations are unloading the stocks that have dominated pension portfolios for decades. General Motors, Hewlett-Packard, J. C. Penney, Boeing, Federal Express and Ashland are among those that have been shifting significant amounts of pension money out of stocks.
 Other companies say they plan to follow suit, though more slowly. A poll of pension funds conducted by Pyramis Global Advisors last November found that more than half of corporate funds were reducing the portion they invested in United States equities. 
 Laggards tend to be companies with big shortfalls in their pension funds. Those moving the fastest are often mature companies with large pension funds, and who fear a big bear market could decimate the funds and the companies' own finances. 
 ''The larger the pension plan, the lower-risk strategy you would like to employ,'' said Andrew T. Ward, the chief investment officer of Boeing, which shifted a big block of pension money out of stocks in 2007. That helped cushion Boeing's pension fund against the big losses of 2008.
 Shedding stocks gave Boeing ''material protection right when we needed it most,'' Mr. Ward said. By the time the markets had bottomed out last March, Boeing's pension fund had lost 14 percent of its value, while those of its equity-laden peers had lost 25 to 30 percent, he said. 
 ''We estimated that the strategy saved our company in the short term right around $4 or $5 billion of funded status,'' he said.
 Boeing and other companies seeking to reduce their investment risk are moving into fixed-income instruments, like bonds -- but not just any bonds. They are buying and holding bonds scheduled to pay many years in the future, when their retirees expect their money. 
 The value of the bonds may fall in the meantime, just like the value of stocks. But declining bond prices are not such a worry, because the companies plan to hold the bonds for the accompanying interest payments that will in turn go to retirees, not sell them in the interim. 
 Towers Watson, a big benefits consulting firm, surveyed senior financial executives last year and found that two-thirds planned to decrease the stock portion of their companies' pension funds by the end of 2010. They typically said their stock allocations would shrink by 10 percentage points. 
 ''That's 10 times the shift we might see in any given year,'' said Carl Hess, head of Towers Watson's investment consulting business. Economists have speculated that a truly seismic shift in pension investing away from stocks could be a drag on the market, but they say it would not be long-lasting.
 Corporate America's change of heart is notable all on its own, after decades of resistance to anything other than returns like those of the stock markets. But it's even more startling when compared with governments' continued loyalty to stocks. When governments scale back on the domestic stocks in their pension portfolios these days, it is often just to make way for more foreign stocks or private equities, which are not publicly traded. 
 Government pension plans cannot beef up their bonds that mature many, many years from now without dashing their business models. They use long-range estimates that presume high investment returns will cover most of the cost of the benefits they must pay. And that, they say, allows them to make smaller contributions along the way. 
 Most have been assuming their investments will pay 8 percent a year on average, over the long term. This is based on an assumption that stocks will pay 9.5 percent on average, and bonds will pay about 5.75 percent, in roughly a 60-40 mix. 
 (Corporate plans do their calculations differently, and for them, investment returns are a less important factor.)
 The problem now is that bond rates have been low for years, and stocks have been prone to such wild swings that a 60-40 mixture of stocks and bonds is not paying 8 percent. Many public pension funds have been averaging a little more than 3 percent a year for the last decade, so they have fallen behind where their planning models say they should be. 
 A growing number of experts say that governments need to lower the assumptions they make about rates of return, to reflect today's market conditions. 
 But plan officials say they cannot. 
 ''Nobody wants to adjust the rate, because liabilities would explode,'' said Trent May, chief investment officer of Wyoming's state pension fund. 
 The $30 billion Colorado state pension fund is one of a tiny number of government plans to disclose how much difference even a slight change in its projected rate of return could make. Colorado has been assuming its investments will earn 8.5 percent annually, on average, and on that basis it reported a $17.9 billion shortfall in its most recent annual report. 
 But the state also disclosed what would happen if it lowered its investment assumption just half a percentage point, to 8 percent. Though it might be more likely to achieve that return, Colorado would earn less over time on its investments. So at 8 percent, the plan's shortfall would actually jump to $21.4 billion. Contributions would need to increase to keep pace. 
 Colorado cannot afford the contributions it owes, even at the current estimated rate of return. It has fallen behind by several billion dollars on its yearly contributions, and after a bruising battle the legislature recently passed a bill reducing retirees' cost-of-living adjustment, to 2 percent, from 3.5 percent. Public employees' unions are threatening to sue to have the law repealed. 
 If Colorado could somehow get 9 percent annual returns from its investments, though, its pension shortfall would shrink to a less daunting $15 billion, according to its annual report. 
 That explains why plan officials are looking everywhere for high-yielding investments. 
 Mr. May, in Wyoming, said many governments were ''moving away from the perceived safety and liquidity of the investment-grade market'' and investing money offshore, but he said he was aware of the risks. ''There's a history of emerging markets kind of hitting the wall,'' he said. 
 Last year, the North Carolina Legislature enacted a measure to let the state pension fund invest 5 percent of its assets in ''credit opportunities,'' like junk bonds and asset-backed securities from the Federal Reserve's Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, an emergency program created to thaw the frozen markets for such securities. 
 The law also lets North Carolina put 5 percent of its pension portfolio into commodities, real estate and other assets that the state sees as hedges against inflation. A summary of the bill issued by the state's treasurer and sole pension trustee, Janet Cowell, said it would provide ''flexibility and the tools to increase portfolio return and better manage risk.''
 But some think they see new risks. 
 ''It doesn't pass the smell test,'' said Edward Macheski, a retired money manager living in North Carolina. ''North Carolina's assumption is 7.25 percent, and they haven't matched it in 10 years.'' He went to a recent meeting of the state treasurer's advisory board, armed with a list of questions about the investment policy. But the board voted not to permit any public discussion. 
 Wisconsin, meanwhile, has become one of the first states to adopt an investment strategy called ''risk parity,'' which involves borrowing extra money for the pension portfolio and investing it in a type of Treasury bond that will pay higher interest if inflation rises. 
 Officials of the State of Wisconsin Investment Board declined to be interviewed but provided written descriptions of risk parity. The records show that Wisconsin wanted to reduce its exposure to the stock market, and shifting money into the inflation-proof Treasury bonds would do that. But Wisconsin also wanted to keep its assumed rate of return at 7.8 percent, and the Treasury bonds would not pay that much. 
 Wisconsin decided it could lower its equities but preserve its assumption if it also added a significant amount of leverage to its pension fund, by using a variety of derivative instruments, like swaps, futures or repurchase agreements. 
 It decided to start with a small amount of leverage and gradually increase it over time, but word of even a baby step into derivatives elicited howls of protest from around the state. 
 The big California pension fund, known as Calpers, was already under fire for losing billions of dollars on private equities and real estate in the last few years. So far it has stayed with those asset classes, while negotiating lower fees and writing off some of the most troubled real estate investments. 
 It announced in February that it had started looking into whether it should lower its expected rate of investment return, now 7.75 percent a year. It has embarked on a study, but a spokesman said that process would not be done until December, safely after the coming election. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Frederick E. Rowe, a Dallas investor and the former chairman of the Texas Pension Review Board, said states were looking at riskier investments in an effort to meet pension obligations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY W. HOEFER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Trent May, chief of Wyoming's pension fund, said states were ''moving away from the perceived safety and liquidity of the investment-grade market.'' (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); BONDS (89%); FUTURES (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); HEDGE FUNDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (67%)

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); PYRAMIS GLOBAL ADVISORS LLC (52%); BOEING CO (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (52%); BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



225 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Solar Industry Learns Lessons In Spanish Sun

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
PUERTOLLANO, Spain -- Two years ago, this gritty mining city hosted a brief 21st-century gold rush. Long famous for coal, Puertollano discovered another energy source it had overlooked: the relentless, scorching sun. 
 Armed with generous incentives from the Spanish government to jump-start a national solar energy industry, the city set out to replace its failing coal economy by attracting solar companies, with a campaign slogan: ''The Sun Moves Us.''
 Soon, Puertollano, home to the Museum of the Mining Industry, had two enormous solar power plants, factories making solar panels and silicon wafers, and clean energy research institutes. Half the solar power installed globally in 2008 was installed in Spain.
 Farmers sold land for solar plants. Boutiques opened. And people from all over the world, seeing business opportunities, moved to the city, which had suffered from 20 percent unemployment and a population exodus. 
 But as low-quality, poorly designed solar plants sprang up on Spain's plateaus, Spanish officials came to realize that they would have to subsidize many of them indefinitely, and that the industry they had created might never produce efficient green energy on its own. 
 In September the government abruptly changed course, cutting payments and capping solar construction. Puertollano's brief boom turned bust. Factories and stores shut, thousands of workers lost jobs, foreign companies and banks abandoned contracts that had already been negotiated. 
 ''We lost the opportunity to be at the vanguard of renewables -- we were not only generating electricity, but also a strong economy,'' said Joaquin Carlos Hermoso Murillo, Puertollano's mayor since 2004. ''Why are they limiting solar power, when the sun is unlimited?'' 
 Puertollano's wrenching fall points to the delicate policy calculations needed to stimulate nascent solar industries and create green jobs, and might serve as a cautionary tale for the United States, where a similar exercise is now under way. 
 For now, electricity generation from the sun's rays needs to be subsidized because it requires the purchase of new equipment and investment in evolving technologies. But costs are rapidly dropping. And regulators are still learning how to structure stimulus payments so that they yield a stable green industry that supports itself, rather than just costly energy and an economic flash in the pan like Spain's. 
 ''The industry as a whole learned a lot from what happened in Spain,'' said Cassidy DeLine, who analyzes the European solar market for Emerging Energy Research, a firm based in Cambridge, Mass. She noted that other countries had since set subsidies lower and issued stricter standards for solar plants. 
 Yet, despite the pain that Spain's incentives ended up causing, in many ways they fulfilled their promise, Ms. DeLine said. 
 ''Even though incentives can create bubbles and bursts, without them this industry won't take off,'' she said. ''The U.S. is really behind Europe on this, and if we wait until solar is cost-competitive on its own, we may miss the boat and an opportunity to shape the market.'' 
 The most robust Spanish solar companies survived the downturn, have restructured and are re-emerging as global players. 
 For example, when the government changed course, Siliken Renewable Energy, originally a producer of solar panels, shut its factories for five months and cut its staff to 600 from 1,200. But after shifting its focus to external markets like Italy, France and the United States, and diversifying into solar support services, the company now turns a profit. 
 ''We were a company that banks trusted, so we could make the shift,'' said Antonio Navarro, a company spokesman. ''But a lot of little companies disappeared.'' 
 The period was particularly difficult because it coincided with the global economic crisis, he said. 
 To encourage development of solar power and reduce dependence on fossil fuels, Europe has generally relied on so-called feed-in tariffs, through which governments pay a hefty premium for electricity from renewable resources. Regulators in the United States have favored less direct incentives like requiring municipalities to buy a percentage of their electricity from companies making renewable energy, although a few cities and states, most notably Vermont, are experimenting with the feed-in concept. 
 When it was announced in the summer of 2007, Spain's premium payment for solar power was the most generous anywhere -- 58 cents per kilowatt-hour -- with few strings attached. 
 In retrospect it was far too high. ''Everyone from all over the world was installing in Spain as fast as they could, and every biologist who could add was working in solar,'' said Pedro Banda, director general of the Institute of Concentration Photovoltaic Systems, one of the research institutes in Puertollano.
 Even inefficient, poorly designed plants could make a profit, and speculation in solar building permits was common. 
 Although Spain's long-term goal had been to produce 400 megawatts of electricity from solar panels by 2010, it reached that milestone by the end of 2007.
 In 2008 the nation connected 2.5 gigawatts of solar power into its grid, more than quintupling its previous capacity and making it second to Germany, the world leader. But many of the hastily opened plants offered no hope of being cost-competitive with conventional power, being poorly designed or located where sunshine was inadequate, for example. 
 Designs for solar power plants vary. The most common type uses photovoltaic panels to generate electricity. Others, called thermal solar plants, use mirrors to focus the sun's energy on a liquid that, when heated, drives a steam turbine.
 In its haste to create a solar industry, Spain made some miscalculations: solar plants can be set up so quickly and easily that the rush into the industry was much faster than anticipated. And the lavish subsidies inflated Spanish solar installation costs at a time when they were rapidly decreasing elsewhere -- in part because of increasing competition from panel makers in China, but also because higher volumes produced economies of scale. 
 In Spain, the tariff, now adjusted quarterly, is about 39 cents per kilowatt-hour for electricity from freestanding solar power plants, and slightly higher for panels on rooftops. 
 Germany's tariff, 53 cents per kilowatt-hour, is expected to fall at least 15 percent this summer, and there are proposals before Parliament to eliminate subsidies for solar plants on farmland. 
 The bonus payments required to make solar energy financially viable vary, depending on local sunshine and the cost of conventional energy. Experts predict that, possibly by next year, Italy will be the first place where solar-generated electricity will not need subsidies to compete with electricity from fossil fuel. Italy has abundant sun and sky-high energy rates, given that it imports most of its fossil fuel. 
 Even with the reduced incentives and local economic downturn, the solar industry gave Puertollano something of a face-lift and, potentially, a new economic future. Research institutes there are developing cutting-edge technologies. Unemployment, though now up around 10 percent, has not returned to the 20 percent figure. The city is home to a number of solar businesses: a new 50-megawatt thermal-solar plant owned by the Spanish energy giant Iberdrola created hundreds of jobs. 
 Although coal mines still dot the landscape and a petrochemical factory remains one of Puertollano's largest employers, that new solar plant sits just next door, with more than 100,000 parabolic mirrors in neat rows on about 400 acres of former farmland. Clean and white as a hospital ward, it silently turns sunshine into Spanish electricity.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eusebio Saez Mozos, a farmer from El Villar, Spain, near Puertollano, sold a piece of land that was used for a solar installation during Spain's solar industry boom. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LOURDES SEGADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A6) MAP: Puertollano, a mining center, has wooed the solar industry. (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (94%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); COAL MINING (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); RETAILERS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (55%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (62%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CASTILLE-LA MANCHA, SPAIN (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) SPAIN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



226 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Crude Oil and Gasoline Prices Starting to Climb

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Crude oil and gasoline prices are inching up again.
 Optimism about the economy, new tensions in oil-producing Nigeria and reports that China intends to build up its strategic reserves lifted crude prices to around $82 on Monday, about a $10 increase in the last month. 
 Prices at the pump are rising, too, with the average national price for a gallon of gasoline jumping 5 cents in the last week, to just above $2.75. 
 ''That's a drag on the economy,'' said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service, who estimated that consumers were paying just over $1 billion a day at the pump, about $250 million more than this time a year ago. 
 Mr. Kloza predicted that gasoline prices would top $3 a gallon between April and June as warm weather encouraged more driving, before dropping to as low as $2.50 after the summer driving season. ''We're in the fourth or fifth inning of the typical end-of-winter, early spring rise in gasoline prices,'' he added. 
 The energy markets have been relatively stable since early October, with crude prices moving within a narrow range of $70 to $83. That followed years of erratic prices, with oil trading above $147 a barrel in July 2008 and falling below $33 only five months later. 
 Oil prices recovered steadily through most of last year, and peaked in early January at just under $84 a barrel. Some energy analysts say it is possible the price will break that level in the next several days, but there are few reasons to expect the price to rise to anywhere near the 2008 highs. 
 Global crude oil inventories have been slowly declining. But domestic inventories have been climbing and remain well above the five-year average for this time of year. 
 Gasoline supplies also remain ample, but prices at the pump have been rising along with oil prices. The average gallon of regular gas rose nearly a penny, to $2.75 on Monday, up from just over $2.70 a week ago and $2.66 a month ago, according to a report compiled by AAA, the motorists' group. 
 Gasoline prices typically go up in the spring as refiners retool and switch to more expensive summer blends of gasoline. Demand and prices were particularly low this winter because of cold and stormy weather, and experts say they believe many drivers will be keen to take to the highway as spring blooms.
 Still, high unemployment is keeping many commuters off the road, and putting a cap on discretionary driving.
 In early morning trading on Monday, oil prices surged above $82 a barrel, but retreated later to settle at $81.87 a barrel, the highest closing price since Jan. 11.
 ''It remains to be seen whether we can hold $80, since we've failed to hold it five times in the past five months,'' said Addison A. Armstrong, senior director for market research at Tradition Energy, an energy broker in Stamford, Conn. ''Given the low level of demand, gasoline inventories certainly aren't tightening.'' 
 Several international factors, however, are pushing oil prices higher. A Nigerian rebel group recently called off a three-month cease-fire, and attacks on oil production operations have resumed. In recent weeks, oil production in Nigeria has fallen by 85,000 barrels a day, more than 4 percent of normal output. 
 Meanwhile, China is building storage plants to amass emergency reserves while prices remain relatively low, raising expectations that China may import as much as 15 percent more oil this year.
 There is little expectation that OPEC, the producers' cartel, will alter supplies at its meeting later this month. The oil minister for Ecuador, Germanico A. Pinto, who is the current president of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, has said there is no need for members to cut shipments.
 ''If you look at the narrow supply and demand fundamentals, markets would seem to be a little bit ahead of themselves,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, a director of the Energy Policy Research Foundation. ''But if you look at the futures markets out six to 10 months, they are not pricing in exogenous events that are likely to occur, like a hurricane or a crisis involving Iran.'' 
 For the oil industry, higher prices are naturally good news. Industry executives said they would encourage investment in Alaska and the Gulf of Mexico, and offset the impact of low natural gas prices.
 ''It certainly helps the cash flow,'' said Rodney L. Waller, a senior vice president of Range Resources, an oil and gas company in Fort Worth. ''It certainly helps you take the added cash, reinvest and grow your company.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A gasoline delivery in Massachusetts last month. The price of a gallon of gas has risen 5 cents in the last week, AAA reported. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISE AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B5) CHARTS: CRUDE OIL: $80 a barrel (Source: Bloomberg) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (98%); GASOLINE PRICES (95%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) NIGERIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



227 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Bidding War Pits Pfizer And Teva

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
The executives at some generic drug companies have a new catchphrase: There's no place like Ulm. There's no place like Ulm.
 Ulm, a German town on the Danube, is the birthplace of Albert Einstein. But makers of brand-name and generic drugs are mentioning the town now because a three-way bidding war has broken out for Ratiopharm, a leading generic-drug maker with headquarters in Ulm, analysts said.
 The auction is riveting drug makers and analysts because it pits the world's biggest maker of brand-name drugs, the American company Pfizer, against the global leader in generics, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, with headquarters in Israel. Pfizer is said to have bid as much as three billion euros -- or about $4.1 billion -- for Ratiopharm, Bloomberg reported last week, citing two people with knowledge of the talks. Besides Teva, analysts say, the other bidder is Actavis, a generic maker based in Iceland. 
 Actavis has 10,000 employees worldwide and operations in 40 countries. But with global sales of roughly the same level as Ratiopharm and a heavy debt load, Actavis may have the biggest challenge convincing Ratiopharm, which is family-owned, that it would not seek to shrink the company, analysts said. 
 Representatives for Pfizer, Teva and Actavis would not comment on market speculation. Analysts say top executives from Pfizer and Teva recently traveled to Germany to present their proposals to Ratiopharm. Actavis made its presentation Monday, according to news agencies in Europe. 
 For all three companies, Ratiopharm is an attractive target because Germany is the largest generic market in Europe, and Ratiopharm is the second biggest generics purveyor there. Germans spent about 4.9 billion euros on generics in 2008, said Ulrich Huwald, an analyst for M.M. Warburg & Company in Hamburg. 
 Ratiopharm had global sales of 1.9 billion euros in 2008, nearly half of which were in Germany, according to the company's Web site. But Ratiopharm also sells its products in more than 30 other countries, including established markets like Spain and Canada and emerging economies like Russia. Over all, it is the world's fifth-largest maker of generics, accounting for 3 percent of the global market, a report last year from BCC Research said. 
 Royal Bank of Scotland and Commerzbank, both lenders to Ratiopharm's parent company VEM Vermogensverwaltung, are managing the sale of Ratiopharm, said Markus Braun, a spokesman for Ratiopharm. The transaction is expected to be completed this month, but the company would not disclose the names of the bidders, he said. But Ratiopharm is privately held and much about it is not publicly known.
 ''It's clearly the crown jewel in the German generics market. For any interested party, for Europe, it's a megadeal,'' said David M. Steinberg, an analyst with Deutsche Bank. ''How profitable is it? It's hard to know.''
 Teva has been aggressively expanding its global leadership in generics, in part through acquisitions. Two years ago it acquired Barr Pharmaceuticals, an American company, for about $7.5 billion. And Teva has indicated that it planned additional deals. 
 Meanwhile Pfizer, which is based in New York, has been looking beyond its dominant position in brand-name drugs to increase its presence in generics. In 2008 it created a division called the established products business unit to sell medications that have lost their patent protection. And in the last year, Pfizer has signed licensing agreements to distribute more than 200 products from three generic-drug makers based in India. 
 That might help explain Pfizer's interest in Ratiopharm. 
 ''If Pfizer were to end up with that, it would make people look more closely at generics,'' said Christopher T. Schott, an analyst with J.P. Morgan. 
 But other analysts questioned the logic of a Pfizer purchase of Ratiopharm.
 ''What is the strategic rationale for Pfizer to do it?'' said Ronny Gal, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein. ''Maybe they are just trying to stick it to Teva, telling Teva they are not going to get away with this at a lower price.''
 The VEM Group put Ratiopharm on sale last year after the suicide of Adolf Merckle, who founded the company in 1973.
 Last month, the American drug maker Cephalon said it would buy another Merckle family asset, the Swiss generic maker Mepha, for an estimated $590 million.
 In Germany, Ratiopharm is the second-largest generics purveyor, behind Hexal, a part of the Sandoz division of the Swiss drug maker Novartis, but just ahead of another local generic-drug maker, Stada Arzneimittel, analysts said.
 Ratiopharm specializes in drugs for cardiovascular, respiratory, central nervous system and metabolic disorders as well as in anti-infective medications. 
 Pfizer, Teva and Actavis each has its own reasons to be interested in Ratiopharm, analysts said.
 In a note to investors last week titled ''Why Ratiopharm makes sense,'' David Risinger of Morgan Stanley wrote that such a deal would help Pfizer move its blockbuster drugs into global generics channels when the patents on those drugs expire -- as well as helping the American company expand its presence in emerging markets. 
 Buying Ratiopharm would allow Teva to immediately own a major share of the German market, Mr. Steinberg of Deutsche Bank said.
 ''They have the explicit goal of being among the top three in every country,'' he said. Teva is among the top three generic companies in every major Western European country, he said, except Germany.
 Another motivation may be that Teva and Pfizer are accumulating cash that might yield more through acquisitions, said Mr. Gal of Sanford Bernstein.
 ''It is making 0.5 percent interest in the bank,'' he said of Pfizer. ''Why not buy generics?''
 Meanwhile, Deutsche Bank, an Actavis creditor, is said to be financing Actavis's bid for Ratiopharm, Mr. Huwald of M.M. Warburg said.
 ''Actavis is in a high-debt position,'' he said. ''Is Actavis more driven by Actavis, or by Deutsche Bank, which is interested in improving the strategic position of Actavis by buying Ratiopharm?'' 
 Analysts are already speculating about what will happen after the Ratiopharm sale. Will a losing bidder make a play for Stada, a publicly traded company with a market capitalization of about $2.3 billion with headquarters in the mineral spring town of Bad Vilbel, Germany?
 ''Three big sharks want to gain market share in Germany, and two will not be rewarded,'' Mr. Huwald said. ''The highest probability is that the bidder for Stada would be Pfizer.''
 There's no place like Bad Vilbel.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ratiopharm, a family-owned company in Ulm, Germany, is a leading maker of generic drugs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GUENTER SCHIFFMANN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); GENERIC DRUGS (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); FAMILY (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (92%); ACTAVIS GROUP HF (92%); RATIOPHARM INTERNATIONAL GMBH (92%); ACTAVIS INC (92%); TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (70%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (63%); M M WARBURG & CO AT JPP EUROSECURITIES INC (53%); M M WARBURG & CO LUXEMBOURG SA (53%); M M WARBURG & CO KGAA (53%); M M WARBURG & CO HYPOTHEKENBANK AG (53%); M M WARBURG & CO FONDS-VERTRIEB (53%); COMMERZBANK AG (51%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (50%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFEB (BRU) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%); ACT (NYSE) (92%); TEVA (TASE) (70%); TEVA (NYSE) (70%); RBS (NYSE) (63%); RBS (LSE) (63%); RBS (AMS) (63%); CZB (LSE) (51%); CBK (FRA) (51%); DEUT (JSE) (50%); DBK (FRA) (50%); DBK (BIT) (50%); DBETN (JSE) (50%); DBA (ASX) (50%); DB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (63%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (53%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (53%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ICELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



228 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Healthy Solution: Taxing Sodas

 BODY:
Seldom does one idea help fix two important problems, but a proposal to tax sugary soft drinks in New York State is just that sort of 2-for-1 solution. The penny-per-ounce tax on sodas and other sweetened drinks is a way to raise desperately needed money for the city and state in a bad economy. It also could help lower obesity rates, which have soared in recent years. 
 The Legislature in Albany should adopt this tax quickly.
 Gov. David Paterson dropped a proposed tax on sodas last year in the face of industry opposition, and lobbyists for soda companies are already denouncing the new proposal as unfair to lower-income families struggling through a recession.
 It is time for Albany's lawmakers to stand firm against the soft-drink lobby. Their claim to be standing up for New York's poorest residents obscures the fact that those same people are their customers of choice. Poorer people, who lack healthy food choices, too often overload on sugar-laden soft drinks. Even though soft drinks are not the only cause of obesity, people in lower-income areas tend to suffer more from obesity, diabetes and other obesity-related illnesses. 
 The costs of health care for these illnesses are rising steadily. State budget analysts estimate that obesity-related problems cost the state an estimated $7.6 billion annually. This tax could bring in about $1 billion a year to help with those costs. The soda tax is supported by most health professionals across the state. The idea also got an important endorsement this week from Mayor Michael Bloomberg of New York City, who said it could ''make a major dent in obesity.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg compared the tax on sodas to the steep taxes on cigarettes, which helped discourage many people from smoking. He estimated that the soda tax could cut consumption by 10 percent. 
 If those arguments are not enough to shake lawmakers out of their torpor, they should consider this: If they pass the soda tax, they can lay claim to having done something constructive this year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS (92%); OBESITY (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); OBESITY RELATED DISEASES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (76%); NUTRITION (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); FAMILY (71%); SMOKING (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); DIABETES (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



229 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: So Where's Consumer Protection?

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
If six of the biggest banking industry lobbying groups are in perfect lockstep on an issue, do they most likely have the best interests of consumers at heart?
 No, that's not a trick question.
 The American Bankers Association and its lobbying brethren, including the Financial Services Roundtable, sent a letter last week around Capitol Hill pressing their case that the Federal Reserve should supervise them.
 Last night, they seemed to have lost part of that battle as senators tentatively agreed to limit the Fed's regulatory power over just the biggest banks. 
 Left unresolved is the much-debated consumer protection agency, which many in the industry also hoped would end up under the Fed's purview.
 Their preference for the Fed in itself raises a question about its ability to regulate the banks for the benefit of the system and consumers.
 So the questions are these: Should a consumer protection agency have true independence -- in effect, its own street address -- as many Democrats believe it should, so that it has real power to act on its own? Or should it be given the equivalent of a room in the basement of the Fed, next to the janitor's closet -- as the bankers themselves and many Republicans would prefer?
 That the debate has devolved into an issue of location, location, location is yet another reminder of how the urgency of the financial crisis now feels like a mud-slog. 
 Later this week, Christopher J. Dodd, chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, is expected to finally unveil the Senate's version of a financial reform bill. 
 It may address some of the big-ticket items that are supposed to avoid another financial fiasco on a global scale -- like higher capital requirements for banks to reduce risk, some version of a resolution authority to wind down failing investments banks (like Lehman Brothers) and insurance giants (like A.I.G.), and perhaps a say-on-pay plan. 
 But the fate of the proposed consumer protection agency remains the biggest question mark.
 The Obama administration first proposed the idea of an independent watchdog for consumers to safeguard the citizenry from predatory lenders and fine print.
 Its impact would be limited, truth be told. It would do virtually nothing to change the undergirding of Wall Street and its risky products, like derivatives, that helped put the system at risk.
 Worse, at least according to the latest reports about drafts of the bill, the agency may not have any oversight of nonbank mortgage companies, which were largely responsible for some of the worst subprime loans to people who could not afford them.
 Nonetheless, it is hard to argue against the notion of consumer protection. Democrats have made the agency a requirement of any reform legislation. Republicans have argued that it is unnecessary given that regulators already have the power over banks' behavior (even though regulators didn't use those powers when they needed to).
 So the debate has turned to this question of who should run this agency. The Democrats want it to be run independently (though Mr. Dodd thinks the Treasury would be best if he had no other choice). 
 Republicans and most of the banks want it inside Federal Reserve, where they say it will be free of political influence (though Senator Richard Shelby has suggested the F.D.I.C. as an alternative).
 ''We haven't seen the details yet, but believe that consumer protection and bank supervision should be housed under the same roof,'' said Scott Talbott, senior vice president for government affairs for the Financial Services Roundtable. ''Just as bank regulators with a myopic focus on safety and soundness didn't work, a consumer regulator that doesn't consider the bank, is not the most effective way.'' (Put another way: one regulator is enough.)
 Edward L. Yingling, president of the American Bankers Association, differs somewhat with Mr. Talbott. He says, ''We don't care where you put it,'' adding that their position has always been ''we're totally against it.''
 Word is that Mr. Dodd's reform proposal, which seems to get more watered down by the day, may end up making the agency part of the Fed as part of a compromise, an idea that has Congressman Barney Frank up in arms. 
 ''After all the Fed bashing we've heard? The Fed's such a weak engine, so let's give them consumer protection? It's almost a bad joke,'' Mr. Frank told Politico last week.
 In fairness, if everyone were to agree that the agency is not going to be independent, the Federal Reserve may be the best place for it, given that it is one of the few places in Washington with an understanding of the banking system and markets. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission would seem a natural place for a consumer protection group because part of its mission is, ostensibly, to protect consumers in the stock market. But its recent track record -- think Madoff -- is not exactly stellar.
 What's so interesting about the battle over the proposed consumer protection agency is that Republicans have painted the Obama administration as being in the tank with Wall Street. 
 But now they are the ones that seem to be helping Wall Street this time around. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher Dodd, head of the Senate banking committee.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LOBBYING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (85%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); FAIR LENDING (64%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL SERVICES ROUNDTABLE (58%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS813910 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (58%); SIC8611 BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS (58%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



230 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 GATES VISITS AFGHANISTAN 
 To Review Plan for Offensive
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates met in Kabul, Afghanistan, with President Hamid Karzai and Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal to review plans for a major American-led offensive in Kandahar, the spiritual heart and birthplace of the Taliban. PAGE A10
 TRACKING PROGRESS IN KENYA 
 In the last five years, life in Sauri, a bushy little patch of western Kenya that has seen a flood of aid, has improved markedly. Agricultural yields have doubled; child mortality has dropped by 30 percent; school attendance has shot up and so have test scores. But many proponents of economic development wonder whether Sauri's progress can be replicated. PAGE A9
 National
 JUDGE ALLOWS NEW TRIAL 
 In New Orleans Murders
 A judge in New Orleans granted a new trial for a man who was convicted last summer of killing five people in 2006. The shooting deaths galvanized the city, which at the time was less than a year into its recovery from Hurricane Katrina. PAGE A11
 MORE DISSENTS FROM BENCH
 A few times a year, Supreme Court justices go out of their way to emphasize their unhappiness by reading a dissent from the bench out loud, supplementing the dry reason on the page with vivid tones of disdain. The practice is on the rise, and it is suggestive of an increasingly polarized court. Adam Liptak, Sidebar. PAGE A11
 New York
 EMBATTLED CONGRESSMAN 
 Says Party Drove Him Out
 Representative Eric J. Massa, a Democrat from upstate New York, accused of sexually harassing a male aide, charged in a radio interview that Democratic Party leaders were behind an effort to drive him out of office. PAGE A20
 PATERSON FINDS SUPPORT
 As Gov. David A. Paterson faces accusations that threaten to drive him out of office, he found at a town hall meeting in Brooklyn on the state budget that quite a few people wanted him to hang in. PAGE A20
 Business
 SENATE TO INVESTIGATE DEATHS 
 At Long-Term Care Facilities
 The Senate Finance Committee has opened an investigation into patient deaths and allegations of substandard treatment at long-term care hospitals, small specialty medical centers that treat chronically ill patients. PAGE B1
 COMPETING FOR RATIOPHARM
 A three-way bidding war for Ratiopharm, a leading maker of generic drugs, has riveted the pharmaceutical world because it pits Pfizer, the world's biggest maker of brand-name drugs, against Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, the global leader in generics. PAGE B1
 CRUDE OIL PRICES CLIMB
 Optimism about the economy, tensions in oil-producing Nigeria and reports that China intends to build up its strategic reserves lifted crude prices about $10 in the last month. PAGE B1
 Arts
 BOOK'S WITHDRAWAL PROMPTS
 Rethinking of Good Faith
 Last week Henry Holt & Company stopped printing and selling ''The Last Train From Hiroshima'' because its author had relied on a fraudulent source for the book. This is not the first time a publisher has been humiliated by an author's unverified work, but in many recent cases publishers did not seem to ask basic questions of authors, accepting their versions on almost blind faith. PAGE C1
 LIVES SCARRED BY WAR
 Chang-rae Lee's new novel, ''The Surrendered,'' is set in the chaos of the Korean War, and Michiko Kakutani writes that Mr. Lee chronicles these cruel, heartbreaking events of war with harrowing, cinematic immediacy. PAGE C1
 Sports
 DOCTOR UNDER INVESTIGATION
 Says He Treated Rodriguez
 A doctor under investigation for possibly smuggling drugs into the United States said that he treated Alex Rodriguez last year. If true, Rodriguez could be in violation of his contract with the Yankees because the team never authorized Rodriguez to be treated by the doctor. PAGE B12
 BIG EAST'S BIG SPENDERS
 A subject lingering in the background of the Big East tournament is how the financial investment of the league's programs is seemingly tied to their success, with the biggest spenders producing the best records. PAGE B12
 Science Times
 IN ENRICHING URANIUM, 
 The Difficulty Diminishes
 In the Iranian desert, at a sprawling industrial site ringed by antiaircraft guns, a shift in the enrichment of uranium is producing global jitters because it could shorten Iran's path to the acquisition of nuclear weapons. It is also illustrating one of the peculiarities of uranium enrichment: the tricky process accelerates as it moves ahead. PAGE D1
 Op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (85%); OIL & GAS PRICES (83%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); SHOOTINGS (75%); MURDER (75%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (74%); HOMICIDE (74%); JUDGES (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (71%); HURRICANES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); GENERIC DRUGS (68%); SEX OFFENSES (68%); HEALTH CARE (66%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (66%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (66%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (64%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (64%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (63%); CHRONIC DISEASES (61%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (62%); PFIZER INC (51%); HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (50%)

TICKER: TEVA (TASE) (62%); TEVA (NYSE) (62%); PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFEB (BRU) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (62%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (62%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (90%); HAMAD KARZAI (73%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (73%); DAVID PATERSON (50%); ERIC MASSA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); KENYA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



231 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: The Source of Obama's Trouble

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The Obama administration and Democrats in general are in trouble because they are not urgently and effectively addressing the issue that most Americans want them to: the frightening economic insecurity that has put a chokehold on millions of American families. 
 The economy shed 36,000 jobs last month, and that was trumpeted in the press as good news. Well, after your house has burned down I suppose it's good news that the flames may finally be flickering out. But once you realize that it will take 11 million or more new jobs to get us back to where we were when the recession began, you begin to understand that we're not really making any headway at all. 
 It's also widely known by now that the official employment statistics drastically understate the problem. Once we take off the statistical rose-colored glasses, we're left with the awful reality of millions upon millions of Americans who have lost -- or are losing -- their jobs, their homes, their small businesses, and their hopes for a brighter future.
 Instead of focusing with unwavering intensity on this increasingly tragic situation, making it their top domestic priority, President Obama and the Democrats on Capitol Hill have spent astonishing amounts of time and energy, and most of their political capital, on an obsessive quest to pass a health care bill.
 Health care reform is important. But what the public has wanted and still badly needs above all else from Mr. Obama and the Democrats are bold efforts to put people back to work. A major employment rebound is the only real way to alleviate the deep economic anxiety that has gripped so many Americans. Unaddressed, that anxiety inevitably evolves into dread and then anger. 
 But while the nation is desperate for jobs, jobs, jobs, the Democrats have spent most of the Obama era chanting health care, health care, health care. 
 The talk inside the Beltway, that super-incestuous, egomaniacal, reality-free zone, is that President Obama and the Democrats have a messaging or public relations problem. We're being told -- and even worse, Mr. Obama and the Democrats are being told -- that their narrative is not getting through. In other words, the wonderfulness of all that they've done is somehow not being recognized by the slow-to-catch-on masses. 
 That's just silly. People are upset because they are mired in economic distress and are losing faith that their elected representatives are looking out for their best interests. They've watched with increasing anger as their government has been hijacked by the economic elite. They know that the big banks that were bailed out by taxpayers can borrow money at an interest rate of near zero while at the same time charging credit-card holders usurious rates of 20 to 30 percent.
 They know that the financial fat cats are fighting the creation of a truly independent Consumer Financial Protection Agency. They know that while ordinary Americans are kept out of the corridors of power, the elites with their lobbyists and lawyers and campaign contributions have a voice in every important decision that is made.
 It's not the message that's a problem for Mr. Obama and the Democrats, it's the all-too-clear reality. People know that the government that is supposed to be looking out for ordinary people -- for working people and the poor -- is not doing nearly enough about an employment crisis that is lowering standards of living and hollowing out the American dream.
 This is not just a short-term crisis. There are many communities across the country in which the effective jobless rate is higher than 50 percent. Many state and local governments are grappling with disastrous revenue shortfalls that are forcing cuts in services and layoffs, and threatening the viability of even a modest national economic recovery.
 A University of Michigan survey of consumer sentiment in February found that 60 percent of American consumers expect to receive no income gains at all in the year ahead, the worst finding in that category in the history of the surveys.
 The Republican Party has nothing in the way of solutions to Americans' economic plight. It is committed only to the demented policy of trying to ensure that President Obama and the Democrats fail. 
 But the fact that the Republicans are pathetic and destructive is no reason for the Democrats to shirk their obligation to fight powerfully and relentlessly for the economic well-being of all Americans. There are now six people in the employment market for every available job. There is a staggering backlog of discouraged workers who would show up tomorrow if there were a job to be had.
 The many millions of new jobs needed to make a real dent in the employment crisis are not going to materialize by themselves. Mr. Obama and the Democrats don't seem to understand that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); STATISTICS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



232 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Greece Fumes at Speculators, and Backs a New Monetary Fund

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN and JACK EWING; Sewell Chan reported from Washington and Jack Ewing from Frankfurt. Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting from Paris and Stephen Castle from Brussels.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Greek prime minister called on Monday for the United States and the European Union to crack down on speculative trading, arguing that exotic bets had driven up Greece's borrowing costs and threatened its effort to ease its debt crisis.
 The prime minister, George A. Papandreou, said in an interview that he would not rule out turning to the International Monetary Fund for assistance. But he expressed hope that such aid, which would be unprecedented in the euro zone, would be unnecessary. 
 Also on Monday, the European Commission, which has been wary of I.M.F. involvement, endorsed a German proposal for a European monetary fund to head off future debt crises, though details remained vague. Any such plan would face political and legal impediments, and would arrive too late to help Greece even if all European Union members agreed to it, analysts said. 
 During a speech at the Brookings Institution, Mr. Papandreou outlined Greece's new austerity measures and spoke about the need for a global overhaul of financial regulations. Later on Monday, Mr. Papandreou met with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. On Tuesday, he is to meet with President Obama.
 Mr. Papandreou said his recent meetings with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France showed that ''there is a will for creating some ad hoc mechanism'' that would help the country borrow at reasonable costs. 
 While Greece successfully sold 5 billion euros in bonds last week, it has about 20 billion euros' worth of debt maturing in April and May. 
 ''We haven't asked for money,'' Mr. Papandreou said in the interview. ''We haven't asked for a bailout.'' 
 Mr. Papandreou said the concept of a European monetary fund had merit. ''The more there is a European solution to a theoretical, but possible, problem in the markets, the less we will have to talk about an I.M.F. solution,'' he said.
 But Jean Pisani-Ferry, director of Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels, said it would not be easy to establish such a fund. ''It has to go through the whole ratification procedure,'' he said. ''Even in the simplest hypothesis it's not trivial.'' 
 Impetus for the fund came from the German finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, who told the German newspaper Welt am Sonntag, in an interview published Sunday, that the countries that use the euro needed an institution with ''similar powers to intervene'' as the I.M.F.
 The European Commission, the executive agency of the European Union, quickly endorsed the idea. 
 ''The commission is ready to propose such a European instrument for assistance, which would require the support of all euro-area member states,'' Amadeu Altafaj Tardio, a spokesman for the commission, told reporters in Brussels. ''Things are moving very quickly.'' 
 Finance ministers will discuss the plan at their regular meeting next Monday.
 The fund proposal, which Ms. Merkel has not yet formally endorsed, would be a shift for Germany, which has resisted providing assistance to countries that get in fiscal trouble because of unsound policies. 
 But German leaders have concluded that more cooperation is preferable to intervention by the I.M.F. Although French officials appeared to be surprised by the speed of the proposal, they said they supported it in principle. (One unspoken reason might be the rivalry between Mr. Sarkozy and Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the I.M.F. chief and a former French finance minister.)
 Daniel Gros, director of the Center for European Policy Studies, said German leaders wanted to make sure that the Greek people understood what deep sacrifices would be needed. 
 ''They cannot get out of this without a very deep recession under the best of circumstances,'' Mr. Gros said. ''If they just start screaming when they see the dentist's drill, they are lost.'' 
 Mr. Gros and Thomas Mayer, chief economist at Deutsche Bank, had proposed a fund with ability to lend money to ailing euro members or guarantee their bonds, as well as impose sanctions or cut off other forms of aid. If a government were in imminent danger of default, the fund would have the power to issue replacement debt. But it would impose a so-called haircut on investors, who would receive only a fraction of the government bonds' face value. 
 Mr. Papandreou used the first full day of his visit to the United States to attack traders who had driven up Greece's borrowing costs. 
 ''Despite the deep reforms we are making, traders and speculators have forced interest rates on Greek bonds to record highs,'' Mr. Papandreou said in his speech. 
 Mr. Papandreou, who took office in October, said Greece faced ''a credibility deficit as a result of the fabricated budget figures our predecessors had published.'' 
 He described plans to sharply reduce the country's deficit, shrink public sector salaries, raise the retirement age and increase taxes. He vowed to curb tax evasion, saying that fewer than 5,000 Greeks declare annual incomes of 100,000 euros or more. And he promised to crack down on corruption and increase transparency.
 Mr. Papandreou also called for patience. ''Countries are not like financial markets,'' he said. ''Social change cannot be executed as swiftly as credit-default swaps. You cannot sell short on social commitments and practical responsibilities.''
 Credit-default swaps were also largely blamed for the financial crisis that swept the world in 2008.
 Mrs. Clinton, at a news briefing with Mr. Papandreou, called for tighter regulation of ''these financial instruments that have been used to the detriment not only of Greece but of other countries, including our own.''
 Also on Monday, Mario Draghi, the chairman of the Financial Stability Board, a group of global regulators, said there was ''a strong uneasiness'' about ''the sense that bets can be placed on any institution, be it government, be it a company.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister George A. Papandreou of Greece at the Brookings Institution in Washington (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EURO (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE PAPANDREOU (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); ANGELA MERKEL (54%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); GREECE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); BELGIUM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010



233 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2010

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Energy Department Defends Funding of Foreign-Owned Renewables Projects


HIGHLIGHT: The Energy Department last week defended its distribution of stimulus funding to some foreign developers of renewable energy projects, saying the grants were creating American jobs. 

 BODY:
Amid mounting criticism, the Energy Department last week defended its allocation of stimulus funding to foreign companies developing renewable energy projects in the United States.
Matt Rogers, the senior adviser to the energy secretary, told the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources on Thursday that 100 percent of the $2.6 billion it gave out through the renewable energy grant program included in last year's economic recovery plan went to fund American projects and that the $2.3 billion in tax credits it provided for 183 clean energy manufacturing projects in 43 states will generate more than 17,000 jobs.
A day earlier, four senators, led by Senator Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat of New York, called on the Obama administration to halt spending on a renewable energy program in the economic stimulus package until there were rules to assure that the projects use predominantly American labor and materials.
But at the hearing Thursday, Mr. Rogers said it is probably true that nearly 80 percent of the companies that received grants were based abroad, as cited in a recent analysis by the Investigative Reporting Workshop, a nonprofit journalism program affiliated with American University. But the funding, together with the manufacturing tax credits, resulted in $10 billion of foreign investment in the United States over the last year, Mr. Rogers said.
"When Nissan builds an auto factory in Smyrna, Tenn., we're really excited about that because that's jobs for American workers," he said. "Frankly, we don't care where the headquarters are, what we want are the jobs here."
Mr. Rogers also told the committee that an assertion made by the author of the American University analysis - that stimulus funding for wind energy projects had generated some 6,000 jobs overseas, and "maybe a couple hundred" in the United States - was "factually false."
Asked to comment on news of a joint venture between American and Chinese companies to build a wind farm in Texas with the help of stimulus funds, Mr. Rogers said, "There is no Texas wind project other than on a press release. Until we have a project, we have nothing that we can actually evaluate."
He further warned that an immediate halt in stimulus spending on renewable energy projects could create market uncertainly and lead to layoffs of recently hired workers at American factories producing wind turbines, for example.
"This is a program that's working," he explained. "What we need to do is build more manufacturing capacity."
Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, asked Mr. Rogers to explain what the agency was doing to expand capacity - and to ensure companies that were "developing the complete package here in the United States" were given priority.
"I'll never forget the president going to England and presenting to the queen a great American ingenuity, the iPod - developed in America, made in China," Senator Stabenow said. "We don't want that to happen with clean energy."
Mr. Rogers said the agency was looking at ways to increase the likelihood that homegrown innovations were manufactured in the United States and that there was sufficient supply to meet demand domestically.
"If we're going to be successful on a global basis," he said, "we have to think about that whole value chain together."

        
Senate Blocks End to Ethanol Subsidies
        
On Our Radar: Global Freezing, or Warming?
        
End Ethanol Subsidies, Senators Say
        
A Bipartisan Bill on Renewable Energy
        
Fannie and Freddie Are Sued in California

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (94%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (91%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); JOURNALISM (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); PLANT CAPACITY (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); WRITERS (66%); JOINT VENTURES (50%) american university; renewable energy; schumer; Senate; stimulus funding; Alternative Energy; Commerce; Conventional Energy; Energy Business; Energy Economics; Energy Politics; Environmental Politics; General Business; Government Policy; The Environment

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (72%); DEBBIE STABENOW (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%); ENGLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2012



234 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: Airport Built, It's Time to See if the Traffic Comes

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
The first new international airport in the United States in more than decade is set to open in May near Panama City, Fla., a community of 37,000 people on the state's panhandle. That is no small feat given the environmental, regulatory and financial hurdles involved in building runways and terminals, as well as community opposition to planes flying overhead.
 But the airport, Northwest FloridaBeaches International, is also noteworthy because it is perhaps more of a real estate project than an effort to address a pressing transportation problem. Backed by a major Florida landowner, it is part of a plan to create ''a new national and international destination,'' as one investor presentation proclaims, in a relatively sleepy region of beaches, barrier islands and wetlands.
 ''Silicon Valley at one point was out in the middle of nowhere,'' said Britt Greene, president and chief executive of the St. Joe Company, the Florida developer that donated the land for the new airport and is the driving force behind the project. ''We think we can do the same.'' 
 St. Joe, once primarily a timber and paper company, has shifted to development and real estate, and owns hundreds of thousands of acres of land in northwest Florida. The airport property, northwest of Panama City, occupies just a fraction of the company's 75,000-acre West Bay sector plan, which envisions 27,000 residential units, 490 hotel rooms, 2 marinas and 37 million square feet of commercial space that would bring tourists and entrepreneurs to the panhandle.
 The existing Panama City-Bay County International Airport handles 11 departures a day, with about 160,000 departing passengers a year. Projections sketched out by the airport authority years ago anticipated that a new airport with a longer runway would entice airlines to schedule bigger planes that would nearly triple that passenger number by 2018 -- including some international flights.
 Regulatory hurdles were cleared, legal challenges from environmental groups were overcome and construction began in January 2008. Then the economy collapsed, casting the airport project in a different financial context.
 Critics argue that there was never a need for a new airport -- especially one that will cost more than $300 million -- and that construction problems have caused the environmental damage they had predicted.
 Proponents counter that the airport is a long-term bet on northwest Florida's future, and that competing to attract businesses and tourists requires a transportation infrastructure that better connects the panhandle with the rest of the world. The airport will have space for customs and immigration facilities and runways long enough to handle any eventual overseas flights.
 It may be years before anyone finds out which viewpoint is right. But in the meantime, both sides can point to evidence that bolsters their version of events.
 St. Joe and the airport authority scored a coup late last year when they persuaded Southwest Airlines to begin flying to Panama City through a deal that ensures the carrier will not lose money on the service for three years.
 Starting May 23, Southwest will operate two daily nonstop flights to Baltimore, Houston, Nashville and Orlando. Delta now flies to Panama City from Atlanta and Memphis, relying on regional partners to operate the flights. 
 ''Our job, and our challenge, is to build a market -- a market that heretofore has not existed,'' said Bob Montgomery, vice president for properties at Southwest. He said the routes were chosen based on research that residents in those markets have second homes near Panama City, which they would visit more often if they could take affordable flights rather than drive.
 The Baltimore route would link military personnel and contractors in the Washington area with installations near Panama City, like Eglin Air Force Base, which fits St. Joe's strategy to attract aerospace companies to the Panhandle.
 But Southwest's arrangement -- a first for the low-fare carrier -- means it is hedging its bet on the region and can pull out if the routes do not prove to be profitable. ''We weren't in the position to take a huge amount of risk ourselves,'' Mr. Montgomery said.
 Mr. Greene, of the St. Joe Company, said the Southwest deal was well worth the passengers he expects the airline will bring to the area, visitors who will fill hotel rooms, shop at stores and possibly buy second homes in developments his company has planned or has already built. 
 ''Tourism will grow as a result of Southwest connecting us to the rest of the nation,'' he said. ''Our new dominant strategy is economic development and job growth.''
 Not everyone in the community believes that vision will pan out. Among the most vocal of those skeptics is Don Hodges, a retiree who worked in airport development for Delta for decades and describes himself as ''not an opponent, but certainly a vocal critic'' of the way the new airport has been handled.
 ''It's been oversold, underdesigned, undermanaged and now botched as a construction project,'' said Mr. Hodges, who lives in Bay County. ''They've got layers of construction experts who have not been able to deliver on what layers of planning experts promised.''
 Mr. Hodges has raised his objections in detailed posts on his blog and on various news sites, mostly taking issue with the need for a new airport but also documenting environmental damage that has occurred during construction. Much of the land where the airport is being built is wetlands, with creeks flowing nearby, and heavy rains have caused flooding on the property and storm water breaches that have muddied the waterways, leading to fines of more than $350,000 from the Florida Department of Environmental Protection.
 That possibility was why the Natural Resources Defense Council filed two lawsuits to block the project, though the group lost those legal challenges.
 ''Unfortunately, a lot of what we were concerned about has come to pass,'' said Benjamin Longstreth, a senior lawyer with the council. ''Filling all these wetlands we thought and continue to think really jeopardizes the health of the ecosystem in West Bay -- for an airport that was entirely unnecessary.''
 Randy Curtis, the airport's executive director, disputed the idea that the old airport could have been modified to accommodate larger planes, citing residential neighborhoods and the nearby bay as barriers to extending the existing runway. The new airport will have a 10,000-foot runway, longer than the two 7,000-foot runways at LaGuardia Airport in New York.
 Mr. Curtis acknowledged that managing storm water was the airport's biggest challenge, but said that once the system for filtering and treating storm water was finished it would exceed regulatory requirements.
 ''Once the airport is completed and constructed, you'll actually have a net environmental improvement in the area,'' he said, referring to the conservation easement St. Joe agreed to in order to mitigate the effects of building the airport on wetlands.
 As part of its West Bay sector plan, the St. Joe Company promised to set aside 41,000 acres as a nature preserve, though environmental groups note that so far only 10,000 acres have been legally given this status, leaving the remaining parcel's fate uncertain. 
 ''What we had wanted them to do was create a written document where they legally put the land in a conservation trust though an easement,'' Mr. Longstreth said. ''They also could give it to an entity like the Nature Conservancy, but none of that has been done. It's simply protected by the creation of a county plan that could be changed at any point.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport in Panama City, planned when the economy was better, is scheduled to open May 23. Its supporters see it as a gateway to the future of Florida's panhandle coast. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WALLHEISER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); IMMIGRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); WETLANDS (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (71%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%)

COMPANY: ST JOE CO (84%)

TICKER: JOE (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (84%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (71%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



235 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Christie's Wins Bid to Auction $150 Million Brody Collection

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
After a four-month battle between the auction giants Sotheby's and Christie's, the art collection of the Los Angeles philanthropist Frances Lasker Brody will be sold at Christie's in New York in May. Valued at well over $150 million, it includes a 1932 painting by Picasso that is considered a seminal work from one of the high points of that artist's career. Also coming to auction are rare examples by Giacometti, Matisse and Braque. 
 Christie's was able to wrest the collection from Sotheby's by offering the estate a guarantee, an undisclosed sum promised to the sellers regardless of the outcome of the sale. Since the economy tanked in 2008, the auction houses have for the most part stopped offering sellers such financial incentives. It is believed that a third party has helped finance this guarantee. 
 Because Mrs. Brody was passionate about gardens, some of the sale's proceeds are to go to the Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens in San Marino, Calif., where she was on the board of overseers. 
 Mrs. Brody, who died in November at 93, was the wife of Sidney F. Brody, a real estate developer who died in 1983, and the stepdaughter of Mary Lasker, a philanthropist and champion of medical research who died in 1994. The Brodys lived in a modernist house in the Holmby Hills neighborhood of Los Angeles that was designed by the architect A. Quincy Jones and the decorator William Haines to show off the couple's collection. Matisse created a 12-by-11-foot ceramic-tile mural for their courtyard that is being donated to the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. 
 ''While this is the last gasp of collecting of this type, it is a little tougher-edged than the Park Avenue collections that were put together at the same time,'' said Christopher Burge, honorary chairman of Christie's in America. 
 The Picasso, ''Nu au Plateau de Sculpteur (Nude, Green Leaves and Bust),'' is the jewel of the collection and is expected to bring more than $80 million. Painted in rich blues, pinks and greens, it depicts the artist's mistress Marie-Therese Walter asleep naked; above her, a bust of her head rests on a pedestal. The couple bought the painting from Paul Rosenberg, a New York dealer, who acquired it from Picasso in 1936. 
 Picasso painted several canvases of Marie-Therese Walter that year, including ''Le Reve,'' (''The Dream''), which belongs to the casino owner Stephen A. Wynn. In 2006, Mr. Wynn had agreed to sell the painting to the hedge fund billionaire Steven A. Cohen for $135 million, until Mr. Wynn accidentally put his elbow through the painting, leaving a sizable hole that has since been repaired, and Mr. Cohen backed out of the sale. 
 Another highlight of the Brody collection is ''Grande Tete de Diego,'' a bust of Giacometti's brother conceived in 1954 that is expected to bring $25 million to $35 million. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jewel of the collection: Christie's is expected to sell Picasso's ''Nu au Plateau de Sculpteur (Nude, Green Leaves and Bust)'' for more than $80 million.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (68%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (53%); CASINOS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: CHRISTIE'S INTERNATIONAL PLC (92%); SOTHEBY'S (92%)

TICKER: BID (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5999 MISCELLANEOUS RETAIL STORES, NEC (92%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%); SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (92%)

PERSON: STEPHEN A WYNN (64%); STEVEN COHEN (58%); STEVEN A COHEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SAN MARINO, SAN MARINO (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



236 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Many Nations Passing U.S. In Education, Expert Says

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
One of the world's foremost experts on comparing national school systems told lawmakers on Tuesday that many other countries were surpassing the United States in educational attainment, including Canada, where he said 15-year-old students were, on average, more than one school year ahead of American 15-year-olds.
 America's education advantage, unrivaled in the years after World War II, is eroding quickly as a greater proportion of students in more and more countries graduate from high school and college and score higher on achievement tests than students in the United States, said Andreas Schleicher, a senior education official at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, which helps coordinate policies for 30 of the world's richest countries. 
 ''Among O.E.C.D. countries, only New Zealand, Spain, Turkey and Mexico now have lower high school completion rates than the U.S.,'' Mr. Schleicher said. About 7 in 10 American students get a high school diploma.
 Mr. Schleicher's comments came in testimony before the Senate education committee and in a statement he delivered. The panel plans to rewrite the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, the main law governing federal policy on public schools. 
 The committee also heard from Dennis Van Roekel, president of the National Education Association, the largest teachers' union; John Castellani, president of the Business Roundtable, a group that represents corporate executives; and Charles Butt, chief executive of a supermarket chain in Texas, who said employers there faced increasing difficulties in hiring qualified young workers.
 The blame for America's sagging academic achievement does not lie solely with public schools, Mr. Butt said, but also with dysfunctional families and a culture that undervalues education. ''Schools are inheriting an overentertained, distracted student,'' he said.
 Senator Tom Harkin, the Iowa Democrat who leads the Senate Committee, picked up on that comment. ''Overentertained and distracted -- that's right,'' Mr. Harkin said. ''The problem lies with many kids before they get to school, and if we don't crack that nut, we're going to continue to patch and fill.''
 Mr. Schleicher based many of his international comparisons on data from the O.E.C.D. Program for International Student Assessment, which tests students in scores of countries every three years in math, reading or science.
 He said Finland had the world's ''best performing education system,'' partly because of its highly effective way of recruiting, training and supporting teachers. 
 South Korea, he said, which was in economic ruin after World War II, today is an economic dynamo partly because of its educational attainment, which, among other measures, has achieved a 96 percent high school graduation rate, the world's highest.
 Poland, Mr. Schleicher said, is improving its education system most rapidly. In less than a decade, it raised the literacy skills of its 15-year-olds by the equivalent of almost a school year. ''If the U.S. would raise the performance of schools by a similar amount,'' he said, ''that could translate into a long-term economic value of over 40 trillion dollars.''
 America's system of standards, curriculums and testing controlled by states and local districts with a heavy overlay of federal rules is a ''quite unique'' mix of decentralization and central control, Mr. Schleicher said. More successful nations, he said, maintain central control over standards and curriculum, but give local schools more freedom from regulation, he said.
 ''The question for the U.S. is not just how many charter schools it establishes,'' he said, ''but how to build the capacity for all schools to assume charter-like autonomy, as happens in some of the best-performing education systems.''
 ''In one way, international education benchmarks make disappointing reading for the U.S.,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); GRADUATION RATES (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); TEACHER UNIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (57%); BUSINESS ROUNDTABLE (54%); NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: CHARLES BUTT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



237 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: In Illinois, Democrats Widen the Net

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- This place is desperate to shed its political reputation for cronyism, insiders and backroom deals, a way of life once boiled down by a ward boss this way: ''We don't want nobody nobody sent.''
 And so, when the Democrats' duly elected nominee for lieutenant governor resigned last month amid questions over a domestic battery charge, unpaid child support and steroid use, the state's Democratic Party announced it would replace him in a new, un-Chicago way. 
 Anyone can apply. Applications are available on the Internet. Candidate presentations, as early as this month, will be held in public. And while many remain doubtful that, in the end, this exercise will truly amount to a Mr. Smith goes to Springfield, more than 200 people have already stepped forward in just over a week. 
 Some are predictable: small-town mayors, former candidates, state lawmakers, lawyers, Sheila Simon (the daughter of Paul Simon, the former United States senator), even a former chairman of the Chicago Board of Trade. Far more are not: a brick salesman, a biochemical engineer, a Chicago police officer, a fourth-grade teacher, a liquor store owner, a professional violinist, the head of a solar energy company, a former docent coordinator at the zoo, and a sales associate in the television department at Best Buy. 
 Perhaps the single largest bloc seeking the $135,700-a-year post is the unemployed, many of whom hold up their gloomy layoff stories as the very reason they should be picked. Who better, several wrote in their applications, to understand the woes of the average voter?
 If a few acknowledged that their bids were mainly a lark, many more seemed earnest about the possibilities. The state's biggest challenges, nearly everyone said, were its dreadful budget gap and, in the wake of leaders like Rod R. Blagojevich, the ousted former Democratic governor, an overwhelming sense by voters that politicians cannot be trusted. 
 ''I am an unknown, no experience and with NO TIES TO ANYONE!'' one applicant, Jimmy V. Danesi, replied to a question about what strengths he would bring to the Democratic ticket. 
 Asked whether they had ever held public office, most happily said no (though some went on to cite leadership roles on their condo board, village historic preservation board and Jaycees). 
 Endorsements? Again, most had none or few (one man noted his father's support), and held that dearth of clout as a badge of political honor. ''Absolutely, positively and unequivocally NONE!!'' Arthur C. Fultz Jr. wrote. 
 Although the nomination is for the state's Democratic Party ticket this fall, not all who signed up were actually Democrats. One man said he had been a Republican ''lately'' but would be willing to switch back, while others said they were independent or ambivalent. 
 In the weeks since the resignation of the elected nominee, Scott Lee Cohen, a pawnbroker who spent $2 million on his campaign, some state leaders have called for abolishing the job of lieutenant governor. The job description is murkier than most. Still, the lieutenant governor steps in if the governor departs, a fact fresh in the minds of people here with the rise of Gov. Patrick J. Quinn, a Democrat who was lieutenant governor before Mr. Blagojevich was removed last year. 
 ''We need to have a clear No. 2 in line,'' said Karl Franklin Delano Riley II, 27, an applicant who wrote that he was elected to student government in college. ''In this state, you might need a No. 3.''
 Many here are skeptical, however, about the professed demise of the smoke-filled room. Once the applications are in, the usual party leaders will begin the process of choosing the nominee at their next meeting on March 15. The state's 38-member Democratic central committee, led by Michael J. Madigan, the state party chairman and, for decades, the speaker of the State House, holds the final say. And there is much at stake: While candidates for lieutenant governor run individually in primaries, nominees for governor and lieutenant governor run as a ticket come November. 
 But party leaders say the openness and transparency of the process is very real. ''The Democratic Party is a big tent,'' said Steve Brown, Mr. Madigan's spokesman. ''We're just here to let everybody have an opportunity.'' 
 Still, Alex Hartzler -- who described the strength he would bring to the ticket in a single sentence, ''I did not vote for Rod Blagojevich in 2006'' -- has his doubts. 
 ''There's something attractive about some man or woman from nowhere being picked for this,'' Mr. Hartzler, 25, a law student at the University of Chicago, said. ''But I just can't imagine they're going to pick someone they discover through this process.'' 
 Yet Michael S. Rebresh, 35, an applicant who owns Mr. Chauffeur, a car service, said party leaders must give all a serious look. 
 ''Take a guy like me,'' Mr. Rebresh said. ''I'm a man living on the ground floor. If they don't consider a regular guy, or girl for that matter, they're going to get caught on it.''
 Perhaps the most obvious candidates would be Rickey R. Hendon, a state senator from Chicago, and four others who lost to Mr. Cohen in the primary election last month. Mr. Hendon, who came in third, would not say whether he was applying.
 ''I've put my calls in, and I haven't heard back from the chairman, and I'm going to leave it at that,'' Mr. Hendon said. Asked whether a complete unknown would really have a shot, Mr. Hendon declined to speculate, adding, ''You're asking me to commit political suicide.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MICHAEL S. REBRESH: The 35-year-old owner of Mr. Chauffeur, a car service.
KARL FRANKLIN DELANO RILEY II: A 27-year-old husband, father and small-business owner
 ALEX HARTZLER: A 25-year-old law student at the University of Chicago. ( PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); MAYORS (77%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (71%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (63%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (56%); STEROIDS (56%); SOLAR ENERGY (51%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (51%); BUDGETS (50%)

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (69%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



238 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1086 words

PERSON: Bruce J. Graham 

HEADLINE: Bruce J. Graham, Chicago Architect Who Designed Sears Tower, Dies at 84

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Bruce J. Graham, whose integration of modernist design and sophisticated engineering in buildings like the John Hancock Center and the Sears Tower transformed the skyline of Chicago and reasserted the city's pre-eminence as a world architectural capital, died on Saturday at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 84.
 The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his son, George. 
 Mr. Graham, an architect with Skidmore, Owings & Merrill from 1951 until his retirement in 1989, played a determining role in propelling Chicago forward from the protomodern city created by Daniel Burnham and Louis Sullivan in the late 19th century. His most visible legacy is the 100-story Hancock Center on North Michigan Avenue, completed in 1970, and the 110-story Sears Tower (now the Willis Tower) on the west side of the Loop, the world's tallest building when it was completed in 1974.
 ''With those two skyscrapers he singlehandedly put Chicago back on the map,'' said Joseph Rosa, the chairman of the department of architecture and design at the Art Institute of Chicago. ''Without them, Chicago architecture would have been frozen in time. They expressed the optimism in Chicago and pointed toward what the future could be.''
 Downtown Chicago -- the Loop -- shows Mr. Graham's fingerprints at every turn. His many projects included the innovative Inland Steel Building (1957), based on an early plan by his Skidmore colleague Walter Netsch, and the Equitable Building and Chicago Civic Center (now the Richard J. Daley Center), both completed in 1965.
 In the 1980s, he added to the skyline Three First National Plaza (1981), Madison Plaza (1982), the three pink-granite towers of One Magnificent Mile (1983), and the Quaker Tower (1987). South of the Loop, he designed McCormick Place North (1986), an extension of the city's lakefront convention center.
 A power broker who had the ear of Chicago's business leaders and politicians, Mr. Graham was heavily involved in drafting the Chicago 21 plan in 1973. It called for the transformation of Navy Pier into a recreation area, the straightening of the S curve on Lake Shore Drive and an additional rerouting of the drive to free up land for the Chicago Museum Campus, a 57-acre setting of terraced gardens and walkways for the Adler Planetarium, the Shedd Aquarium and the Field Museum. All are defining features of the city today.
 Mr. Graham also designed buildings across the United States and in Hong Kong; Cairo; Barcelona, Spain; Seoul, South Korea; and elsewhere abroad. In London, he led the Skidmore team that drafted the master plan for Canary Wharf in the Docklands district and presided over the design of Broadgate, a mixed-use development near Liverpool Street Station.
 His signature buildings, bold and muscular interpretations of the Miesian glass box, gave Chicago's downtown the strong, Barrymore-like profile with which it faces the world. Buildings, he said in a 1997 interview for an oral history project at the Art Institute of Chicago, should be ''clear, free of fashion and simple statements of the truth.'' 
 Bruce John Graham was born on Dec. 1, 1925, in La Cumbre, a small town outside Cali, Colombia. His father, an international banker born in Canada, traveled widely. Within a few years the family settled in San Juan, P.R., where Bruce grew up and made a hobby of mapping the city's slum neighborhoods. 
 At 15 he won a scholarship to the University of Dayton in Ohio to study engineering. It was not until he traveled to the United States, he once said, that he first saw a building over 10 stories tall.
 In 1943 he enlisted in the Navy and, after training as a civil engineer and a radar technician, served in the Philippines. On returning from military service he enrolled in the University of Pennsylvania, where he earned a degree in architecture in 1948.
 On graduating, he moved to Chicago and sought out Mies van der Rohe, who sent him to Holabird, Root & Burgee. There he learned to make working drawings and, after two years, joined Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, a firm on the rise, where he was made a design partner in 1960. 
 Mr. Graham's engineering bent found expression not only in his buildings. ''He redefined how an architectural studio operates,'' Mr. Rosa of the Art Institute said. ''He allowed architects and engineers to have an equal voice, and this led to innovations.''
 With Fazlur Khan, Skidmore's chief structural engineer, he came up with ways to maximize office space at minimal cost. The signature X braces and exterior columns of the Hancock Building, like the exterior stainless-steel columns of the Inland Steel Building, freed up interior space and lowered costs. The Sears Tower, renamed the Willis Tower in 2009, consists of nine mutually supporting square tubes, staggered in height, allowing two towers to rise the final 20 stories of the 110-story building.
 In 1999 the Hancock Building was awarded the American Institute of Architects' 25 Year Award, given to buildings ''of enduring significance'' between 25 and 35 years old.
 ''In the heartland we believe in a direct relationship between work and thought,'' he told The New York Times in 1976. ''We make real buildings; we are not abstract about life, as they are in New York.''
 Mr. Graham thought big, but one of his grandest schemes came to naught. In 1980 he sat down with a team of architects to draft a plan for a 1992 World's Fair in Chicago to match the visionary fairs of 1893 and 1933, both of which altered the cityscape by creating parks and public buildings. The plan called for a series of exhibition buildings to be constructed on the near South Side and 500 acres of lagoons and islands to be reclaimed from Lake Michigan. 
 With the city's economy and government in disarray, and many community groups opposed, the project withered and finally died in 1985.
 In 1989 Mr. Graham retired from Skidmore and opened the firm of Graham & Graham with his second wife, the former Jane Abend, who ran the interiors department at Skidmore. She died in 2004. 
 In addition to his son, George, of Manhattan, Mr. Graham is survived by a sister, Margaret Graham Lewis of Gibson Island, Md.; two daughters, Lisa Graham Langlade-Demoyen of Paris and Mara Graham Dworsky of Altadena, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
 ''When I was a child, my dream was to build cities,'' Mr. Graham told the interviewer from the Art Institute in 1997. He was asked if that was real or a child's fantasy. ''It grew into less than a fantasy,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A photograph in some editions on Wednesday with an obituary about the architect Bruce J. Graham was published in error. It showed the John Hancock Tower in Boston with sailboats in the foreground, a building Mr. Graham did not design. He designed the John Hancock Center in Chicago. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mr. Graham's buildings gave Chicago's downtown a strong, vivid profile. Two of his most famous: the Sears Tower (now the Willis Tower), left, and the John Hancock Center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BUSINESS WIRE
SCOTT OLSON)
 Bruce J. Graham (PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF GRAHAM FAMILY, VIA SCC GROSSMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ENGINEERING (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); LAKES (66%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (56%)

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (57%); RYERSON HOLDING CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS332322 SHEET METAL WORK MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (50%) UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONG KONG (72%); SPAIN (50%)

CATEGORY: Architecture

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



239 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: A Reluctance to Ride The Energy Market

BYLINE: By ALEC APPELBAUM

 BODY:
As they set their energy budgets for next year, the owners of hundreds of buildings in New York will be eligible to join Con Edison's hourly pricing plan for electricity service, broadening a program that allows customers to monitor electricity usage as it changes over a day and pay rates that reflect that data.
 The program, which Con Ed calls mandatory hourly pricing, has been available to owners of the largest buildings since 2007. The impetus for the program is to motivate users to use less power in periods of peak demand, like hot summer afternoons, by showing how much cheaper it is at other times of day. 
 It will expand in May 2011 to those who consume up to 500 kilowatts a month -- buildings of about eight stories and larger. For a fee of about $100, Con Ed will equip participating landlords with ''smart'' meters, devices that show exactly how much electricity occupants use at different times of day. They then pay prices that change each hour with changes in overall demand. Landlords can save money by using the meters to shift some activities to when electricity is cheaper.
 But since it was introduced, the program has attracted just a small percentage of the landlords who can use it. Bob McGee, a spokesman for Con Ed, said that about 100 of 790 eligible buildings use the program now, and that 330 of a potential 1,200 have signed up to begin in May next year. 
 ''It doesn't seem to make sense for the New York market,'' said Edward M. Fallon, president of the Building Owners and Managers Association of Greater New York. Mr. Fallon said he could not find a member who had embraced the program, in which Con Ed sets hourly prices one day in advance based on its own hourly costs. Instead, he said, most of his organization's members chose to buy fixed-rate contracts from third parties, known as energy services companies, or ESCOs, that hedge against spikes in the price of power. 
 In effect, these owners would rather trust the energy services companies' constant analysis of factors affecting electricity prices than invest time in reading the smart meters and paying the rates that Con Ed sets. 
 Using ESCOs, moreover, can save money in other ways. Edward V. Piccinich, executive vice president for the big landlord SL Green Realty, said that an ESCO contract could save 4 to 5 percent on electricity transmission costs. Margaret M. Carey, president of MCEnergy, a consulting firm, said the state provided tax advantages on such contracts to encourage competition among electricity providers. 
 In the decade since New York State deregulated electricity, Con Ed has focused on delivering power, not generating it. The vast majority of electricity that flows into New York buildings comes over Con Ed's lines at rates that the company agrees to with the state Public Service Commission in sometimes protracted and arcane proceedings called rate cases. 
 David F. Bomke, the executive director of the New York Energy Consumers Council, a ratepayers' advocacy group, said he suspected that the state might have put pressure on Con Ed to offer the program without making sure that the utility had a cogent way of marketing it as a money-saver for users. 
 That thesis makes sense to Mr. Fallon. ''I'm not sure Con Ed has marketed this as well as they could,'' he said. ''Maybe they didn't really want to do it.'' (Mr. Fallon said he was speaking on behalf of the owners' and managers' association, not his employer, Brookfield Office Properties.) 
 In response, Mr. McGee said: ''Con Edison fully agrees with the P.S.C.'s conclusion that accurate price signals will lead to reduced peak usage, which will, in turn, mitigate peak-period prices, increase peak-period reliability and reduce New York state's dependence on natural gas-fueled generation, as well as greenhouse gas emissions.''
 The energy service providers, meanwhile, compete hard on price. (One is a Con Ed subsidiary called Con Edison Solutions.) Even big landlords who prefer to ''ride the market'' and pay changing prices, though, tend to buy power from ESCOs. Mr. Piccinich said that his team constantly assessed factors like weather, geopolitical problems, commodity prices and data about the health of New York City's aging power grid. ESCOs, he said, provide essential research on these complex factors. 
 For smaller landlords, even smart meters might not prevent Con Ed's prices from looking dangerously volatile. Severin Borenstein, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley who studies electricity pricing, said that landlords tended to be more confident that hourly prices would move in a predictable range when a utility and regulator were friendly. ''New York is one of the places where there's been more tension,'' he said. 
 And, Mr. Bomke said, most landlords in the smaller buildings Con Ed will soon open to hourly pricing lack the staff to do this monitoring in house. (In a four-year study of hourly pricing in upstate New York, one of the earlier markets to try it, economists at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory found that 70 percent of users said they ''rarely or never'' reviewed price signals.) 
 Still, ESCOs are likely to expand their own hourly pricing services, Ms. Carey said, and in that context Con Ed's hourly pricing program is important for the competition it will inspire. ''There will be a marked cultural change with regard to how people finally manage their use of energy,'' she said. 
 Over the next several years, electricity experts say, hourly pricing or its variants will dominate the market. ''The mere fact that this option is being marketed is a tremendous change,'' said Anthony E. Malkin, the president of Malkin Properties, which owns the Empire State Building and is a client of MCEnergy. ''Variable cost will get people to think a lot more about varying demand.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 13, 2010

 CORRECTION:
 An article on Wednesday about hourly pricing services for electricity in commercial buildings in New York misstated the ownership and management of the Empire State Building. It is owned by the Malkin family and the Helmsley estate and managed by Malkin Holdings; it is not owned by Malkin Holdings. The article also gave an incorrect description of the amount of power a building must consume to be eligible to participate in a new Con Edison pricing program. Buildings must have a peak demand of a minimum of 500 kilowatts a month; not up to 500 kilowatts a month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Anthony E. Malkin, president of Malkin Properties, said hourly electricity pricing would ''get people to think a lot more about varying demand.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY EMMANUEL DUNAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (73%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (72%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); SL GREEN REALTY CORP (51%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); SLG (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



240 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: City Opera Announces Another Streamlined Season

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The struggling New York City Opera, operating with a slender financial cushion, announced plans on Tuesday for another stripped down, five-production season but said it would add a series of concert performances.
 The company announced two productions for the fall: ''A Quiet Place'' by Leonard Bernstein, which City Opera said had never been staged in New York City, and a revival of Strauss's ''Intermezzo.'' 
 In the spring it will bring back a Jonathan Miller production of ''L'Elisir d'Amore'' by Donizetti, which was last at the house in 2006; a bill of three short operas by John Zorn, Arnold Schoenberg and Morton Feldman; and the first opera by Stephen Schwartz, veteran of Broadway musicals including ''Godspell,'' ''Pippin'' and ''Wicked.'' His work, ''Seance on a Wet Afternoon,'' is based on the novel by Mark McShane and its film adaptation. 
 The company will also put on five concerts, including a season-opening gala with its orchestra and the soprano Christine Brewer; evenings devoted to the music of Bernstein, Mr. Schwartz and ''John Zorn and Friends'' (who are to include Laurie Anderson and Lou Reed); and a family concert performance of Oliver Knussen's ''Where the Wild Things Are,'' based on the book by Maurice Sendak, who is the librettist.
 New York City Opera jumped into concert giving last season by necessity while its home, the New York State Theater, underwent a major renovation. Work included creating a pit that can rise and fall.
 Now called the David H. Koch Theater after a major benefactor, the house also has a new fire curtain over the stage that the company says improves concert acoustics. 
 ''People have now been telling me we have one of the best concert halls at Lincoln Center, and I don't disagree,'' George Steel, the company's general manager and artistic director, said in a telephone interview. 
 ''These concerts provide a lot of artistic and musical context for the productions we are giving,'' Mr. Steel said. He acknowledged that they were also less expensive to produce than operas but added, ''It costs more money to put on concerts than not to put on concerts.''
 The closing of the theater, leadership turmoil and the recession pushed the company into crisis, but Mr. Steel said that this season City Opera expects to balance its budget for the first time in years.
 ''The company is light-years ahead of where we were last year at this time,'' he said. ''There are still significant challenges, but we are working very hard to address them.''
 When asked what these challenges were, Mr. Steel said, ''I don't know whether you've read the paper, but there's a downturn that's affected opera companies all around the country.'' 
 To deal with large accumulated deficits City Opera's administration dipped into the endowment, using $24 million of it. The sum is considered a loan and must be repaid. The endowment, meanwhile, stands at about $9.4 million, a trifle given the company's budget, which Mr. Steel said would be $32.8 million next season, up from this season's $30 million. 
 At the end of 2003 the endowment was $57 million. Before the current troubles City Opera used to put on about three times as many operas as are planned for next season -- 15 or more. 
 Mr. Steel, who took over early last year, has said the ''right size'' of a City Opera season would be 8 to 10 operas, with a budget of around $35 million to $40 million. He said the company expected to meet its fund-raising goals this year to keep operating but was not ready yet to tackle an endowment campaign.
 Fall at the City Opera next season has a domestic, family theme. ''A Quiet Place,'' to be directed by Christopher Alden, focuses on a troubled family that reunites at a funeral; ''Intermezzo,'' which first played at City Opera in 1999, is a domestic comedy based on Strauss and his wife. Mr. Miller's ''L'Elisir'' is set in 1950s America, removed from what he once called the ''pastoral piffle'' of its original setting in an early-19th-century Italian village. Stefania Dovhan, a soprano, will portray Adina, and the tenor David Lomeli sings Nemorino. 
 The three-opera bill features ''La Machine de l'Etre,'' by Mr. Zorn, a 10-minute wordless monodrama for singer and orchestra without text or story based on the drawings of Antonin Artaud; ''Erwartung,'' Schoenberg's early-20th-century masterpiece; and ''Neither,'' by Morton Feldman to a libretto by Samuel Beckett, a 1976 work never staged with orchestra in the United States.
 ''Seance on a Wet Afternoon'' had its premiere in September at Opera Santa Barbara, in California. Lauren Flanigan is scheduled for the role of Myra Foster, a psychic who arranges the kidnapping of a child.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (69%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%); THEATER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



241 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Irish Rethinking Football Independence

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

 BODY:
Calling the state of college sports the most unstable he has seen in 29 years, Notre Dame Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick said Tuesday that the Irish were considering giving up their football independence. 
 Although Swarbrick stressed that Notre Dame was ''trying like hell'' to keep its unique independence, he said the potential for ''seismic change'' in conference alignments was forcing him to spend 50 percent of his time making sure Notre Dame is prepared. 
 Swarbrick said that he and Notre Dame's president, the Rev. John I. Jenkins, have been discussing situations that could affect the university. 
 ''I believe we're at a point right now where the changes could be relatively small or they could be seismic,'' Swarbrick said. ''The landscape could look completely different. What I have to do along with Father Jenkins is try and figure out where those pieces are falling and how the landscape is changing.'' 
 Notre Dame is the only independent team with an affiliation with the Bowl Championship Series. Most of its other sports are members of the Big East. 
 Swarbrick said that the decision to look at alternatives, the most likely of which would be joining the Big Ten Conference, stemmed from external factors. He said that the Southeastern Conference and the Big Ten had separated themselves from the other four major conferences -- the Pacific-10, Big 12, Big East and Atlantic Coast Conference -- because of their lucrative television agreements. 
 ''This is as unstable as I've ever seen it,'' Swarbrick said. ''You add to that a change in N.C.A.A. leadership and the discussion of the expansion of the basketball tournament. Every factor that touches the business of collegiate athletics right now is potentially in flux.'' 
 Whether the landscape of college sports will shift drastically or just simply evolve rests mostly on the Big Ten. The Pac-10 has announced that it is exploring expansion offers, but the Big Ten holds significantly more power because of its television network. If the Big Ten added only one team, and that team was Notre Dame, the shift in college sports would be minimal. But if the Big Ten, which already has 11 teams, were to expand to 14 or 16 members, it could create a radical shift in college sports alignments. 
 The Big East, which was raided by the A.C.C. in 2005, would be a target and could lose universities like Rutgers, Pittsburgh, Syracuse and West Virginia. 
 A report last week in The Chicago Tribune said that the Big Ten had hired an investment firm to study Pittsburgh, Rutgers, Syracuse, Missouri and Notre Dame. The study found that if the Big Ten decided to expand, the league's current members would be able to make more money. 
 ''You each could invent a scenario that would force our hand,'' Swarbrick told a small group of reporters. ''It's not hard to do. We just have to pay attention and stay on top of the game and talk to people.''
 Big East Commissioner John Marinatto said Tuesday in an interview at Madison Square Garden that his conference was always working to improve itself. He cited the creation of three bowl games and the fact that the league was studying its television options, including starting its own network. 
 ''If creating a network is what we need to do in the next several years, we'll create a network,'' Marinatto said. ''We're here today because of the leadership the conference had five years ago when the conference had dramatically changed. That leadership is still the same. We will not allow it to not be successful.'' 
 Notre Dame has a standing invitation to join the Big East's eight-team football league, but that is not likely. A more likely move would be for Notre Dame to join the Big Ten, which be financially comparable to the Irish's current television deal with NBC and also would drastically increase the value of the Big Ten's network. 
 NBC is paying Notre Dame an estimated $15 million a year under its current deal, which runs through 2015. 
 ''We've seen a lot of businesses in America change dramatically in the past five years,'' Swarbrick said. ''The automotive industry and the airline industry couldn't look any different than it did five years ago. They are responding to the economic pressures, and college sports is doing the same thing.'' 
 The Big Ten's timetable for possible expansion could stretch well over a year. The Big East's television contract expires in 2012-13 and is considered undervalued because it was negotiated in the wake of the A.C.C. invasion, which lured away Boston College, Miami and Virginia Tech, and when much skepticism surrounded the football conference. 
 ''It's all speculation,'' Marinatto said. ''You envision numerous scenarios. You and I can come up with 144 iterations of what seismic change could be. But it's all based on speculation. So it's really not a fruitful exercise to go through. My job is to keep everyone grounded and to improve the conference and insulate it from changing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Notre Dame has long profited from its status as an independent in football, but joining a conference like the Big Ten could have financial and competitive benefits. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL CONROY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B13)
 Notre Dame finished 6-6 last season and has averaged seven wins a season since 2000. It last won a national title in 1988. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EZRA SHAW/GETTY IMAGES) (B18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (92%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); BASKETBALL (73%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (67%); TOURNAMENTS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BIG TEN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (55%); SOUTHEASTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (54%); ATLANTIC COAST ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



242 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Time to Celebrate? Not in a Big Way

BYLINE: By EDWARD HADAS and MARTIN HUTCHINSON

 BODY:
Anniversaries are a good time to reminisce. The global stock market rally is now a year old -- the lows were hit on March 9, 2009 -- and that certainly brings back memories. It's easy to see why the MSCI World Index has surged 71 percent in that period.
 Then, there was a steep recession; now there is economic growth. Then, it was realistic to worry about such horrors as rapid deflation, serial banking crises and a competitive protectionism. Now, all of those menaces have now receded. And stock market investors are heartened to see companies in enough control of their short-term destiny that most of them are meeting or beating analysts' expectations of reported profits. 
 But this celebration is no better than bittersweet. The stock market rally has sputtered somewhat. Although the commodity-heavy FTSE 100 index in Britain is hitting new highs, most other major indexes in the world have made almost no progress for five months. That stalling reflects both an unexpectedly tepid economic recovery and serious worries about whether there will be much to celebrate in the future.
 Too many of the wounds of the financial crisis remain unhealed. Central banks are still extraordinarily generous, and unemployment rates are unacceptably high. The world is too leveraged for its own good. And while the financial system is no longer in crisis, its newfound ebullience is itself a cause for worry.
 The new talk of inflation is a sign of how far from health markets are. Stock markets are ultimately good hedges against rising prices, but investors feel queasy when economists at serious institutions like the International Monetary Fund, Morgan Stanley and Societe Generale see high inflation as either the most likely or the least bad way to erode excessive leverage.
 Historically, a great 12 months in the stock market has usually been followed by a mediocre period -- an average 3 percent decline since 1940 in the United States, according to Deutsche Bank. Stock markets are still well below their peak levels, but there may not be much to celebrate this time next year.
 Good Idea for Europe
 The proposed creation of a European Monetary Fund faces tough political obstacles. But if the relevant treaties can be amended or skirted, such an organization could effectively address the euro zone's central problem: a lack of fiscal policy coordination.
 When the euro was introduced, commentators pointed out that the criteria for fiscal policy set up by the Maastricht Treaty were too weak to ensure proper coordination, leaving profligate countries free to endanger the system. Skeptics predicted either doom or an unacceptable surrender of sovereignty to a central fiscal authority.
 A decade on, the fears look partly justified. The common monetary policy exerts the least discipline on free-spending governments that need discipline most, while language and other barriers keep workers from migrating and earning wages in countries where they have risen excessively.
 A properly constructed European Monetary Fund can't make Germans move to Greece, but it could help resolve the fiscal problems. Like the International Monetary Fund, it would provide a healthy discipline on euro zone countries that get themselves into trouble. Most important would be conditions placed on loans: money goes only to countries that deliver draconian public sector cuts, pension and health care restrictions and overall wage cuts.
 Politicians in countries receiving loans know bitter cures are required, but they face tremendous resistance from voters. So politicians are tempted to lobby peers for softer treatment. But a fund run by stern central bankers could afford to be hated. Potential client countries would do everything possible to avoid it, which would be good for everyone.
 While Britain is unlikely to be a founding member, a fund should take a British model -- the Bank of England under the leadership of Montagu Norman. In 1931, he forced the formation of the fiscally responsible National Government before leaving the gold standard.
 Mr. Norman was reviled, but Britain avoided the worst of the Great Depression and enjoyed rapid economic growth thereafter.
 The closest present day equivalent to Mr. Norman might be Otmar Issing. He's the former chief economist of the European Central Bank currently advising Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany against a weak-willed bailout of Greece.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Otmar Issing, formerly of the European Central Bank, opposes rescuing Greece. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM BERRY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (87%); EURO (86%); ANNIVERSARIES (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); DEFLATION (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); EURO ZONE (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (60%); EROSION (56%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (57%); GLE (BIT) (57%); MS (NYSE) (55%); DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



243 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: The Fired Teachers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Wholesale School Shake-Up Is Embraced by the President, and Divisions Follow'' (news article, March 7): 
 The president whom I embraced, supported, campaigned and voted for with greater passion than anyone in my 38-year voting life has severely disappointed me with his ''tough love'' endorsement of a Rhode Island school board's decision to fire the entire faculty of a poorly performing school.
 With all due respect, President Obama inherited an unprecedented mess when he took office, including the devastating effects of the Bush-Cheney administration's No Child Left Behind, and the Iraq-Afghanistan war budget, public policies that have left every child behind! 
 To hold shamefully underpaid and overworked public school teachers solely responsible for the performance of students in a poor community with a large immigrant population is reprehensible and shortsighted. In virtually all instances school success in the United States is most closely tied to socioeconomic status, and the only thing that trickled down to poor communities and their schools in the Bush-Cheney years was hopelessness and devastation.
 Barry Goldman-Hall San Jose, Calif., March 7, 2010
 The writer, a social worker, is on the faculty of the School of Social Work at San Jose State University.
 To the Editor:
 There are many lessons for both the Central Falls, R.I., teachers and others to learn. The biggest? They cannot have it both ways -- demand white-collar status but be paid like a union irrespective of performance or economic climate. 
 These teachers showed nothing but chutzpah in demanding higher pay to cover 25 additional minutes of daily instruction at a time when 93 percent of their 11th graders were failing a state math test. They are sadly out of touch; in a failing business, employees asking for a pay increase would be quickly shown the door. The patient Central Falls superintendent simply did what any responsible manager would do. 
 I'm grateful that my sons had largely excellent teachers in public school. But no professional should be beyond the reach of accountability and so insensitive to today's economic realities. 
 Keith Belton Concord, Mass., March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WRITERS (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SAN JOSE STATE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (91%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



244 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Caution Rules as Major Indexes Inch Forward

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
On the one-year anniversary of the stock market's plunge to 12-year lows, Wall Street found itself at another crossroads. This time, the question for investors was not so much whether the economy would turn around, but just how strong a recovery would be.
 Trading on Tuesday summed up the apprehension that has recently clouded the stock market. The major indexes ended the day with slight gains, but investors shied away from risky moves in the absence of conclusive economic data. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 0.11 percent, or 11.86 points, to 10,564.38. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 0.17 percent, or 1.95 points, to 1,140.45, and the Nasdaq composite index gained 0.36 percent or 8.47 points, to 2,340.68.
 The market's next move may largely depend on whether investors see the latest upward momentum as justified, given the state of the recovery, or if they determine the market has come too far too fast. 
 ''They're definitely afraid of getting whipsawed, of committing money and then all of a sudden having the Dow pull back a couple thousand points,'' said Hank B. Smith, chief investment officer for Haverford Investments. ''There's anxiety presented every day to investors.''
 Stocks have surged more than 60 percent over the last year. Analysts do not expect Wall Street to reprise that remarkable performance over the next year, but many forecasts call for steady growth of 10 to 20 percent.
 Those projections are based on the belief that the recovery will plow forward even as some areas of the economy, including the jobs and housing markets, improve at a halting pace. Recent data has muddied the outlook. Unemployment has shown signs of easing, bolstering hopes of a sustainable recovery, but the housing market and consumer confidence remain weak. 
 ''An overvalued market is facing a reality check,'' David A. Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist for Gluskin Sheff, wrote in a research note.
 At the moment, the major indexes are slightly above their Dec. 31 levels after a volatile start to the year. Some analysts believe a steep decline is inevitable as the market comes to terms with a lackluster recovery. Others say that a downturn in late January already recalibrated the market, and stocks are now poised for steady, albeit unspectacular, growth.
 Even the most optimistic forecasters acknowledge that the economy faces an uncomfortable number of unresolved issues. Many government stimulus programs are poised to expire, and it is unclear when the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates. 
 On Tuesday, Charles L. Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, reiterated the central bank's intention to keep rates near zero ''for some time.'' But he cautioned that maintaining low rates for ''too long'' could bring on inflation.
 In addition, it is still uncertain how policy makers will move to resolve debt woes in Greece, which became an international concern in January amid worries of a broader crisis. 
 On Tuesday, telecommunications stocks helped lead a fleeting rally, as Cisco Systems announced a redesigned router with the potential to significantly improve Internet speeds. While shares of Cisco were flat, telecommunications firms gained, with Sprint Nextel surging 6.47 percent.
 Citigroup rose more than 7 percent amid reports that the government was planning to reduce its stake in the company. 
 American International Group climbed nearly 13 percent on speculation that it was preparing to sell more assets after jettisoning two major insurance units. 
 The Treasury's 10-year note rose 5/32, to 99 12/32. The yield fell to 3.70 percent, from 3.72 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (83%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (60%); GLUSKIN SHEFF & ASSOCIATES INC (52%)

TICKER: GS (TSX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



245 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: As Fed Eases Loan Aid, Policy Challenges Arise

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
ARLINGTON, Va. -- The Federal Reserve has terminated nearly all of the extraordinary lending programs it created in 2007 and 2008 to combat the credit crisis. But it now faces critical decisions in coming months about when and how to tighten monetary policy, according to two Fed officials.
 The officials -- Brian P. Sack, the executive vice president who oversees the trading desk at Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and Charles L. Evans, president of the Chicago Fed -- spoke this week at an economic policy conference here sponsored by the National Association for Business Economics. 
 Neither challenged the position that the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and other members of the Fed's policy-setting panel have stated for months: that the central bank would keep short-term interest rates ''exceptionally low'' for ''an extended period.''
 The policy-setting panel, known as the Federal Open Market Committee, is scheduled to meet next Tuesday, and is widely expected to reiterate that language. Mr. Evans told reporters on Tuesday that he interpreted an ''extended period'' to mean at least six months.
 Mr. Evans said the Fed funds rate, which has been held near zero since December 2008, should stay there ''for some time,'' because the Fed did not have the usual tension between its two mandates of maintaining price stability while promoting maximum sustainable employment.
 ''When I became Chicago Fed president in 2007, I never would have guessed that my first two and a half years would have me voting continually for lower interest rates and more policy accommodation,'' Mr. Evans said. ''But with the unemployment rate at 9.7 percent and inflation significantly under my benchmark for price stability, there is no conflict between our policy goals, and so the directions for policy have been clear.''
 Mr. Evans, drawing on research by economists at the Chicago Fed, said the labor market was distinctive in two ways. When compared with past recessions, a greater share of adults is outside the labor force in the current downturn and the average spell of unemployment is longer, he said. 
 Economists inside the Fed have been debating the significance of those two trends. Some believe they may reflect ''broader, structural changes in the economy,'' like a long-term mismatch between the skills of the unemployed and those demanded by employers, Mr. Evans said. 
 Under that view, there is less slack, or unused productive capacity, than existing models would predict. That would have implications on when and how the Fed moves to tighten the supply of credit in the economy.
 Mr. Evans suggested that the debate, while significant, did not have immediate implications for policy. ''The debate really boils down to whether the amount of slack in the economy is large or is extremely large,'' he said.
 On Monday, meanwhile, the Fed held its final auction through the Term Auction Facility, which was created in December 2007 to offer banks short-term loans against a wide range of collateral. A total of 53 bidders submitted propositions for $3.41 billion in credit, and all the offers were accepted, the New York Fed announced on Tuesday. 
 Mr. Sack said the auction brought to an end the short-term liquidity programs the Fed established during the financial crisis. (He said that he was not counting one remaining program, the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility, created in November 2008, because it provides money for up to five years. The Fed will stop making loans under that program in June.)
 At their peak, the special lending programs provided more than $1.5 trillion in credit to the economy; today the remaining balance is $20 billion.
 Mr. Sack said the Fed faced a tremendous challenge. For the first time, the central bank will have two tools -- its huge balance sheet and short-term interest rate -- when it comes time to tighten monetary policy, and it will have to use untested tools to drain the large sum of bank reserves being held at the Fed.
 The Fed has already bought $300 billion in Treasury securities as well as $169 billion in debts (out of an authorized total of $175 billion) guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. It is $30 billion away from hitting its goal of buying $1.25 trillion in mortgage-backed securities, a process ending this month.
 The asset purchases helped hold down long-term interest rates, and Mr. Sack said that the Fed would be looking to shrink its balance sheet ''in a gradual and passive manner.''
 Similarly, the Fed will use the interest rate it pays on excess reserves, along with two other new tools, to begin draining the reserves it created to buy those assets. Echoing a strategy outlined by Mr. Bernanke, Mr. Sack said the Fed might drain reserves on a trial run before increasing the interest rate on excess reserves. 
 Only later, with the tightening under way and with an economic recovery firmly established, would the Fed start to sell the assets, he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brian P. Sack
 Charles L. Evans, head of the Chicago Fed, spoke Tuesday at a conference of the National Association for Business Economics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LABOR FORCE (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



246 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Angered by U.S. Security Measures, Pakistani Lawmakers Return Home as Heroes

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Pir Zubair Shah contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -- A tour of the United States arranged by the State Department to improve ties to Pakistani legislators ended in a public relations fiasco when the members of the group refused to submit to extra airport screening in Washington, and they are now being hailed as heroes on their return home.
 ''People should be thankful, you made them so proud,'' said Hamid Mir, the host of a popular national talk show, during an interview in his studio on Tuesday with four of the six politicians, who railed against the security precautions at Ronald Reagan National Airport. 
 Meetings with the Obama administration's top policy makers on Pakistan, including the president's special representative, Richard C. Holbrooke, and visits to the Pentagon and the National Security Council, did not allay the anger the politicians said they felt at being asked to submit to a secondary screening on Sunday before boarding a flight to New Orleans. They declined to be screened and did not board the flight.
 Pakistan is one of 14 mostly Muslim countries whose citizens must go through increased checks before they fly into the United States, a procedure mandated by the Obama administration in the wake of the failed attempt by a Nigerian man to blow up an airliner flying from the Netherlands to Detroit on Dec. 25.
 The inclusion of Pakistan on the list was broadly criticized as an insult to a country that the United States calls an ally.
 The leader of the parliamentary group, Senator Abbas Khan Afridi, said in an interview on Tuesday that before they were to board the flight for New Orleans, he and his colleagues were selected from a crowd of passengers at the airport and asked to stand aside.
 They were then asked to accept a full-body scan by a machine, he said. Such body-scanning units are in use at 19 airports across the United States, and more are being installed.
 One of Mr. Afridi's colleagues, Akhunzada Chitan, told Mr. Mir on his ''Capital Talk'' program, ''Going through a body scan makes you naked, and in making you naked, they make the whole country naked.''
 The lawmakers were chosen to visit the United States by the Political Section of the American Embassy. American officials are eager to reach out to political figures from the underdeveloped and isolated tribal areas where the Pakistani Army is now fighting to reclaim territory from the Taliban.
 The United States Agency for International Development pledged two years ago to spend $750 million on various projects in the tribal areas, but residents there complain that they see more of the Taliban than American assistance.
 In preparatory briefings for their trip, the politicians were advised that they might have to submit to extra body searches, just as randomly selected Americans must submit to secondary screening by the new machines, two officials from the American Embassy said.
 The Pakistanis were specifically warned that the United States was not a ''V.I.P. culture,'' unlike Pakistan, where politicians are often exempted from unpalatable procedures that other people have to tolerate, the American officials said.
 ''We are disappointed that the group took offense at the security procedures thousands of Americans and visitors must endure at airports every day,'' said Larry Schwartz, the senior communications adviser at the American Embassy in Islamabad. ''No offense was intended. Indeed, they were warmly welcomed at high levels in Washington.''
 The American Embassy in Islamabad has been endowed with an extra $37 million by Congress to spend on exchange programs intended to show skeptical Pakistanis that the United States is a real ally, a country that wants to help, not hinder, Pakistan.
 The people-to-people exchanges between Pakistan and the United States, which include American lecturers and teachers of English coming to Pakistan, is now the most ambitious of such efforts run by the State Department around the globe, Mr. Schwartz said.
 About 2,000 Pakistanis are expected to participate in the strengthened educational and cultural programs this year, he said. Indeed, a prime motivation of the protest against the screening procedures by the tribal area politicians appeared to be an effort to appeal to their home constituencies, many of whom regard the United States as an enemy.
 ''Our people were very disturbed we were going to America,'' Mr. Afridi said. ''We were under threat for going to the United States. We took the risk to see if America was interested in solving the problems.''
 The State Department paid each of the participants $200 a day for accommodations and food during their stay in the United States.
 If the American taxpayers wanted the money for the expenses refunded, he would be happy to do so, said Mr. Afridi, 40, who described himself as a major trader in cement, with businesses across Pakistan and in Afghanistan.
 ''We can pay back the $200 a day, no problem,'' he said. 
 Then, he drove off in his brand-new Hummer -- an example of his affection for American autos, he said -- to appear on another television program to tell his story of standing up to the American authorities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICS (89%); AIRPORT BODY SCANS & PAT DOWNS (89%); TALIBAN (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ARMIES (77%); AIRLINES (77%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); RICHARD HOLBROOKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



247 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Parliamentary Hurdle Could Thwart Latest Health Care Overhaul Strategy

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and ROBERT PEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The White House and Democratic Congressional leaders said Tuesday that they were bracing for a key procedural ruling that could complicate their effort to approve major health care legislation, by requiring President Obama to sign the bill into law before Congress could revise it through an expedited budget process. 
 An official determination on the matter could come within days from the House and Senate parliamentarians, and could present yet another hurdle for Mr. Obama and Democratic leaders as they try to lock in support from skittish lawmakers in the House. 
 Meanwhile, Congressional leaders and top administration officials met in the offices of the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, on Tuesday evening trying to resolve outstanding policy differences between the chambers. 
 House leaders were still navigating potential pitfalls, including a dispute over provisions related to insurance coverage of abortion, while opponents of the legislation, including a leading business group, planned a new onslaught of television advertisements attacking the proposal. 
 Many rank-and-file House Democrats are reluctant to approve the Senate-passed health care measure without a guarantee that the Senate would follow up with changes in a budget reconciliation bill. The Senate measure included a number of provisions House members dislike, including special deals intended to secure the support of individual senators, like extra Medicaid money for Nebraska. 
 Democratic leaders had been contemplating an intricate legislative two-step, by which the House would approve the original Senate health care measure and both chambers would adopt a package of changes in a budget reconciliation bill. Both measures would then be sent to Mr. Obama for his signature. 
 Some officials said House leaders were holding out hope for a favorable ruling by the parliamentarians that would allow them to proceed as planned -- or to circumvent the problem. 
 But Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Budget Committee, said the reconciliation instructions in last year's budget resolution seemed to require that Mr. Obama sign the Senate bill into law before it could be changed. 
 ''It's very hard to see how you draft, and hard to see how you score, a reconciliation bill to another bill that has not yet been passed and become law,'' Mr. Conrad said. ''I just advise you go read the reconciliation instructions and see if you think it has been met if it doesn't become law.'' 
 The procedural maneuvering highlighted the acute sensitivity around virtually every step in the Democrats' push to achieve Mr. Obama's top domestic priority.
 As Democrats considered the potential parliamentary maneuvers, a coalition of business groups announced Tuesday that it was beginning a television advertising campaign to stop the health care legislation.
 The advertisement says ''we thought Washington understood'' that jobs and the economy should be the top priority for Congress. But instead, it says, ''Congress is trying to use special rules to ram through their same trillion-dollar health care bill,'' with ''billions in new taxes and more mandates on businesses.''
 The executive vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, R. Bruce Josten, said the groups were spending $4 million to $10 million on the advertisements. Sponsors include the chamber, the National Association of Manufacturers and the National Retail Federation.
 Separately, America's Health Insurance Plans, a lobby for insurers, said Tuesday that it was buying more than a million dollars' worth of television advertising time to explain why insurance premiums had been rising.
 Obama administration officials have unleashed a barrage of criticism of insurers, as part of their final push for support of the health legislation. They say the industry is reaping huge profits and overpaying top executives. But insurance companies say premiums have shot up because of soaring medical costs.
 ''What's inside the health care cost pie?'' the advertisement asks. ''Some in Washington say it's all health insurance. But health insurance is one of the smallest slices. Health insurance companies' costs are only 4 percent of health care spending. Doctors, hospitals, medicines and tests are the biggest slices.''
 The Senate Democratic whip, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, said there was no timetable for a budget reconciliation bill. The budget bill might include a major overhaul of the student loan program, he said, but only if it helped secure health care votes.
 The most immediate question seemed to be how parliamentarians would rule on the steps that Democrats must follow. The reconciliation instructions require that committees ''report changes in laws'' that help meet deficit reduction targets. 
 Democrats are planning to use budget reconciliation to make the final health care revisions because it circumvents a Republican filibuster in the Senate and can be adopted by a simple majority vote rather than 60-vote supermajority normally required. 
 Republican leaders have been working to fan distrust of the Senate among House Democrats, warning that Mr. Obama and the Senate would have little reason to pursue the budget reconciliation process once the House approves the Senate-passed bill. 
 At that point, the Republicans suggest, Mr. Obama might just as well hold a signing ceremony and declare the legislation completed, even though it would include the objectionable provisions that the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, inserted. 
 ''We believe what the president is doing is asking House Democrats to hold hands, jump off a cliff and hope Harry Reid catches them,'' Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the No. 3 Republican, said on Tuesday. ''And Senator Reid is not going to have any incentive to catch them because by the time the reconciliation bill gets to the Senate, the president will have already signed the health care bill into law and he'll be well on his way to Indonesia.'' 
 Some Democrats are hoping that the House will vote on the Senate bill by March 18, before Mr. Obama leaves for a weeklong trip to Guam, Indonesia and Australia. Congress also leaves March 26 for a two-week recess. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Max Baucus, a key figure in the health care debate, talked Tuesday with members of an Alzheimers' group during a break in a Senate session. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); MEDICAID (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); KENT CONRAD (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



248 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Delays on Arms Control Pact Bog Down U.S. Efforts to Reset Relations With Russia

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER and MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When President Obama got on the telephone with President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia last month, he was under the impression that they were finally close to wrapping up a long-delayed arms control treaty that he had originally expected to sign in December. 
 But to Mr. Obama's surprise, Mr. Medvedev was not ready to sign off on a deal and raised issues that required more discussion, American officials said. As he hung up, the officials said, a frustrated Mr. Obama realized that the two sides were not as close as he had thought and sent negotiators back to the table. 
 The fitful effort to fashion a treaty that would be a signature achievement of his presidency has demonstrated the hurdles Mr. Obama faces in his drive to reset relations with Russia after years of tension.
 After months of delay and discord, administration officials said, they have learned that when it comes to deal-making with Moscow, nothing is done until it is done, and rarely will it go as smoothly as anticipated.
 Negotiators are making a fresh effort this week to break the logjam and finish by the end of the month, so they can showcase the new treaty at an international summit meeting on nuclear nonproliferation that Mr. Obama will host in Washington in April. Underscoring his determination to seal the deal, he sent Ellen Tauscher, the under secretary of state for arms control, to Geneva to help resolve remaining differences, and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton plans to travel to Moscow next week.
 Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, predicted Tuesday that the treaty could be finished by the end of the month. ''We would push for a conclusion in two to three weeks,'' Mr. Lavrov said, according to Russian news agencies. ''For this, there is every chance.''
 The White House also expressed cautious optimism as negotiators went back to work in Geneva. ''They are working on the last few remaining issues to a new treaty,'' said Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary. ''We are certainly hopeful that that can get done in short order.''
 But Mr. Gibbs added that the administration would not rush a bad deal just to get it done before the summit meeting, scheduled for April 12-13. ''If it takes, quite frankly, many more weeks past April to get something that we believe is in our best interest,'' he said, then the United States would take the extra time.
 The arms control treaty is part of a complicated diplomatic effort to forge a new relationship with Russia, interlinked with issues like Iran, missile defense and Afghanistan. Mr. Obama had hoped to restore ties with some relatively easier deals that could lead to more trust and deeper cooperation in areas that have long divided the former adversaries. 
 But even the supposedly easy agreements have been hard. The new arms pact was supposed to be a relatively straightforward replacement of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty of 1991, known as Start. The administration hoped that a successful negotiation would be a catalyst to a broader and more ambitious round of disarmament talks. Yet when the Start treaty expired in December, the new treaty was still not ready.
 ''This is a marginal no-brainer, and it takes forever and will be a semidifficult ratification fight,'' said George Perkovich, a specialist on nonproliferation at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a research institute in Washington. ''This is complicated stuff.''
 Some administration officials said both sides had been overly optimistic about how quickly they could transform a relationship that had more baggage than they initially figured. ''It's hard for us to learn how to dance together again,'' said a senior administration official, who like others was not authorized to speak on the record in the middle of a delicate negotiation.
 The American officials said the answer might be persistence and patience. One example is an agreement that Mr. Obama and Mr. Medvedev reached in Moscow in July to allow American troops and weapons to fly through Russian airspace en route to Afghanistan. Months later, virtually no flights had flown amid bureaucratic delays.
 In the past few months, though, the planes have begun crossing Russian territory -- about 100 so far, according to two American officials, roughly one or two a day. The idea of American military units' flying through Russia represents a symbolic milestone for countries that spent four decades preparing to go to war against each other.
 Likewise, the White House expresses confidence that it will have Russian support on a United Nations resolution imposing new sanctions against Iran for not halting its uranium enrichment program. Moscow has supported three such resolutions in the past, but always after making sure they did not have as much bite as the Americans wanted. This time, administration officials said, the Russians are willing to take tougher measures.
 The new treaty remains the elusive target that Mr. Obama hopes will unlock more cooperation. The draft treaty, under 20 pages, has been essentially ready for months. Negotiators are working on the longer protocol that will accompany it, 100 to 150 pages spelling out the details. The treaty will reduce deployed strategic warheads and delivery systems by at least one-quarter.
 But issues like missile defense and the sharing of telemetry keep coming up. The announcement in January that Romania will host part of Mr. Obama's reconfigured antimissile system angered Moscow, which then tried to reintroduce the topic into the negotiations, seeking limits on American plans.
 In the end, the treaty is likely to include a statement in the preamble noting the relationship between offensive and defensive arms, a way of assuaging Russian concerns without agreeing to binding limits, officials said.
 The long delays have prompted second guessing within the administration about how it has handled the Russians, creating friction between the White House and the State Department, and even within the State Department, officials said. 
 Part of what has held the treaty up, said Mr. Perkovich, the nonproliferation specialist, is a calculation by both sides about how much they can get. Does Moscow want the treaty most because it has to cut its arsenal anyway for economic reasons? Does Mr. Obama want it most because he wants momentum heading into next month's meeting?
 ''It's a contest of who needs it most,'' Mr. Perkovich said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (87%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ELLEN O TAUSCHER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



249 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: UConn and the Common Good

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
To start, it should be noted that the Connecticut women's basketball team has been linked to no nefarious doctors in Canada. It did not intentionally cause a Nascar crash, nor has it been suspended by the N.H.L. for crushing someone's head. It played no apparent role in the global financial crisis. 
 All the Huskies have done is win 71 straight games and turn women's college basketball into their own sandbox, spurring questions about whether they are harming their sport by being too good. Richard Deitsch of SI.com delves into the topic and finds Rutgers Coach C. Vivian Stringer on the hurting-the-sport side. Others are starting to compare them to the U.C.L.A. teams molded by John Wooden. They have gotten close enough to make a list of the 11 most impressive winning streaks in history. Your view will be understandably colored by your opinion of Coach Geno Auriemma's hair.
 In men's basketball, the conference tournaments are in full swing, with Saint Mary's dealing a blow to bubble teams everywhere by knocking off Gonzaga in the West Coast Conference tournament. The money conferences -- with the Big East being Exhibit A -- are set to swipe the stage from the little guys in the coming days.
 The other sure signs of spring are hopeful baseball stories about teams like the Nationals, with Tracy Ringolsby of Foxsports.com hoping the future ace Stephen Strasburg benefits from a low-key start in the minors, and the Reds, for whom the Cuban pitcher Aroldis Chapman wowed people in his first spring training start. Count Joe Posnanski of SI.com among the wowed, while Terence Moore of Fanhouse.com wonders how he ended up in Cincinnati, the Siberia of baseball.
 Cincinnati is not quite the Siberia of football -- although it can get nearly that cold -- and is now entertaining the possibility of expanding its borders to hold the egos of both Chad Ochocinco and Terrell Owens as members of the Bengals. That may require expanding by several time zones. Chicago is still basking in free-agency glow, with Julius Peppers trying to win over his new neighbors one bottle of Champagne at a time.
 The N.H.L. is basking in its post-Olympic glow as long as it can get away with it, with WSJ.com's Matthew Futterman wondering if a goalie (specifically the Olympic most valuable player Ryan Miller) can actually be a superstar. He means somewhere other than Canada, of course, where people are still busy looking for Sidney Crosby's Olympic equipment. Reebok has offered a $10,000 reward. This is preferable to thinking about the league's mess in Phoenix, where it is now suing the former Coyotes owner Jerry Moyes, or preferable to contemplating Versus's less-than-sharp hockey acumen, including not only misspelling Tampa Bay star Steven Stamkos's name in a graphic but also using the wrong picture.
 At least it is not Nascar, which is trying to get out of the corner it painted itself into with its ''Boys, have at it'' credo, which led to Carl Edwards's intentionally causing a life-threatening crash.
 Maybe it should ask the Connecticut women's team. They seem to have everything figured out.
 Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); BASEBALL (89%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (68%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); WEST USA (70%); OHIO, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



250 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Saving the Post Office

 BODY:
Many Americans rely on six-days-a-week mail delivery and expect to have a post office just around the corner. But if the United States Postal Service is going to survive the transition to the Internet age -- without requiring billions of dollars of federal subsidies -- Congress must allow it to cut some services, close some offices and make other sensible changes.
 Since 1970, the Postal Service has been required to pay its own costs. Still, Congress has insisted on the right to make many policy decisions. The Postal Service made a profit until 2006. Since then, declining mail volumes -- as more Americans use e-mail and pay their bills online -- and the demands of its retiree health benefit system have dragged it deeper and deeper into the red. Last year, it delivered 17 percent fewer pieces of mail than in 2006 and reported losses of $1.4 billion, this year it expects to lose $7 billion. Postmaster General John Potter warns that unless the service takes major steps to bring its costs into line, it will lose $238 billion over the next 10 years. To avoid insolvency -- or falling back into the taxpayers' lap -- he is asking Congress for the flexibility to implement an ambitious plan to reconfigure services and cut costs. 
 Not every idea is sound, and Congress should retain oversight to ensure that all Americans still have reliable mail delivery. But Congress should grant the service most of the authority it requests.
 Mr. Potter estimates that ending mail delivery on Saturday -- when the volume is 17 percent lower than on weekdays -- would save $40 billion over the next decade. He wants to close some yet-to-be-announced number of post offices and replace them with cheaper alternatives, such as automated kiosks and postal windows at supermarkets and other retailers. He is also asking for more flexibility to raise the rates of some services to meet changes in demand and costs.
 These seem reasonable compromises considering the magnitude of the challenge. They have to be done the right way. Post offices should not be closed in rural areas and other hard-to-reach places that do not have alternatives. The Postal Service also must work with other government agencies to ensure that people who receive crucial mail -- such as Social Security checks -- on Saturday, receive it on Friday rather than on Monday.
 The service says these proposed changes, dramatic as they are, would still fill only part of the gap. Mr. Potter believes it can find other savings and new profits by expanding product offerings -- like new direct-mail products for small businesses -- and cutting labor costs, including by hiring more part-time workers and reducing full-time employees through attrition. Some 300,000 postal workers are expected to retire over the next decade -- about half the Postal Service's entire staff.
 Some of the proposed changes are flawed. Mr. Potter is hoping to save another $50 billion over the next decade by stopping contributions to a fund to pay for future retiree health benefits, covering them instead on a pay-as-you-go basis. As many workers have discovered, unfinanced promises of future benefits have a troubling tendency to become worthless in times of economic stress.
 Still, the service might be allowed to reduce its annual contribution. Right now, by law, it has to make contributions consistent with a 7 percent annual rate of inflation for health care costs, while Medicare uses a rate of 5 percent to 6 percent to project future benefits. 
 Even with the Internet, Americans will need mail services for packages, legal documents and, yes, letters for years to come. In some areas of the country, the Postal Service is the only service available. And all Americans should not have to rely solely on private businesses for anything as fundamental as mail delivery. 
 That means that Congress has a straightforward choice: It can give the Postal Service some more flexibility to run like a business. Or it can start subsidizing it to the tune of $10 billion-plus a year. We vote for flexibility. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (72%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (65%); NEW PRODUCTS (62%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



251 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: The Lithium Chase

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
For many years, few metals drew bigger yawns from mining executives than lithium, a lightweight element long associated mostly with mood-stabilizing drugs.
 Suddenly, the yawns are being replaced by eurekas. As awareness spreads that lithium is a crucial ingredient for hybrid and electric cars, a global hunt is under way for new supplies of the metal. 
 Toyota Tsusho, the material supplier for the big Japanese automaker, announced a joint venture in January with the Australian miner Orocobre to develop a $100 million lithium project in Argentina. That deal came only days after Magna International, the Canadian car parts company that is helping develop a battery-powered version of the Ford Focus, announced that it was investing $10 million in a small Canadian lithium firm that also has projects in Argentina. 
 They were the latest in a series of deals and projects announced over the last year, reflecting a new urgency among companies to assure themselves future supplies of the metal.
 ''There is a sea change under way,'' James D. Calaway, the chairman of Orocobre, said. ''We are at the front end potentially of a very significant increase in the demand for lithium for the emerging electric transportation sector.''
 Mr. Calaway added, however, that the timing of any increase in lithium supply and demand was difficult to predict in large part because electric cars had yet to take off in any big way.
 About 60 mining companies have begun feasibility studies in Argentina, Serbia and Nevada that could lead to more than $1 billion in new lithium projects in the next several years, while dozens of smaller projects are being proposed in China, Finland, Mexico and Canada.
 The companies are competing for construction financing, and the future of most of the projects will depend on how popular electric cars eventually become. That is an open question since batteries remain expensive, recharging stations need to be developed, and consumer taste for cars that depend on regular stops at electric outlets remains untested.
 ''It's moving so fast,'' said Edward R. Anderson, president of TRU Group, a consultancy firm that specializes in the lithium industry. ''There are a lot of people throwing money into this, and a lot of people are going to lose their money.''
 In the meantime the four biggest current producers, which mine and otherwise gather lithium in Chile, Argentina and Australia, say they are planning to expand long-running projects as future demand warrants.
 In Bolivia, which has almost half of the world's reserves, the leftist government is building a pilot production plant and is drilling exploratory holes. That Bolivia is a remote, unstable country often hostile to foreign investment has helped spur interest in producing lithium in neighboring Argentina and Chile, in Australia, and in the United States. Several Canadian and American companies are making claims about future production prospects in Nevada, though few analysts foresee large-scale production from that state.
 While most experts are skeptical that meaningful amounts of lithium can be produced domestically, they maintain that adequate supplies will be available from sources outside of Bolivia for many years to come and note that the biggest producer, Chile, is a dependable American ally.
 Most of the lithium market serves a variety of industrial applications. About a quarter of all lithium produced is used for energy storage, in everything from cellphones to laptop computers to digital cameras.
 That proportion stands to increase sharply if battery-powered cars take off. Lithium-ion batteries are the favored battery type for electric and hybrid vehicles because they carry more energy with less weight than other materials and because they lose their charge more slowly. They store about three times as much as energy per pound as a nickel-metal hybrid battery.
 Lithium is found in trace amounts in many places, but it is being produced commercially mainly by two methods. One is through mining and processing, a relatively expensive method that produces the metal mostly for glass, ceramics and the manufacturing of television tubes. 
 The more economical and significant method is through evaporation of lithium-containing brines, mostly in salt flats in the highland areas in South America and western China. Lithium reservoirs have been formed over millions of years in highland bowls, after rivers and hot springs washed over lithium-laden rocks and leached the mineral from them. Producers drill wells into the salt flats and pump the brine into evaporation ponds. With the removal of water, the lithium content in the brine increases to a level where it can be collected and shipped to a chemical plant for processing. 
 The industry leader in this method of production is Sociedad Quimica y Minera, a Chilean fertilizer company in which the Potash Corporation, a Canadian fertilizer giant, holds a major stake. The other important producers in Latin America include FMC Corporation and Chemetall, a subsidiary of Rockwood Holdings, which also operates a small brine reserve in Nevada. 
 Recycling of lithium from used batteries could become an important source, in which case ''the demand for virgin material would be reduced,'' said R. Keith Evans, a geologist who serves as a consultant to lithium producers. Up to 50 percent of the lithium in used batteries may be recycled in the future.
 But Mr. Evans added, ''The big question is the timing of demand. Are you going to build a plant before a market has developed?'' 
 By the standards of traditional gold and copper booms, the increase in interest in lithium is still muted among big mining companies. Supplies of lithium are plentiful for now, and the price of lithium chemicals actually declined at the end of last year because of the economic slowdown. The price for lithium carbonate, the basic lithium compound used in batteries, had been around $5,000 a ton for the last five years or so, and has leveled at about $4,000 since October. 
 But with several major auto companies promising to market electric cars around the world over the next few years, demand may be poised to increase. Nissan will introduce the Leaf, a five-passenger electric car, and General Motors will be introduce the Chevrolet Volt, a plug-in hybrid, within the next year. 
 ''We believe that demand is slated to rise dramatically,'' according to a recent report by the investment adviser Byron Capital Markets, predicting a 40 percent increase in demand for lithium from 2009 to 2014. Credit Suisse, in a recent report, predicted a 10.3 percent annual growth in demand for lithium between 2009 and 2020.
 ''You could probably go further out than that and see similar growth rates,'' John P. McNulty, a co-author of the Credit Suisse report, said. ''It's going to be a big industry.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about increasing demand for lithium, an element that is crucial for the lithium-ion batteries favored for hybrid and electric cars, referred incorrectly to another battery used in such vehicles. That battery is known as nickel-metal hydride, not hybrid.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marcelo Castro, an engineer for Bolivia's lithium plant, inspected an evaporating pool. The country holds almost half the world's lithium reserves. (B1)
 Workers tested lithium at the Bolivian plant last November. At left, lithium in the Uyuni Salt Flats in Bolivia. Shaky Bolivian politics have caused companies to invest in mines elsewhere. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NOAH FRIEDMAN-RUDOVSKY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (90%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (63%); JOINT VENTURES (56%)

COMPANY: MAGNA INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); OROCOBRE LTD (58%); TOYOTA TSUSHO CORP (57%)

TICKER: MGA (NYSE) (84%); MG (TSX) (84%); ORL (TSX) (58%); ORE (ASX) (58%); 8015 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (58%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (58%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (58%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (58%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (58%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (58%); NAICS333519 ROLLING MILL & OTHER METALWORKING MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3549 METALWORKING MACHINERY, NEC (57%)

PERSON: BRADBURY H ANDERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%) BOLIVIA (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHILE (92%); CANADA (91%); CHINA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); SERBIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



252 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Health Care's Obstacle: No Will to Cut

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
For anyone who cares about medical costs -- which is to say anyone who cares about the take-home pay of American families or about the budget deficit -- President Obama's health reform plan is a terribly mixed bag.
 It does so much less than the ideal plan would do. It would not come close to eliminating Medicare's long-term budget deficit. It would reduce that deficit only if a future Congress did not tinker with the various taxes and spending cuts scheduled to be phased in over the next decade. 
 On the other hand, the plan would make progress in all sorts of areas. Insurance exchanges would create more competition. A Medicare oversight board would gain authority over reimbursement rates. Hospitals that committed certain medical errors -- harmful, costly errors -- would face financial penalties.
 So which matters more: what the plan does, or what it fails to do? It's a tough call, and the answer depends on what you see as the alternative to the current plan. 
 If the past year of health care debate has offered a single lesson, it's that the politics of cutting costs are miserable. We pay for most of our health care indirectly, through taxes or paycheck deductions, which lulls us into thinking that the care is somehow free. As the Stanford economist Victor Fuchs notes, many Americans say they want to control costs -- but oppose just about any policy to do so. It should be no surprise that politicians do the same. 
 In recent weeks, critics have done a nice job highlighting flaws in the White House plan (which Congress is now turning into an actual bill). What the critics have not done nearly so well, however, is explain which politically realistic plan they prefer.
 Paul Ryan, the top Republican on the House Budget Committee, has admirably produced a detailed alternative to the Democrats' plan. It would balance the budget by getting rid of Medicare for everyone under 55 and replacing it with a voucher system. When I recently asked another high-ranking Republican what he thought about the Ryan plan, however, he replied, ''Paul is very thoughtful.'' Follow-up questions did not yield further details. 
 So I agree that health reform should do more to reduce spiraling medical costs. But saying so doesn't qualify as hard-headed fiscal realism. In fact, it's the easy thing to say. The bigger issue is how policy makers can achieve the goal, given the political realities.
 Fortunately, they still have an opportunity to do better.
 On the surface, the Senate election in Massachusetts in January should have been great for cost control. In the campaign, Scott Brown, the Republican, criticized Congress for not doing more about costs. Yet his victory failed to strengthen the cost-control crowd. Instead, the opposite happened.
 With health reform's fate suddenly in doubt, Mr. Obama lost much of his ability to arm-twist the political left into accepting an idea it hated: reducing the federal government's huge subsidies for high-cost insurance plans by taxing those plans. Labor leaders have warned that the tax would hurt workers. That isn't impossible, though research has shown that the highest-cost plans offer no better care than merely good plans. Mainly, the subsidies appear to benefit drug makers, hospitals and insurers. But to keep House liberals in the fold, the White House delayed the tax until 2018.
 Conservative Blue Dog Democrats did not leap to the tax's defense because they're not sure about it, either. Many need union support in the midterm elections. Many are also struggling with the classic dilemma on health spending. They genuinely would like to control costs. They just don't like a lot of the specific ideas for cutting spending or raising taxes. Like all of us, they want to lose weight without eating less or exercising more.
 This is why the Blue Dogs have never gotten behind a package of measures that would hold down costs.
 The same is true of centrist Republicans like Olympia Snowe, George Voinovich and Mr. Brown. And conservative activists have done nothing to demand that Republicans support cost control. Indeed, the activists have tried to punish fiscally conservative Republicans. 
 Senator Robert Bennett, a Utah Republican, helped write a bill to give people more choice of insurance plans, creating more competition, and to reduce government subsidies for insurance. But he made the mistake of working with Democrats on the proposal (which went nowhere). Today, Mr. Bennett is at risk of losing the Republican nomination to a candidate backed by the Tea Party. 
 What we're left with, then, is this:
 A bill that would spend about $950 billion over 10 years to help the uninsured and small-business employees buy insurance. Initially, the bill relies on accounting gimmicks to cover these costs. Most important, the insurance expansion does not start until 2014, holding down the 10-year cost. The taxes and Medicare and Medicaid cuts in the bill are then big enough to pay for the bill.
 Over time, however, the cost savings are likely to rise more quickly than the spending, more than making up for the gimmicks.
 The Medicare oversight board will crack down on unnecessary tests. Medicare pilot programs will grow. The insurance exchanges will spur competition. In the second decade, the Congressional Budget Office projects the bill would cut about $1 trillion from the deficit.
 Critics have said, correctly, that this prediction might not come true. If the budget office took account of the uncertainty and the gimmicks, the $1 trillion savings estimate might well shrink. But to suggest that the most likely outcome is only marginal cost savings, or even cost increases, requires a selective reading of the evidence.
 Over its history, the Congressional Budget Office has tended to the effect of cost-reduction efforts in Medicare. As doctors and hospitals adjust to new rules, they figure out how to be more efficient than economists expected. And Congress, in most previous cases, has not overturnedlegislation that phases in changes -- like the 2018 start date for the high-cost insurance tax. Looking at the whole picture, The Financial Times has said that the bill, ''though flawed, is in fact a great step forward.''
 As I mentioned above, Congress and the White House can still do better. Mr. Obama and the Blue Dogs could throw their weight behind some popular cost-cutting measures, like the penalties for medical errors. Or they could back a proposal from Michael Bennet, a Colorado Democrat, that would push Congress to make up for any savings that did not materialize. 
 Beyond these last-minute improvements, I see only two good options for anyone who wants to be fiscally conservative.
 The first is to say we cannot afford to cover the uninsured. Our health care efforts should instead start with building support for specific measures that can be shown to save costs. Who are the members of Congress who will support these measures, and how soon can they be passed? 
 The second option is to say that expanding insurance would bring enormous benefits. It would allow people to get treatments -- diabetes care, dialysis, chemotherapy, you name it -- that they are now skipping. According to one conservative estimate, universal coverage would save ''probably thousands if not tens of thousands'' of lives a year.
 Yet we can't afford simply to expand insurance. We also need to pay for the expansion -- and to pay for the health system we already have. Some attempts at cost control will make us uncomfortable, because we can't be sure that they will cut back only on wasteful care. All attempts will involve uncertainty. 
 But that's unavoidable. We all wish that Congress could summon the wisdom to come up with a politically popular plan that would sharply cut costs. Waiting for that day to arrive, though, doesn't seem very conservative.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama held a bipartisan meeting last month to try to find agreement on health care. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); PAUL RYAN (79%); SCOTT BROWN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



253 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Payday Loans Get Exemption In Senate Bill

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN; Kitty Bennett contributed research.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senator Bob Corker, the Tennessee Republican who is playing a crucial role in bipartisan negotiations over financial regulation, pressed to remove a provision from draft legislation that would have empowered federal authorities to crack down on payday lenders, people involved in the talks said. The industry is politically influential in his home state and a significant contributor to his campaigns, records show.
 The Senate Banking Committee's chairman, Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, proposed legislation in November that would give a new consumer protection agency the power to write and enforce rules governing payday lenders, debt collectors and other financial companies that are not part of banks. 
 Late last month, Mr. Corker pressed Mr. Dodd to scale back substantially the power that the consumer protection agency would have over such companies, according to three people involved in the talks. 
 Mr. Dodd went along, these people said, in an effort to reach a bipartisan deal with Mr. Corker after talks had broken down between Democrats and the committee's top Republican, Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama. The individuals, both Democrats and Republicans, spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the negotiations. 
 Under the proposal agreed to by Mr. Dodd and Mr. Corker, the new consumer agency could write rules for nonbank financial companies like payday lenders. It could enforce such rules against nonbank mortgage companies, mainly loan originators or servicers, but it would have to petition a body of regulators for authority over payday lenders and other nonbank financial companies. 
 Consumer advocates said that writing rules without the inherent power to enforce them would leave the agency toothless.
 Mr. Corker said in an interview that he had played a role in shaping that section of the legislation, but said people should withhold judgment about the treatment of payday lenders and other companies until the bill was made public. 
 Asked whether the industry's campaign contributions to him had shaped his thinking about the issue, he replied, ''Categorically, absolutely not.''
 After banks, payday lenders have been perhaps the most vocal sector of the financial services industry in fighting off efforts at federal regulation. The industry's trade group estimated that payday loan companies contributed $10 billion to the economy in 2007, and directly employed 77,000 people.
 W. Allan Jones, who started Check Into Cash, in Cleveland, Tenn., in 1993, has been a longtime friend and supporter of Mr. Corker's. The company says it is now the country's third-largest payday-lending chain, with 1,100 stores in 30 states. Payday loans are short-term, high-interest loans -- typically 400 percent on an annualized basis -- to help borrowers cover expenses until their next paycheck. Many take out more loans, digging themselves deeper into debt. 
 Mr. Jones, his relatives and his employees have given money to Mr. Dodd, Mr. Shelby and other members of the Banking Committee, but have been particularly active donors to Mr. Corker, records show. They have contributed at least $31,000 to his campaigns since 2001, when he was running for mayor of Chattanooga.
 In 1999, Mr. Jones and other payday lenders started the Community Financial Services Association to lobby against regulation. The group's political action committee gave $1,000 to Mr. Corker last year.
 State lawmakers and regulators in recent years have moved to rein in the practices of payday lenders, which watchdog groups say often charge exorbitant fees for low-income consumers with little financial sophistication.
 Last year, the White House proposed the creation of a consumer protection agency to guard against lending excesses. The proposal included the first comprehensive federal plan to regulate the industry. 
 In December, the House passed a regulatory overhaul that provided for a new consumer agency with power to write and enforce rules for banks and other financial institutions, like payday lenders. 
 In 2006, Congress adopted a bill championed by Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, to cap at 36 percent the annual percentage rate on loans to active-duty members of the military and their families, a step that primarily affected payday lenders. In 2008 and 2009, Mr. Durbin proposed extending that cap to loans to all borrowers.
 The industry says a cap would be devastating to its profitability. 
 On Monday, the nation's largest payday lender, Advance America of Spartanburg, S.C., said in a filing to the Securities and Exchange Commission that ''any federal law that would impose a national 36 percent A.P.R. limit on our services, if enacted, would likely eliminate our ability to continue our current operations.''
 According to the filing, the industry began to expand significantly in the late 1990s because of the low cost of entry and fairly loose state regulations. ''However, due to market saturation and to federal and state legislative and regulatory challenges, we believe the cash advance services industry has largely stopped growing in number of centers in the United States,'' Advance America said.
 Mr. Corker's campaign received $6,500 in the last two years from Advance America's founder, George D. Johnson Jr., its chief executive, William M. Webster IV, and its political action committee. 
 A report last year by Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a nonpartisan watchdog group, found that the payday industry increased spending on lobbying to $2.1 million in 2008, from $730,000 in 2005.
 Steven Schlein, a spokesman for the Community Financial Services Association, said the industry should not be dragged into the regulatory reform.
 ''The banks caused the financial meltdown, and they're spending millions and millions to spare themselves from tighter regulation while throwing the consumer lending industry under the bus,'' he said. ''They're trying to divert attention to us.''
 Mr. Corker also issued this statement: ''Our goal in this legislation should be to level the playing field so that the same rules apply to all involved in lending.''
 Consumer groups, however, say that enforcement is crucial to curbing abusive, deceptive or unfair practices. 
 On Tuesday, while Mr. Dodd and Mr. Corker continued negotiating other provisions of the regulatory overhaul -- notably, the extent to which state attorneys general would be able to enforce consumer protection rules against banks -- the Federal Reserve's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, met with National People's Action, an activist group that wants the Fed to restrict the banks it oversees from financing payday lenders.
 Mr. Bernanke, who had met with the group twice before, is trying to fend off proposals in the Senate to strip the Fed of much of its power to supervise banks. A recommitment to protection consumers is part of that strategy.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher J. Dodd, left, Bob Corker, center, and Richard C. Shelby are key banking legislators. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (90%); BOB CORKER (90%); RICHARD SHELBY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



254 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Paterson's No. 2 Sets Broad Plan On Fiscal Crisis

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- New York could borrow billions of dollars to address its urgent budget shortfall and a financial review board would be established to impose new discipline on future spending under a five-year financial rescue plan that Lt. Gov. Richard Ravitch will present Wednesday.
 The plan would also require significant spending cuts and abolish some of Albany's much-criticized budgeting practices, forcing lawmakers and the governor to account for how they will pay for spending expansions when they are approved.
 Mr. Ravitch, who was asked by Gov. David A. Paterson to draw up the blueprint, is seeking to curb the runaway spending that has helped plunge New York into fiscal crisis. Despite the recession and talk of fiscal austerity, state spending this year soared by 10 percent over the previous year's budget. 
 The state faces a $9 billion shortfall for the fiscal year that begins April 1 and a $15 billion gap for the following year. 
 The plan, which requires legislative approval, seeks to address New York's immediate cash needs by permitting the state to sell bonds to help cover operating expenses. But those bonds would be contingent on the state's producing a balanced budget, and the newly established board would have the authority to determine whether the budget meets that requirement. 
 In addition, the plan would limit how much could be borrowed -- probably 1 percent or 2 percent of the total budget, so lawmakers do not rely on borrowing to shirk difficult decisions on spending cuts, though any increase in borrowing will be controversial.
 It would represent drastic change to how Albany has operated for decades. But the severity of the fiscal problems, and Mr. Ravitch's stature as one of the leading figures in the rescue of New York City in the 1970s, have legislative leaders and other top state officials examining the proposal seriously.
 Even though the plan would take away some authority from lawmakers, Sheldon Silver, the most powerful Democrat in the Legislature, said it would be carefully considered by his colleagues. 
 ''It's not D.O.A.,'' said Mr. Silver, the Assembly speaker. ''I think there's too much respect for Dick Ravitch in that regard, and he's worked hard to come up with a plan that works.''
 Mr. Ravitch declined to provide details on his proposal on Tuesday, but the plan was described by a number of people who had been briefed on it. 
 Currently, New York generally borrows money for capital expenses but not for continuing operating costs. Under Mr. Ravitch's proposal, if the control board declared the budget to be out of balance, lawmakers and the governor would have an opportunity to revise it and address the imbalance. If they failed to, the bonds issued to address the operating budget shortfall would go into default, giving the board considerable leverage, because of the dire consequences of default. 
 Elizabeth Lynam, deputy research director at the Citizens Budget Commission, which advocates for lower spending, said it might be difficult for lawmakers to swallow such a change.
 ''The Ravitch plan can't be used as an excuse to avoid cutting spending,'' Ms. Lynam said. ''So it really does have to come with considerable strings attached, and those are going to be tough strings for the Legislature to tie onto themselves. The last thing we want right now is for them to see a giant exit sign in the form of deficit financing and they run for it.''
 The five members of the review board proposed by Mr. Ravitch would be appointed by the governor, the legislative leaders and the state comptroller. 
 Mr. Ravitch's plan would also require the state to adopt ''generally accepted accounting principles'' for its budget process, a step many budget watchdogs say is long overdue. And he is proposing to move the end of the state's fiscal year from the end of March to the end of June, putting New York in line with other states and allowing budget planners to gain a better picture of tax collections when drafting a spending blueprint. 
 With the governor mired in investigations and scandal, lawmakers are increasingly looking to Mr. Ravitch to fill a power vacuum, or at least help chart a way out of budget negotiations that barely seem to have started, even though there are only three weeks left in the fiscal year. 
 On Monday, Mr. Paterson raised concerns about the borrowing permitted in the Ravitch plan, while acknowledging that he had not been briefed on the details. By Tuesday morning, after he met with Mr. Ravitch, his stance had softened somewhat. 
 ''No governor should be signing off on borrowing by itself right now, because borrowing is what got us into this mess,'' the governor said at an appearance in Albany on Tuesday. ''But if we were able to constrain our spending, then obviously bond holders and credit rating agencies would look more favorably on us.'' 
 Switching to generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, would also mark a significant shift. While the principles are used by public corporations and in New York City's budgeting, New York and most other states prefer what is known as cash budgeting. 
 The change would make it much more difficult for the state to defer budget problems into future years by holding off on paying bills. 
 Austin Shafran, a spokesman for the Democratic majority in the Senate, said the Senate leader, John L. Sampson, believed ''it should be viewed in sum, not in parts, and he wants to discuss it with his conference before moving forward.''
 The board proposed by Mr. Ravitch will inevitably be likened to the panel that oversaw New York City's finances beginning in 1975. It would lack that board's sweeping authority to reject financial plans or labor contracts, powers that led former Mayor Edward I. Koch to once complain that the city had been reduced to an ''indentured servant.'' 
 The state has the power to impose such severe measures on municipalities; Mr. Ravitch, by contrast, will try to persuade the governor and lawmakers to agree to more moderate restraints on their powers. 
 Certainly, the state is in tough fiscal shape. The governor and officials in the Budget Division are warning that there could be another cash crunch in late May and early June, when the state has to pay a number of large bills, including $2.6 billion in school aid and $3.5 billion in Medicaid. That could lead the state to delay making some of those payments. 
 And some of the revenues the state was depending on are in serious doubt. The state hoped to generate $300 million from its recent move to award video gambling machines at the Aqueduct racetrack in Queens, a deal now mired in a federal investigation. New York City officials have balked at a state plan to raid $200 million from the Battery Park City Authority. And Mr. Paterson's plan to raise $465 million from a new tax on sodas is facing stiff opposition in the Legislature.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lt. Gov. Richard Ravitch at the Capitol on Tuesday. Lawmakers have been looking to Mr. Ravitch to fill a power vacuum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); BOND ISSUES (73%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



255 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: It's Up to Iraqis Now. Good Luck.

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Of all the pictures I saw from the Iraqi elections last weekend, my favorite was on nytimes.com: an Iraqi mother holding up her son to let him stuff her ballot into the box. I loved that picture. Being able to freely cast a ballot for the candidate of your choice is still unusual for Iraqis and for that entire region. That mother seemed to be saying: When I was a child, I never got to vote. I want to live in a world where my child will always be able to. 
 God bless her. This was a very good day for Iraq. 
 To say that mere voting or an election or two makes Iraq a success story would obviously be mistaken. An election does not a democracy make -- and Iraq's politicians still have yet to prove that they are up to governing, nation-building and both establishing and abiding by the rule of law. But this election is a big deal because Iraqis -- with the help of the U.N., the U.S. military and the Obama team, particularly Vice President Joe Biden -- overcame two huge obstacles. 
 They overcame an array of sectarian disputes that repeatedly threatened to derail this election. And they came out to vote -- Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds -- despite the bombs set off by Al Qaeda and the dead-end Baathists who desperately want to keep the democracy project in Iraq from succeeding. This latter point is particularly crucial. The only way Al Qaeda, Baathism and violent Islamism will truly be defeated is when Arabs and Muslims themselves -- not us -- show they are willing to fight and die for a more democratic, tolerant and progressive future. Al Qaeda desperately wanted the U.S. project in Iraq to fail, but the Iraqi people just keep on keeping it alive. 
 And how about you, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran? How are you feeling today? Yes, I am sure you have your proxies in Iraq. But I am also sure you know what some of your people are quietly saying: ''How come we Iranian-Persian-Shiites -- who always viewed ourselves as superior to Iraqi-Arab-Shiites -- can only vote for a handful of pre-chewed, pre-digested, 'approved' candidates from the supreme leader, while those lowly Iraqi Shiites, who have been hanging around with America for seven years, get to vote for whomever they want?'' Unlike in Tehran, Iraqis actually count the votes. This will subtly fuel the discontent in Iran.
 Yes, the U.S.'s toppling of Saddam Hussein helped Iran expand its influence into the Arab world. Saddam's Iraq was a temporary iron-fisted bulwark against Iranian expansion. But if Iraq has any sort of decent outcome -- and becomes a real Shiite-majority, multiethnic democracy right next door to the phony Iranian version -- it will be a source of permanent pressure on the Iranian regime. It will be a constant reminder that ''Islamic democracy'' -- the rigged system the Iranians set up -- is nonsense. Real ''Islamic democracy'' is just like any other democracy, except with Muslims voting. 
 Former President George W. Bush's gut instinct that this region craved and needed democracy was always right. It should have and could have been pursued with much better planning and execution. This war has been extraordinarily painful and costly. But democracy was never going to have a virgin birth in a place like Iraq, which has never known any such thing. 
 Some argue that nothing that happens in Iraq will ever justify the costs. Historians will sort that out. Personally, at this stage, I only care about one thing: that the outcome in Iraq be positive enough and forward-looking enough that those who have actually paid the price -- in lost loved ones or injured bodies, in broken homes or broken lives, be they Iraqis or Americans or Brits -- see Iraq evolve into something that will enable them to say that whatever the cost, it has given freedom and decent government to people who had none. 
 That, though, will depend on Iraqis and their leaders. It was hopeful to see the strong voter turnout -- 62 percent -- and the fact that some of the largest percentage of voting occurred in regions, like Kirkuk and Nineveh Provinces, that are hotly disputed. It means people are ready to use politics to resolve disputes, not just arms.
 We can only hope so. President Obama has handled his Iraq inheritance deftly, but he is committed to the withdrawal timetable. As such, our influence there will be less decisive every day. We need Iraqi leaders to prove to their people that they are not just venal elites out to seize the spoils of power more than to seize this incredible opportunity to remake Iraq. We need to see real institution-builders emerge, including builders of a viable justice system and economy. And we need to be wary that too big an army and too much oil can warp any regime.
 Iraq will be said to have a decent outcome not just if that young boy whose mother let him cast her ballot gets to vote one day himself. It will be a decent outcome only if his life chances improve -- because he lives in a country with basic security, basic services, real jobs and decent governance.
 I wish I could say that that was inevitable. It is not. But it is no longer unattainable, and I for one will keep rooting for it to happen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); AL-QAEDA (86%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); BALLOTS (78%); RELIGION (75%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (77%) IRAQ (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



256 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 10, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Calls Increase For Crackdown On Derivatives

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING and MATTHEW SALTMARSH; Jack Ewing contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs had a bright idea for its clients: buy credit-default swaps -- those controversial instruments that helped trip up the American International Group -- in case certain nations ran into financial trouble.
 That advice, contained in a confidential report prepared by the bank last August, turned out to be prescient. It arrived months before Greece and its staggering debts became the big story in the financial markets. The report, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times, warned that the risks posed by spiraling government debts might be graver than people realized. 
 Now, some European leaders are pointing fingers at the very financial instruments that Goldman was recommending. They insist that credit-default swaps -- and the traders who wield them -- have worsened the problems in Greece and elsewhere. Calls are growing for the United States and Europe to crack down on speculative trading in general and on such swaps in particular. 
 On Tuesday, as the Greek prime minister, George A. Papandreou, met with President Obama in Washington, the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, added her voice to the chorus calling for closer scrutiny of derivatives. The president of the European Commission, Jose Manuel Barroso, also weighed in, saying his office would closely examine certain types of swaps trades that he called ''purely speculative.'' 
 ''If needed, the commission will use the competition powers it has in that matter,'' Mr. Barroso said, speaking at the European Parliament in Strasbourg. 
 But even among policy makers, the exact role of credit-default swaps -- which essentially provide insurance in the event a company or government defaults on its debts -- remains the subject of fierce debate. Germany's financial services regulator, known as BaFin, said Tuesday that despite all the hand-wringing it had found no evidence that speculators were using swaps to bet aggressively against Greece. Instead, BaFin said, the evidence suggested that most investors were trying to use the instruments to hedge their risks, much the way farmers use futures to guard against a sudden plunge in crop prices. 
 But in a speech in New York, Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, singled out credit-default swaps as directly contributing to the financial crisis and needing comprehensive reform.
 ''The 2008 financial crisis had many chapters, but credit-default swaps played a lead role throughout the story,'' he said. ''We need broad regulatory reform of over-the-counter derivatives to best lower risk and promote transparency in the marketplace.'' He said credit-default swaps had ''unique features that require additional consideration.''
 The criticism of credit-default swaps stems, in part, from the multiple and at times seemingly conflicted roles that investment banks like Goldman Sachs often play in the markets. 
 Over the last decade, Goldman and others helped the Greek government legally mask its debts so the nation appeared to comply with budget rules governing its membership in the euro, Europe's common currency. In that role, Goldman advised Greece and, in return, collected hundreds of millions of dollars in fees from Athens. 
 But, just as the true extent of Greece debts began to worry investors, Goldman put on another hat. Last July, it sent clients a 48-page primer on credit-default swaps entitled ''C.D.S. 101.'' The report said that credit-default swaps enabled investors ''to short credit easily'' -- that is, to bet against certain borrowers. The report made no mention of Greece. 
 Goldman followed up with its August report, issued by its hedge fund research unit, which said the price of swaps ''may be too cheap as it may underestimate the risks to developed countries who have recently issued large amounts of debt.'' 
 ''Buy C.D.S. of developed sovereigns,'' the report said. Again, no countries were singled out. 
 Despite such advice, Goldman promptly went back to work for the Greek government. Since last September, the bank played a role in underwriting more than $33 billion of new bonds for Greece, Spain and Britain, according to data compiled by Dealogic. Those three countries are among the most heavily indebted developed nations, as measured by their debts relative to economic output. 
 Goldman, in a statement, said its reports merely outlined a variety of trading strategies. The bank said it saw no conflicts in its various roles. 
 ''It is not a conflict to sell new products on behalf of clients while suggesting to other clients, who may have different opinions and objectives, that they may want to buy insurance to protect themselves,'' Goldman said. 
 Andrew Ang, a finance and economics professor at Columbia Business School, said banks typically tried to maximize their profits across a range of businesses, and that he saw no conflict in Goldman Sachs's approach. 
 Still, others warn that credit-default swaps have evolved from what was essentially an insurance product into instruments of pure speculation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Germany's chancellor, Angela Merkel, with Luxembourg's prime minister, Jean-Claude Juncker, on Tuesday. Mrs. Merkel, in Luxembourg, said a closer scrutiny of derivatives was needed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLAS BOUVY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) ( B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (91%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); FUTURES (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EURO CRISIS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (69%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (55%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (85%); GEORGE PAPANDREOU (79%); JOSE MANUEL BARROSO (54%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); LUXEMBOURG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010



257 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: Goldman Alumni Learn New Lessons Far From Wall Street

BYLINE: By PETER CARBONARA

 BODY:
When people willingly leave their jobs at Goldman Sachs, the once venerated, now often vilified investment bank, it is usually to go run something big in financial services -- like, say, the United States Treasury. 
 But occasionally Goldman alumni leave to start or run coffee houses, children's shoe manufacturers, home security outfits and medical services companies. These entrepreneurs sometimes ask themselves what they could have been thinking. 
 It was to help inexperienced owners that Goldman started a $500 million pro bono project last November called 10,000 Small Businesses. The program is intended to kick-start small businesses, especially in inner cities, by providing applicants with mentoring, scholarships and -- through grants to community development institutions -- investment capital. 
 It has, however, generated a certain amount of eye-rolling for its size (modest, perhaps, for a firm that counts profits in billions) and its timing (after the Congressional testimony by the chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, and before bonus season). 
 Inevitably, former Goldman staff members who are now unjamming their own printers have to learn practical lessons that are not taught on Wall Street. Like many entrepreneurs, they are happy to share their experiences. And not incidentally they also have some ideas about what their old firm can do if it really wants to help small businesses. Here are some examples.
 LEARNING TO ACT QUICKLY Chris Villar, 29, and Aaron Shumaker, 27, became friends as undergraduates at Georgetown University, where they worked on a student-run credit union. They both went on to Goldman: Mr. Shumaker as an analyst covering leveraged loans and high-yield bonds, Mr. Villar as an associate in a unit that took investment stakes in companies for Goldman's own account. 
 Mr. Villar worked on a Goldman investment in a home security company and saw not only opportunity in the highly fragmented industry but also a chance to be an entrepreneur. 
 They teamed up with a third partner, pooled the money they had made on Wall Street, tapped some angel investors and started FrontPoint Security in 2007. Based in Tyson's Corner, Va., the company sells home and small-business security devices and monitoring services, emphasizing do-it-yourself installation and wireless control through P.D.A.'s, cellphones and the Internet. 
 Mr. Villar, the chief executive, places the 50-employee company's 2009 revenue at $5 million to $15 million. The company, Mr. Villar said, has not made any show-stopping mistakes but has experienced a few teachable moments, including the delayed firing of a marketing consultant. 
 While FrontPoint emphasized organic growth based on service and customer word of mouth, the consultant advised the company to invest in online marketing and other ''brand building'' exercises. The advice, Mr. Villar now says, was not necessarily wrong; it just did not fit the strategy and culture he and his partners were trying to build. They stuck with the consultant for about nine months before pulling the plug.
 Mr. Villar says the main lesson is to act quickly when things do not feel right. Mr. Villar also says he and his partners have come to value incentive arrangements over straight fee-for-service deals. ''We try to give them a little skin in the game,'' he says, ''and we like them to feel the pain a little bit when we're collectively wrong.'' 
 As far as advice for Goldman's project, Mr. Villar suggested providing venture financing for entrepreneurs with fresh business plans in industries (like his) that are going through big changes.
 BE WARY OF EXPERTS Rudy Glocker had spent 10 years at Goldman Sachs and was a vice president for institutional equity sales when, he said, ''I knew it was time for me to do something different.'' 
 The opportunity came in 2008 after he had reconnected with Brian Edgeworth, a Harvard Business School classmate, who together with his wife, Angela, had founded Pediped, a company in Henderson, Nev., that makes shoes for small children. The company's main selling point is that its shoes are intended to be healthy for developing feet -- the name is pronounced PEEDY-ped, as in pediatrician. The company has about 40 employees and 2009 revenue that Mr. Glocker puts at $10 million to $25 million. 
 Mr. Glocker joined in August 2008, as managing partner and chief operating officer, investing some of his Goldman earnings. One headache came when a customer, a California retail chain, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. That and the deepening financial crisis had made the shoe company increasingly nervous about the creditworthiness of its clients, mostly small, independently owned shoe stores. Pediped decided to hire an outside vendor to keep tabs on which customers were not paying their bills. 
 The problem, Mr. Glocker said, was that if a formerly good customer, now squeezed by the economy, paid Pediped even a little slowly, the credit company stopped Pediped from shipping it any more goods. As a result, Mr. Glocker said, the company wound up collecting less money and outraging its customers. 
 The first lesson learned, Mr. Glocker said, was that ''when you are in small business and somebody says they are an expert, all your defenses should go up.'' And second, do not trust anybody to take care of your customers.
 His advice for Goldman: Why not create a business that would, for a fee, gather financial data from small companies and generate reliable credit ratings? These ratings, Mr. Glocker said, could be used to securitize loans and sell the resulting bonds. Any role in the creation of such a market would, Mr. Glocker said, allow Goldman to claim: ''We're the friend of Main Street, too.''
 A NEW VOCABULARY Heather Coughlin, 36, left Goldman Sachs in 2009 after nine years with the firm, first in equity sales and finally as a vice president for Hudson Street, a Goldman unit that distributes data created by boutique investment research firms.
 At a Yale Business School seminar in 2008, she met Johanna McChesney, founder of a Boston-based business called Isis Maternity. Recruiting customers through hospitals and doctors in the Boston area, Isis offers childbirth, baby care and other classes to new parents and their children. The business, which also has a retail component -- selling products like strollers, toys and nursing bras -- has four locations in and around Boston and 130 employees. It grossed $6 million to $10 million last year.
 Ms. Coughlin, an Isis customer, had been looking for a career change and began consulting informally with the company. ''We 'dated' for about nine months,'' Ms. Coughlin says. Now she adds, she and Ms. McChesney ''share a brain.''
 As Isis's vice president for business development, Ms. Coughlin's current mission is to find investors and professionalize the young company. Recently she conducted a PowerPoint presentation on Isis's plans for the staff. She powered through the financial jargon that is lingua franca on Wall Street but meaningless to most childbirth professionals. A few days later, a colleague -- ''a kind soul,'' she said -- took her aside and offered a gentle critique. ''She said, 'You have to use different words,' '' Ms. Coughlin recalled.
 In her old office at Goldman, Ms. Coughlin said, she had a view of Boston Harbor. Now she shares a windowless office with a colleague who often jokes, apropos of some discussion on childbirth, ''I bet they didn't say that at Goldman Sachs.''
 What Goldman could do to help small business, she said, is a kind of financing competition -- ''like a real-life version of Donald Trump's show.'' Goldman could invite entrepreneurs to submit business plans, coach them on presentation and finance the most impressive. ''If Goldman Sachs were funding small businesses, who wouldn't want to be part of that?'' she asked. ''I know I would.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rudy Glocker, who spent 10 years at Goldman, now works for Pediped, a children's shoe manufacturer in Henderson, Nev. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (74%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (62%); BRANDING (60%); FOOTWEAR MFG (57%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



258 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: School Costs Fuel a Revolt Over Taxes

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

 BODY:
HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON, N.Y.
 In a village with a shot glass past and an increasingly white wine present, Vanessa Merton speaks both languages. She grew up in this river town back in the days when the streets were packed each morning with workers heading down to the Anaconda Wire and Cable plant. She's now a lawyer of a liberal bent and a law school professor in a town increasingly populated by artists, investment types, writers and others for whom Hastings has become Westchester's hip, artsy un-suburb.
 So it made sense that in the torrent of agitated comments about the proposed school budget -- one letter to the local paper accused antitax activists of ''emotional terrorism'' -- she felt obligated to remind school board members of the class divide churning just beneath the competing narratives of catering to the needs of the schools and catering to the needs of the people who pay for them. 
 ''There are a lot of people who move into this community,'' she said at a noisy board meeting. ''I hate to use the dirty word 'money,' but who have a lot more money and a lot more privilege and a lot better jobs, and you simply aren't thinking about the reality that for some people, you're making it impossible for them to remain in their homes.''
 She added, ''We're not talking about desecrating the sacred Hastings schools.'' But she argued that in the midst of the economic carnage, maybe the old rules of education finance no longer apply.
 This seems an odd place for Round 6,753 of the tax wars. The Hastings district is one of the big draws for the refugees from Brooklyn and the Upper West Side who move here. Taxes are high, but 20 districts in Westchester have higher tax rates. 
 But another appeal of Hastings has been that it's not an upscale monoculture but a diverse village, with working-class families who've been here for generations and newcomers staking their claim. It's mostly the long-term residents, born here or not, who say the financial demands of the school are outstripping people's ability to pay. 
 When you drive around town you see the antitax signs (Quality Education? Yes! $27,500 per student? No!). More than 800 people have signed a petition circulated by the Hastings Alliance for Affordable Taxes calling for lower taxes -- a 5 percent decrease is a figure cited by speakers at public meetings. 
 Particularly among longtime residents, the unemployed and the elderly, there's a feeling that they're not getting any kind of annual raises -- so teachers, administrators and the schools shouldn't either.
 John Brink, a freelance landscaper, said almost everyone he grew up with in town has moved away, and he's worried the taxes will chase him off, too. ''This used to be a blue-collar town; now it's couples with two jobs in New York, a Volvo and a nanny.''
 Hastings is hardly alone. After the national antitax uproar over the past year, it was inevitable that the next round would play out where suburbanites pay most of their taxes -- for the schools. And truth to tell, plenty of relative newcomers with children in the schools are reaching the breaking point, too.
 The local school board seems to have gotten the message, even if people argue over whether it's gotten all of it. The school budget increased by 6.69 percent in 2007-8. The proposed budget calls for flat spending that will require a $1.26 million cut in current expenditures to compensate for cuts in state aid, new mandates and other costs. After the initial roar from the antitax faction, other groups have sprung up to support the board, call for a more temperate debate and look for long-term solutions rather than draconian quick fixes.
 ''WHEN times were good, we operated under the assumptions of rising income levels, rising property levels and rising retirement portfolios,'' said Gabrielle Lesser, the school board president. ''Then the recession hit and we've had to question all those assumptions.''
 But the real question, still unanswered, is whether you can cut school taxes without damaging schools. The average teacher salary in Hastings is $96,597. The superintendent makes $228,000. There are AP courses with a handful of kids, kindergarten Spanish, rich extracurricular arts and sports.
 The issues go way beyond isolated budget lines, to the demands of unfunded mandates, the overreliance on property tax, the logic of small independent districts. Still, there are lots of things no longer affordable. The old normal in public schools may be one of them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); LAWYERS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); BUDGETS (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); TERRORISM (69%); SCHOOL BOARDS (69%); TAX RELIEF (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); FAMILY (65%); PETITIONS (60%); REFUGEES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



259 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: In Japan, No-Frills Airport Lures Bargain Players

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
MITO, Japan -- The sweeping order from the governor was the kind that gives Japanese bureaucrats heart attacks: plans for a three-story airport terminal, painstakingly laid over years, were to be scrapped and replaced with a single-floor layout.
 Amenities would be pared to a minimum. Jetways for boarding would be eliminated; passengers would board planes from the tarmac and perhaps even handle their own check-in luggage. All the ideas were so blasphemous in service-conscious Japan that one local official said his ''mind went blank'' when he heard of the plan.
 Ibaraki Airport, about 53 miles north of Tokyo, opens on Thursday and is intended to be a completely new type of Japanese airport: a no-frills facility that could finally open up Japan's expensive capital city to low-budget airlines.
 Ignored by Japan's big-league carriers, the little airport is going against all odds. It is the 98th airport in a country with a landmass smaller than California's. Ibaraki Prefecture is devoid of tourist attractions, except for an ancient garden, known for its plum blossoms, and famous purveyors of natto, or pungent, fermented soy beans. 
 For now, Ibaraki will offer just two flights a day: one to Seoul by the South Korean carrier Asiana Airlines, and another to Kobe, a medium-size port city in western Japan, by the Japanese budget carrier SkyMark Airlines.
 Even Japan's transportation minister, Seiji Maehara, has been hard-pressed to muster much enthusiasm for the airport's opening, despite its roughly 22 billion yen ($243 million) from local and national coffers. The news media have painted Ibaraki as just another money-losing airport, an example of the useless public works projects that dot Japan's countryside.
 ''I'm not about to beg airlines from Japan and elsewhere to fly to Ibaraki,'' Mr. Maehara said last week. ''The prefecture needs to do what it can to make use of the airport.''
 A closer look at Ibaraki, however, reveals a strategy that could jolt Japan's long-stagnant aviation sector.
 Travel experts say low-cost air services have the potential for growth, especially as incomes rise in big countries like China and India, bringing air travel to more people. Budget carriers have sprung up across the Asia-Pacific region. But Japan's airline industry has been dominated by Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airlines and plagued by expensive and inefficient airports.
 The greater Tokyo area in particular could use another airport to handle flights by low-cost carriers, much like the Stansted or Luton airports outside of London. The city and its surroundings represent the largest metropolitan sprawl in the world with a population of 40 million. It is currently served by two airports, Narita -- which handles most of the international traffic -- and Haneda, which primarily serves domestic flights. Haneda, however, is gaining interest from international carriers because of bilateral agreements that are opening up more slots for overseas flights.
 But capacity is notoriously tight, and that is expected to continue even after expansions at both airports in the next year. Strict regulations have stifled the flexible allocation of flights. Moreover, high landing and other costs put Narita and Haneda beyond the reach of low-cost carriers.
 ''Ibaraki is definitely on the right track,'' said Ushio Chujo, a professor of transportation economics at Keio University in Tokyo.
 ''The airport's success would hinge on whether more low-cost carriers will start up in Japan and in neighboring countries,'' he said. ''That could take 5 to 10 years, so Ibaraki will have to prepare for the long haul.''
 In 2007, long after blueprints for an impressive terminal building at Ibaraki Airport were drawn up, and contractors hired, Ibaraki Prefecture's governor, Masaru Hashimoto, called for building ''an airport Japan had never seen before.''
 ''Just another standard airport wasn't going to work. We'd be behind the times as soon as we opened,'' Mr. Hashimoto said in an interview. ''We needed to turn our thinking upside down.''
 Mr. Hashimoto ordered a redesign of the terminal from scratch. He scrapped a plan to place arrivals, departures and a viewing deck on separate floors, instead putting everything on one level.
 Mr. Hashimoto eliminated boarding bridges, which are expensive for carriers to use and for airports to maintain. Passengers instead will board from the tarmac. (''People will love it -- they can pose for photos in front of the plane,'' he said.)
 He also wants passengers to carry their own check-in luggage to the plane, in a setup similar to some regional American airports -- though he is still negotiating with officials on the point.
 Planes landing at Ibaraki will taxi and park in a way that does not require the help of a tractor to push them back onto the runway before taking off -- another reason passengers will board from the tarmac. That move, the first for an international airport in Japan, saves tractor use fees for airlines and slashes maintenance costs for Ibaraki.
 When officials protested that Japan's finicky passengers would complain about the rain, Mr. Hashimoto and his aides offered this plan: give out free umbrellas on rainy days. (The Japanese love freebies, he said.) The governor is also pushing to accept private jets, as well as a helicopter link with downtown Tokyo, and is renting out extra space for parties and conventions.
 Those efforts have paid off: Landing fees for a Boeing 737 on a scheduled flight at Ibaraki are about 89,000 yen ($982), two-thirds of Narita's 139,600 yen fee ($1,540) and less than half of the 189,600 yen ($2,092) at Haneda, according to the industry publication Orient Aviation.
 Other factors may work in Ibaraki's favor: Its finances are not as dire as many of Japan's other airports, in part because it was built as an extension of a military air base. And foreign carriers can serve regional airports without the bilateral agreements necessary for access to Haneda and Narita, making it easier to add routes. Asiana has had difficulty adding to the six routes it flies from Seoul to Narita and Haneda, for example.
 Ibaraki offers unlimited free parking, while parking costs at Narita and Haneda are sky-high, and also plans to offer bus service from central Tokyo for 500 yen, or less than $5 - a fraction of the cost it takes to travel to Narita, and comparable to the cost of reaching Haneda.
 Accounting for the time it takes for the plane to taxi on Narita's runway and the passenger to make his way through that sprawling airport, the total journey to central Tokyo from Ibaraki is about the same - less than 90 minutes - according to Katsuichi Yabunaka, an Ibaraki official.
 Meanwhile, the airport serves a big market in its own right: about 20 million people live within 100 kilometers of the new airport, according to Ibaraki Prefecture. The airport faces plenty of headwinds. Haneda and Narita are planning extensions. Japan's economy remains depressed. Foreign arrivals in Japan are also on the decline, though the trend could change with better access, particularly by budget carriers, experts say.
 The airport is expected to lose 20 million yen ($221,000) in its first year of operation.
 Still, Ibaraki is going on a sales offensive. The airport is in discussions with low-cost carriers in China, Malaysia, the Philippines and Macao. Asiana, meanwhile, is studying an additional route to the South Korean port city of Busan.
 ''Ibaraki is the first airport in Japan to break the mold by really focusing on cost and efficiency,'' said Dongshil Hyun, executive vice president at Asiana and head of the airline's Japan operations.
 ''We finally have a much-needed new route to Tokyo,'' he said. ''How could we not be excited?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: For now, Ibaraki Airport will offer just two flights a day: one to Seoul, South Korea, and one to Kobe, a port city in western Japan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KYODO NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAPS: Ibaraki's proximity to Tokyo may attract bargain airlines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIR FARES (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%)

COMPANY: ASIANA AIRLINES INC (56%)

TICKER: 020560 (KSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



260 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Panel Finds Problems In Bailouts For GMAC

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A Congressional panel, in a report to be released Thursday, questioned the need for the Treasury Department's $17.2 billion bailout of GMAC as the company dealt with the collapsing mortgage market in 2008 and 2009.
 The panel, the Congressional Oversight Panel for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, raised questions about the Bush administration's initial decision to rescue GMAC in December 2008. 
 The government ''might have been able'' to arrange a strategic bankruptcy for GMAC, as it did for General Motors and Chrysler, preserving its automotive lending arm while dealing with the mortgage lending operations that brought it down, the panel found.
 In one passage, the report concluded that GMAC became ''one of the five largest wards'' of the government even though it was ''a company that apparently posed no systemic risk to the financial system, that did not seem to be too big to fail, too interconnected to fail, or indeed, of any systemic significance.''
 But the five-member panel said it took ''no position on whether Treasury should have rescued GMAC.'' (One member, Damon A. Silvers of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., recused himself from investigations concerning the auto industry.)
 Asked Wednesday evening to explain the apparent inconsistency, the panel's chairwoman, Elizabeth Warren, a Harvard law professor, said only that ''this was a four-person panel'' and that the report's language represented a consensus. She declined to state her personal view on the bailout.
 The report said that the Treasury Department had yet to require the company to put forward a plan for returning to profitability and fully repaying taxpayers.
 In a statement Wednesday evening, the Treasury restated its previous arguments for the necessity of the rescue, saying it was ''the least costly and least disruptive of all the options available.''
 The government owns a 56.3 percent stake in GMAC, which started in 1919 as the in-house financing arm of G.M. and was spun off in 2006. It is now projected that $6.3 billion from the bailouts, which were provided in December 2008 and in May and December 2009, may never be repaid.
 Along with the Treasury money, GMAC also used emergency loan programs run by the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
 The panel found that the Treasury treated GMAC with greater lenience than it did G.M. and Chrysler: it did not wipe out GMAC's equity holders, require GMAC to plot a return to viability, or prod the company to use taxpayer money to increase consumer lending.
 And the panel found that while the rescue of GMAC helped support the American auto industry, it also reinforced GMAC's dominance over the revolving lines of credit used by auto dealers.
 The report details, among other developments, the company's collapse at the hands of a subsidiary called ResCap, which became one of the largest originators and servicers of mortgages.
 Witnesses who addressed the panel said GMAC's major mistake was taking advantage of and leveraging its high credit rating to move away from automotive financing and diversify into other areas such as mortgage lending, the report said.
 Indeed, in a conference call in January, Michael A. Carpenter, GMAC's chief executive, called the mortgage unit ''a millstone around the company's neck.''
 The Treasury has said that the initial bailout was needed to prop up the auto industry, and that the subsequent ones were deemed necessary after GMAC took part in the ''stress tests'' ordered by the Fed, even though it ''might appear that good money was being thrown after bad.''
 The panel found that ''half-hearted attempts at saving an institution from insolvency that lack coordination among regulators'' might be more costly than a full bailout or bankruptcy.
 The report also found that the commitment to GMAC arguably outlasted its the economic justification and that Treasury's reasons for not allowing GMAC to fail were not totally persuasive.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a Congressional panel that questioned the need for the Treasury Department's bailouts of GMAC in 2008 and 2009 gave an incomplete figure for the overall amount of the government's financial package. It totaled $17.2 billion. (The word ''billion'' was omitted.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); LITIGATION (71%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (70%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (92%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (62%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



261 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Electric Rate Linked to Solar Power

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Los Angeles averages more than 300 days of sunshine a year, and it often seems as if environmentalists outnumber rattlesnakes in many parts of the sprawling city. It would seem, then, that solar energy would be a thriving local industry here. 
 But that has never been the case, and experts cite cost as the main reason. 
 Now, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, the largest municipal utility in the United States, is poised to pass a roughly 5 percent rate increase on electricity use. The proceeds would be earmarked for renewable energy purchases and programs, including one that would repay people or businesses that use solar panels to contribute to the power grid.
 The commission that governs the utility, which is losing about $6 million a week or an estimated $500 million by the end of the 2011 fiscal year, is expected to vote next week to increase by seven-tenths of 1 cent the current user rate of 12 cents per kilowatt hour. Some proceeds from the increase -- which is subject to a City Council vote if the Council chooses to do so, which would not be unlikely -- would be used to shore up the budget shortfall, in the hope of protecting the utility's bond rating. 
 The rest would go to renewable energy sources, like wind farms, and to help subsidize a program that would essentially repay solar-panel users for feeding energy into the power grid. 
 City officials say the rate increase -- a variation on what some power companies and cities around the country have done to help pay for renewable energy investments -- is equivalent to a carbon tax because all consumers will see rates fall as the city becomes less reliant on coal-powered energy. 
 Tax increases are a political third rail right now in California, where unemployment remains high, wages flat and the economy still sluggish. But Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa and his staff are billing the increase as a move that will bring jobs to the city. Los Angeles has never embraced the idea of solar energy, largely because of the high cost of the programs. There are so few solar panel manufacturing companies in the city, mayoral aides have had to scramble to find an appropriate place to announce the new plan later this week. 
 ''A well-crafted carbon surcharge achieves two goals,'' Los Angeles's chief deputy mayor, Jay Carson, said. ''The first is a drastic reduction in fossil fuel usage for energy, but the second, and more important for Los Angeles, is the creation of thousands of green-collar jobs.''
 Under the proposed program, Los Angeles would take a big step toward Gov. Arnold Schwarzeneggar's larger goal of one million solar roofs in California by 2018, through state incentive programs. Between $150 million and $160 million per year of the new tax proceeds would be put aside to invest in coal-alternatives for energy use in the city, one of the few that operates under a municipal rather than an investor-owned utility.
 The money would also be used to help pay for what is known as a feed-in tariff, under which the utility will pay a set rate for electricity from customers who install solar panels. 
 European countries have had mixed results -- some wildly successful, some a horrific bust -- with feed-in tariffs. 
 The city would also offer more incentives to users who get solar panels from panel makers in Los Angeles -- a practice known as local preference -- which Mr. Carson said would give such companies incentive to open up shop here.
 The city would adopt an increasingly popular program in which homes undergo an energy audit and their owners borrow money from the government to make them more efficient. 
 ''This is essentially Ladwp coming out of the stone age,'' said Severin Borenstein, a co-director of the Energy Institute at the Haas School of Business at the University of California, referring to the power agency. 
 Professor Borenstein gave the proposed tax increase a mixed review. ''Some of the changes make sense,'' he said, citing long-term contracts for renewable energy that reduce the carbon in the city's energy mix. Mr. Carson said this would result in decreases in the overall electric bill consumers pay, thus the ''carbon tax'' moniker. 
 But ''feed-in tariffs for solar power is not good use of money,'' Professor Borenstein said. ''Solar power at the residential level is not close to economical. There are many things you should do before you subsidize it.''
 Californians have been squeezed by high unemployment and fee increases, and Los Angelenos may not cotton easily to a rate increase.
 ''Californians are environmentally conscious,'' said Dan Schnur, the director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of Southern California. ''But much less so if it causes them economic difficulty.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Daniel Nazarian, of American Solar Energy Solutions, with a new installation in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (94%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); WIND ENERGY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (74%); TAX INCREASES (71%); BONDS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); TAX LAW (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (65%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES DEPARTMENT OF WATER & POWER (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



262 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Still Elusive, 5 States Posted Record Unemployment Rates in January

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Unemployment rose in 30 states in January, the Labor Department said Wednesday, evidence that jobs remain scarce in most regions of the country. 
 The data is somewhat better than December, when 43 states reported higher unemployment rates, but worse than November, when rates fell in most states.
 Still, five states reported new highs for joblessness in January: California, at 12.5 percent; South Carolina, 12.6 percent; Florida, 11.9 percent; North Carolina, 11.1 percent; and Georgia, 10.4 percent.
 Michigan's unemployment rate is still the nation's highest, at 14.3 percent, followed by Nevada with 13 percent and Rhode Island at 12.7 percent. South Carolina and California round out the top five.
 But there were some signs of job creation. Thirty-one states added jobs in January, up from 11 the previous month. But the job gains were not enough, in many cases, to lower the unemployment rate.
 For example, California reported the largest job gains, of 32,500, though its unemployment rate also rose. Illinois, New York, Washington and Minnesota reported the next highest totals of new jobs.
 The lowest unemployment rates are still found in upper Plains states, with North Dakota's jobless rate of 4.2 percent the lowest in the nation. Nebraska, with 4.6 percent, and South Dakota, with 4.8 percent, had the next lowest rates.
 In January, the national unemployment rate fell to 9.7 percent from 10 percent the previous month. Last week, the Labor Department said the national rate was unchanged in February at 9.7 percent, a better reading than most analysts expected.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Department of Homeland Security representative at a January jobs fair in Lake Orion, Mich. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (97%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



263 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Exports Increase 46% as Demand From West Rebounds

BYLINE: By SHARON LAFRANIERE; Zhang Jing contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China announced Wednesday that its exports climbed 46 percent in February from a year earlier, a sign that economists said signaled a rebound in consumer demand from the United States and other Western markets. 
 It was the third consecutive month of increases in Chinese exports and the fastest growth in three years. Orders from the United States, the European Union and Japan accounted for almost half of the growth, after demand from emerging markets rose in the previous two months. 
 Chinese imports increased 45 percent over last year, led by crude oil, after factories stepped up production. 
 Some economists said the figures indicated China's recovery was well under way. Tao Wang, head of China research for UBS Securities, predicted that Chinese exports would rebound to the level of 2008, before China was hurt by the global financial crisis. 
 Ms. Wang and others suggested that the robust growth could increase pressure on China to let its currency, the renminbi, appreciate against the dollar. 
 Western governments contend that pegging the renminbi to the dollar keeps Chinese exports artificially cheap and depresses competing economies. The Chinese prime minister, Wen Jiabao, said last week that exchange rates would remain ''basically stable'' for now. 
 Chen Deming, China's commerce minister, said in late December that the outlook for international trade remained ''extremely complicated'' and predicted that it could take two or three years for Chinese exports to recover to precrisis levels. A spokesman for the ministry repeated that prediction late last month. 
 Some analysts saw a hint of a possible shift in policy in comments made Saturday by the central bank governor, Zhou Xiaochuan. He called the practice of pegging a ''special foreign exchange mechanism'' that would be abandoned ''sooner or later.'' 
 February figures are harder to interpret than those for other months because of China's Lunar New Year break, which occurs early every year but not on the same date. 
 Moreover, the comparison with the previous year could be somewhat misleading because February 2009 was particularly bleak for Chinese exports and imports. 
 Moody'sEconomy.com, an economic research organization, nonetheless said the data ''reflects the dramatic improvement in the trade sector'' over a year ago. Other economists said the figures suggested the outlook of the Chinese Commerce Ministry was too pessimistic. 
 The 46 percent increase in exports beat economists' predictions and the January increase of 21 percent. Exports of textiles, steel products, televisions and motorcycles also rose. 
 In China's industrial heartland, some factories are reporting labor shortages as they strive to fill orders. 
 The pace of growth in imports slowed from January, when China reported an 85 percent increase. Economists attributed that largely to rising prices. 
 China reported a $7.6 billion trade surplus for February. The trade surplus for January through February shrank by half compared with a year ago, according to Ms. Wang, of UBS. 
 She said the smaller surplus was probably temporary, because of the rising prices of commodities. She predicted a modest drop in the trade surplus for the year. 
 Separately, others figures from the National Bureau of Statistics also released Wednesday showed the economy was humming along. Investment in real estate rose 31.1 percent in the first two months of the year, compared with a year earlier, Reuters reported. 
 China also introduced strict new rules on Wednesday governing bankers' pay that were intended to limit risk taking, Reuters reported from Beijing. 
 Payment of 40 percent or more of an executive's salary must be delayed for a minimum of three years and could be withheld if the bank performs poorly, the China Banking Regulatory Commission said in a statement on its Web site. 
 Though other countries have examined ways to use regulation of bankers' pay as a way to control investment behavior, the implications in China are less significant because bankers are, in effect, employees of the government in the largely state-owned banking system, and their salaries are already lower than those of international peers. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a factory at Dongguan in Guangdong Province, where labor shortages have occurred, workers made bras for export. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE TAN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (52%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



264 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; ON LOCATION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Where Provenance Presides

BYLINE: By AUDREY TEMPELSMAN

 BODY:
IN the living room of the apartment in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, that Robert Highsmith, 27, shares with his girlfriend, Stefanie Brechbuehler, 32, and their standard schnauzer, Kingsley, is a weathered Eames lounge chair that once belonged to Mr. Highsmith's grandfather and still smells faintly of cigarette smoke. 
 A painting by his grandmother, an abstract composition in blue, yellow and gray, hangs on the bedroom wall. And down the hall in the dining room -- which doubles as an office for Workstead, the architecture and furniture firm that the two run -- is a chandelier Mr. Highsmith made out of old machinist lamps and metal joints. 
 Among friends, he and Ms. Brechbuehler are known as sophisticated pack rats who surround themselves with objects that have a story to tell. 
 ''When I bring something home that's new, or if I'm not sure where it came from, I find it loud, distracting,'' Mr. Highsmith said. 
 Ms. Brechbuehler, who is Swiss, added: ''In Switzerland, if you buy a pair of shoes, you'll have them for 10 years. They have a different attitude toward consuming, and I think Robert and his family do, too.''
 The couple, who met as architecture students at the Rhode Island School of Design, have been living here since October, about a month after they started Workstead. Mr. Highsmith was already doing freelance design work, but Ms. Brechbuehler had a job at Gensler, a large architecture firm, and when she quit to work with Mr. Highsmith, she said, friends were aghast. 
 ''I was told: 'You're crazy! So many people are losing their jobs, how could you do this at this time?' '' she said. ''But I think the more the recession drags on, the more people are feeling free to try different things.'' 
 Because they needed a space where they could live and work, they moved out of the 387-square-foot East Village studio where they had been living together for a year, and into this 850-square-foot floor-through one-bedroom apartment, which they rent for $2,000 a month, $150 more than they had been paying. 
 ''The studio was an exercise in collecting only what really matters,'' Mr. Highsmith said, but this apartment is also a carefully edited ''collection of things inherited, gathered and assembled.'' 
 The sofa and armchair in the living room, for example, belonged to his grandparents; the two pieces were recovered in a heather gray fabric for $700. The charcoal throw on the sofa was knitted by Ms. Brechbuehler's mother.
 The Jean Prouve Potence Lamp, which stretches over the seating arrangement, was a damaged floor model bought from Design Within Reach for $750, marked down from $1,560. 
 Burlap from a hardware store ($10) was turned into curtains for the living room and office; Ms. Brechbuehler sewed a wooden dowel at the bottom of each panel to anchor it. ''The sewing isn't perfect, but it doesn't matter,'' she said. 
 To get to the office, the bathroom or the kitchen, clients and friends have to pass through the bedroom, and ''it can feel awkward seeing someone else's bedding,'' she said. By draping a $350 cowhide from Ikea over the bed, they neutralized the space and made it look more like a sitting room with a daybed. The closet, a floor-to-ceiling structure of two-by-fours built by a previous tenant, is hidden by chocolate-colored burlap, which they bought at a local fabric store for about $70. The burlap has been suspended from cast-iron curtain rings and clips.
 The bed was designed by Asher Israelow, a former classmate, using walnut with a particularly prominent grain. ''When you work with wood, you're building with something that already has a story -- the shape and rings hold all this information,'' Ms. Brechbuehler said. 
 Another much-loved wood piece is a table that Mr. Highsmith made for her from metal sailboat stands and a weathered maple door. The four Eames Aluminum Management Chairs surrounding it were a major investment, bought at a vintage design store for $2,700.
 ''Since we live and work in the same space, we didn't want it to be too office-y,'' Ms. Brechbuehler said. But she added, ''At the same time, it has to function.'' 
 Like most rental apartments, the space has its drawbacks, including a ''puke-colored'' marble-ized Formica counter in the kitchen, Mr. Highsmith said. But on the whole, he noted, it is exactly what they hoped it would be, a ''neutral vessel to contain these things we love.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. The apartment is furnished with a mix of things Robert Highsmith and Stefanie Brechbuehler collected, inherited and made. Burlap ($10) was draped over plumbing hardware to make curtains. Ikea PS credenzas (about $100 each) flank the mantel
the mirror is from Mr. Highsmith's grandmother.
2. Ms. Brechbuehler and Mr. Highsmith use the dining room as an office for their architecture and furniture studio. Presentations are stored behind a homosote board from Lowe's ($20) decorated with postcards.
3. The bedroom closet is hidden by burlap curtains (made by a seamstress for $120
the fabric was about $70). Ms. Brechbuehler (holding Kingsley, their schnauzer) and Mr. Highsmith sit on molded plastic chairs bought on eBay for $25 each.
4. Prints in yard-sale frames hang over the collection of driftwood on top of the piano. The vintage wall lamp is by O. C. White Co., a maker of industrial lighting since the late 19th century.
5. Fresh flowers and a yellow pot by Jens Quistgaard distract the eye from the faux-marble counter in the kitchen. The Alessi pepper shaker by Peter Zumthor sits on an Ikea Bekvam kitchen cart (about $60).
6. The bed was made by Asher Israelow, a former classmate
the painting, done by Mr. Highsmith's grandmother, is lighted by a 1950s wall lamp from Dazor, an industrial lighting manufacturer.
7. The oil painting of a Brooklyn landscape was done by Nicholas Evans-Cato, a friend and former professor
the pottery on the mantel was made by Ben Owen, a North Carolina potter.
8. The sofa and Eames lounge chair belonged to Mr. Highsmith's grandparents. Folding stools bought for $35 each resemble those in the Museum of Modern Art collection. Mr. Highsmith made the floor lamp from industrial lamp parts
 the Jean Prouve lamp is from Design Within Reach. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEIGH DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (75%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); DISMISSALS (64%); LAYOFFS (64%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (55%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



265 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Chile's New President Will Enter a Changed Political Landscape

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Pascale Bonnefoy contributed reporting.

 BODY:
SANTIAGO, Chile -- Chile's powerful earthquake buried people and homes in a broad section of the coastal south, but it may also have given the country's new right-wing coalition government a chance to entomb the ghosts of the former dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet.
 The Feb. 27 quake struck during a pivotal transition, just as Sebastian Pinera, a billionaire businessman and former senator, prepared to assume the presidency as the first elected right-wing leader in Chile in 50 years. When he takes office on Thursday, he will be the first president from the right of any kind since General Pinochet stepped down in 1990, returning Chile to democracy after a bloody dictatorship. 
 Mr. Pinera, who campaigned on a platform of job creation and law and order, may now have a freer hand to crack down on delinquency and drug trafficking. He is already billing himself as the ''reconstruction president,'' embarking on an open-ended endeavor that could give him a lasting edge over the rival center-left Concertacion coalition, which was viewed as responding slowly in the immediate aftermath of the disaster. 
 Benjamin Leal, 38, a psychology professor, survived the tsunami that barreled through the port city of Talcahuano, leaving close to half of its 250,000 residents homeless. Then he endured the riotous aftermath, as looters and vandals stole what they could while the government of the departing president, Michelle Bachelet, hesitated for 36 hours to call in the military.
 ''We were just shown a shameful example that delinquency was not being attacked well by this previous government,'' Mr. Leal said. He stood nervously last week outside his apartment building, where truck-size shipping containers that had been blown onto the street by the tsunami were threatening to topple onto his building.
 ''Here there is extreme poverty, and sometimes it's a jungle, where the law of the strongest rules,'' he said. ''We expect Mr. Pinera to change that.''
 The political climate has changed since Mr. Pinera was elected in January. Then there were pressing questions about his vast business holdings and ties to former military and cabinet officials from the Pinochet era. 
 Now, Mr. Pinera appears to have a fresh opportunity to be seen as the tough, modernizing force that voters were clamoring for when they elected him over former President Eduardo Frei, the candidate for the Concertacion coalition, which had held power for two decades.
 Mr. Pinera's 22-member cabinet is composed almost exclusively of technocrats from the corporate right. Most are economists from the conservative Catholic University in Santiago who hold master's degrees and doctorates from prestigious American universities. Mr. Pinera himself has a doctorate in economics from Harvard.
 ''He has the business management experience that we need now,'' Claudio Torres, an oil refinery subcontractor, said last week in Talcahuano, while pushing a grocery cart up a hill after filling a cooking pot with potable water from a municipal truck.
 Marta Lagos, who runs a polling agency here, said that after decades during which the right was not in power, Mr. Pinera ''has the chance to modernize the country, to make it something better than it was before.''
 ''If the right is smart and does at least a decent job, it will be around for a while,'' she said.
 For the first time since the Pinochet government, the military was patrolling Chilean streets last week, swiftly restoring order and winning praise from residents for its benevolence and professionalism. Mr. Pinera has said he would like to see the army stay in the earthquake zone beyond the 30-day limit imposed by law.
 Despite the military's best efforts to avoid clashes, news broke late Wednesday of a possible deadly episode. Five members of a navy infantry patrol were detained by the navy on suspicion of participation in the death of a civilian in Hualpen early Wednesday morning, during the military curfew, Rear Adm. Roberto Macchiavello told Radio Cooperativa. 
 Most Chileans under 35 years old are too young to remember the brutally repressive role the military played under General Pinochet. Many soldiers on the streets of Concepcion last week were toddlers when the dictatorship was coming to an end.
 But its conduct during the quake's aftermath underscored that the military is no longer a political actor in Chile. Generals no longer make political statements, offer opinions on public issues or try to intervene in public affairs as they did in the past.
 ''What is important right now is that the army is on the side of our compatriots,'' Gen. Juan Miguel Fuente-Alba said Tuesday during a ceremony in which he took over as commander in chief of the army.
 The quake has been less beneficial to the left, at least for now. Ms. Bachelet originally surged onto the national political scene in 2002 after a famous incident when, as the minister of defense, she jumped atop a tank in the rain during an operation to help flood victims. But after last month's quake Ms. Bachelet, who herself was imprisoned and tortured during the military dictatorship, hesitated to send in troops to keep peace on the streets. 
 ''Her term began with criticism that she didn't know how to lead and ended with that same criticism,'' Ms. Lagos said. ''At the end she showed weakness. For her the earthquake will be like Chappaquiddick was for Ted Kennedy.''
 Mr. Pinera was one of the founders of the right-wing parties created in the latter half of the 1980s that supported the military government but also played an intermediary role between the dictatorship and the opposition -- later to become the Concertacion -- in negotiating the terms of the transition to democracy.
 One of those terms was that the new civilian government would not abolish the 1978 amnesty law for military officers that covered human rights abuses from 1973 to 1978.
 Right-wing political leaders and the corporate right -- of which Mr. Pinera was a part -- were proteges of the Pinochet government and benefited generously from its economic model and the privatization of state industries.
 While campaigning in November, Mr. Pinera met with about 500 retired military and police officers, at their request. He said he would make sure human rights trials were accelerated and laws would be ''correctly applied'' -- a clear reference to the amnesty law and the statute of limitations on investigations, both of which judges have failed to apply over the past decade.
 Some analysts said Mr. Pinera's honeymoon could be short-lived if he appeared to favor private business interests in the reconstruction effort, estimated to cost at least $12 billion. His choices for governors in Santiago and Maule, in the quake zone, were chief executives of engineering and construction companies.
 His refusal to leave the management of his business affairs to others had already drawn comparisons to the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi. Since the earthquake, Mr. Pinera, the fourth-richest man in Chile, has said he will delay his promised divestment of his remaining 11 percent stake in Lan Airlines until April 30 because of the ''serious consequences of the earthquake and tsunami,'' according to a press release from Bancard, one of his investment groups. 
 ''All of this has put the issue of Pinera's business interests and possible conflict of interest on the back burner, but not for long,'' said Robert Funk, academic vice director at the Institute of Public Affairs of the University of Chile.
 ''If reconstruction efforts start leaning toward the private sector, many people will start to question what ties members of government have with companies involved in reconstruction projects,'' he said. ''People will be on alert.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chile's incoming president, Sebastian Pinera, center, with President Michelle Bachelet, at a military change-in-command ceremony Tuesday in Santiago.
 Mr. Pinera campaigned for Chile's presidency on a platform that stressed job creation and law and order. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOMAS MUNITA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); TSUNAMIS (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); JOB CREATION (54%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (53%)

PERSON: MICHELLE BACHELET (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (94%) CHILE (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



266 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Militant Views Were Expressed Online but Unknown to Neighbors

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA; Theo Emery contributed reporting from Washington. Kitty Bennett contributed research from St. Petersburg, Fla.

 BODY:
The Pennsylvania woman linked this week to an alleged terrorist plot involving militant Muslims was not known in her neighborhood for extreme religious views. There were no religious books or hangings in her apartment, several neighbors said, and she never spoke about her religion.
 But to the people monitoring her life online, the woman, Colleen R. LaRose, was a terrorist sympathizer known by her Internet name JihadJane who had expressed a desire to become a martyr for an Islamist cause. According to a federal indictment unsealed Tuesday, Ms. LaRose, 46, was intent on reaping revenge against a Swedish artist who depicted the prophet Muhammad atop the body of a dog. 
 Ms. LaRose, who is white and has blond hair and green eyes, boasted that she could go anywhere undetected. In August, she traveled to Sweden carrying the American passport of her companion, Kurt Gorman, which the authorities say she stole and planned to give to one of her co-conspirators in a plot to kill the artist.
 All of this came as a shock to Sheldon G. Barnum, Ms. LaRose's ex-husband.
 ''This is not what I knew her to be,'' said Mr. Barnum, who was married to Ms. LaRose in the 1980s. ''I don't know what she got into later in life.'' 
 ''She was just like anyone else,'' he said in a brief interview, describing Ms. LaRose as upbeat and easygoing. ''She had a brother, a sister, a family. There wasn't anything really different about her.''
 Mr. Gorman, who lived with Ms. LaRose for the last five years in a quiet residential neighborhood of Pennsburg, Pa., was equally baffled. 
 Mr. Gorman told The Philadelphia Daily News that she disappeared in August and left no note to indicate where she was going or why she left. ''I came home, and she's gone.'' Mr. Gorman said. ''I was upset, worried,'' he added. ''Maybe something happened to her. You don't know.''
 On Wednesday, Mr. Gorman told reporters that Ms. LaRose did not attend mosque while they lived together. He said he met her when he worked for a company that her father owned.
 Neighbors in Pennsburg, 50 miles northwest of Philadelphia, said Ms. LaRose made no secret about having converted to Islam. She did not, however, show signs of her faith, said Kristy Newell, who lived across the hall.
 But Ms. LaRose's militant leanings were not a surprise to everyone. A collection of anti-jihadi Internet activists have been following her postings at least since September 2008. 
 One forum where activists tracked her was My Pet Jawa, where volunteers research Web sites they believe are tied to Al Qaeda or other militant groups and pressure Internet service providers to stop hosting the sites. The founder of the site, who requested anonymity because he said he had received death threats over his work, said Ms. LaRose was unlike most of the militants he tracks.
 She made little effort to hide her true identity, he said, and she seemed to be using the radical sites almost as a dating service. ''It was like she was looking for a soul mate,'' he said. 
 On one Web site, Ms. LaRose corresponded with a man between December 2007 and February 2008 about her loyalty to jihad and her desires to marry him as soon as she could travel to see him. On another, Ms. LaRose sought advice in December 2007 about how to bring an Egyptian boyfriend, with whom she had been corresponding for more than a year, to the United States for the holidays.
 Another Web group, YouTube Smackdown Corps, said it had also been tracking Ms. LaRose and complaining to the authorities about her YouTube postings for two years. 
 Of the 27 or so YouTube videos Ms. LaRose posted, most were training videos or violent scenes that she had lifted from jihadi Web sites. On Wednesday, all of Ms. LaRose's videos had been removed by YouTube.
 Ms. LaRose was arrested Oct. 15 in Philadelphia and charged with conspiracy to provide material support to terrorists, conspiracy to kill in a foreign country, making false statements to a government official and attempted identity theft. She is now in custody.
 Prosecutors said she used the Internet to recruit men and women to wage violent jihad in South Asia and Europe.
 Ms. LaRose had been arrested before, on minor charges. In 1985, while living near Abilene, Tex., she was charged with criminal trespass and convicted, according to public records. In 1997, she was charged with writing bad checks in San Angelo, Tex., but she apparently failed to appear at an arraignment. There is an outstanding warrant for her there.
 Some time before 1988, she divorced Mr. Barnum and married Rodolfo Cavazos in Tarrant, Tex. 
 Police records indicate that Ms. LaRose tried to commit suicide in 2005. She was apparently despondent after the death of her father, the police report said.
 On Wednesday, the authorities would not say when or why Ms. LaRose moved to the Philadelphia area. But her neighbors in Pennsburg said she moved into the second-floor apartment of a two-story duplex on the 400 block of Main Street in 2004. 
 ''She just kind of kept to herself,'' said Ms. Newell, 38.
 Ms. Newell said she occasionally heard Ms. LaRose, who was unemployed, speaking loudly to her two Persian cats through the wall their apartments shared. 
 Ms. LaRose liked to drink and once in a while she could be seen staggering, drunk, up and down the street before her companion came to get her, Ms. Newell said.
 ''You wonder who you're bumping into now in the street,'' added another neighbor, Kim Bergan, 51. ''You think you know people who live in a type of an area, and then something like this happens.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An undated image from a Web site that the authorities say was maintained by Colleen R. LaRose, who was arrested Oct. 15. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOX NEWS, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE-GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); TERRORISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); INDICTMENTS (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (71%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%)

PERSON: COLLEEN LAROSE (JIHAD JANE) (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (58%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); SWEDEN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



267 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Governor Proposes Rise In Income Tax For Illinois

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Gov. Patrick J. Quinn on Wednesday proposed raising the state income tax rate, just one in a long list of painful measures aimed at closing a budget deficit that some now estimate at $13 billion. 
 ''This is urgent,'' Mr. Quinn, a Democrat, told lawmakers in Springfield, as he laid out an austere budget proposal for next year that includes spending cuts, leaving some bills unpaid and borrowing more money.
 ''We don't have six months. We don't have six weeks.'' 
 But Mr. Quinn's proposal to raise the state's personal income tax to 4 percent from 3 percent -- a move he portrayed as a ''surcharge for education'' -- comes at a particularly risky political moment, one that numerous governors find themselves facing in a fiscally grim year: he is seeking election in November. And tax increases rarely make for popular campaign material.
 Nationwide, experts say, states closed $117 billion in budget gaps in the last fiscal year, and have resolved -- or are working to resolve -- $174 billion more in gaps this fiscal year. 
 And if there are hints of economic improvement on other fronts, there are signs of the opposite in the states, which traditionally continue to struggle even after recovery is seen in other segments of the economy, and which are anticipating an end to federal stimulus dollars. 
 ''A lot of the easy decisions were already made,'' said Todd Haggerty, an analyst with the National Conference of State Legislatures. 
 ''The more painful ones are all that's left.'' All of which has left governors in the unhappy position of deciding whether to even broach increases in taxes, fees and other charges in an election year.
 Mr. Quinn described his wishes to lawmakers at midday, and within the hour found himself facing skepticism. 
 He presented the notion of an increase as an unadorned choice: that or devastating cuts to the state's education system. Some lawmakers from his own party, which controls both chambers of the legislature, seemed positive but noncommittal at the prospect of a tax increase. 
 The Republican Party, which has expressed high hopes of retaking the governor's mansion and a United States Senate seat from Illinois this year, issued a scathing assessment. 
 ''Governor Quinn laid out one of the most irresponsible budgets the people of Illinois have ever seen, perpetuating the status quo of massive borrowing and spending that got us into the fiscal crisis we face today,'' Pat Brady, the state party chairman, said, later adding, ''Raising taxes 33 percent on Illinois families is not the answer to fixing this budget mess.''
 Bill Brady, a state senator and the Republican nominee for governor (who is not related to the party chairman), has called for no tax increase, and advocates spending cuts to close the budget deficit.
 The income tax rate increase Mr. Quinn proposed on Wednesday was actually less than one that he proposed a year ago, which was ultimately ignored by state lawmakers. 
 Some had wondered whether he would even suggest the idea again, given the months of campaigning ahead, but Mr. Quinn seemed to suggest that he had weighed the politics carefully.
 ''That 1 percent will be enough to restore our education budget to current levels,'' he said, '' and allow us to get caught up on some of the millions of dollars we owe to our public schools, to our community colleges, to our four-year universities. I believe this 1 percent for education makes sense, and I think the people of Illinois will understand.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (68%)

PERSON: PAT QUINN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



268 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 345 words

HEADLINE: Caution: No Stops for Miles ... and Miles

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''In a Step Too Far for Drivers, Arizona Shuts Road Rest Stops'' (front page, March 5): 
 Perhaps aging baby boomers who have retired to Arizona could revive the spirit of their youth and organize a wave of protests against the closing of the majority of the state's highway rest stops. 
 A series of well-publicized protests at the shuttered stops might persuade state lawmakers of the error of this decision. My suggested rallying cry for the protesters: ''Hell, no, we will go!''
 Susan Fouts Herndon, Va., March 5, 2010 To the Editor: At last, a state agency with the courage to adopt right-wing principles. We need less government, not more government. Why should taxpayers be subsidizing those rest stops? Private enterprise should step in, build toilets that are accessible from the highway and charge an appropriate fee. Competition in a free market will ensure that patrons do not overpay. Graham King New York, March 5, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Our older two-lane highways that we used for intercity travel before the Interstates still have ''rest areas'' that don't get closed because they don't cost the taxpayer a dime. They're called ''towns.'' 
 Unlike the Interstates, these highways have abundant roadside places for travelers to stop -- gas stations, restaurants, stores -- that don't cost money; they make money.
 And if we used these great but now largely empty highways more instead of the Interstates, we'd help strengthen some depressed rural economies.
 John L. Gann Jr.
 Glen Ellyn, Ill., March 5, 2010
 The writer is a regional planner and the author of the manual ''Marketing UNterstate Highways: Bringing Out-of-Town Dollars to Non-Destination Small Towns.''
 To the Editor:
 The Tea Party folks and their fellow travelers on the right want no tax increases and little government. They are happy to gut public education and government assistance for the poor, but now many of them complain about the closing of rest stops.
 My suggestion to them is that they drink less tea.
 Larry J. Gerstein Santa Barbara, Calif., March 5, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SHANNON HOVICK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (74%); GAS STATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); RESTAURANTS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



269 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; FILM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1682 words

HEADLINE: How Gallic Can a Film Festival Get Year After Year? Plenty, It Seems

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
Not until he is kidnapped while on his way to work, held for ransom with a 50 million euro asking price and a severed finger is delivered to his family, do the sins of the spoiled corporate honcho in the French abduction thriller ''Rapt'' come to light. Inspired by a real-life 1978 kidnapping and updated to the present, ''Rapt'' is the most compelling film in this year's Rendez-Vous With French Cinema series.
 Roughly 20 features will be shown in Rendez-Vous, presented by the Film Society of Lincoln Center and Unifrance and now in its 15th year. Following a grand opening on Thursday at Alice Tully Hall with Christian Carion's fact-based espionage drama ''Farewell,'' set in the twilight of the cold war, Rendez-Vous will have screenings at the Walter Reade Theater, the IFC Center and the Brooklyn Academy of Music through March 21. Overall it is as consistent as Rendez-Vous usually is. It may lack a certifiable masterpiece, but it offers a fair number of B-plus or better adult features, and no real duds. 
 In Lucas Belvaux's ''Rapt,'' as revelations about the kidnapping victim's profligate gambling and womanizing are spread across the French tabloids, the film coldly assesses his diminishing value as both a corporate totem and a family man. Whether or not he survives, his life is in ruins. (The movie is based on the abduction of the French-Belgian industrialist Baron Edouard-Jean Empain.) 
 Arriving at a moment when the recession and scandals involving the wealthy and powerful in business and politics have cast a moral pall over the upper class, ''Rapt,'' starring Yvan Attal, plays shrewdly into the growing public disgust with entitled elites. The story culminates with two grotesque twists of karmic justice that end the film on a sour note that feels just right for these cynical, paranoid times. 
 ''Rapt'' is one of three selections in this year's Rendez-Vous series to receive Cesar nominations (the French Oscars) for best picture. The other two, ''In the Beginning'' and ''Welcome,'' address unemployment and immigration. The three movies are conceptually of a piece with Jacques Audiard's acclaimed prison drama, ''A Prophet'' (not in Rendez-Vous), which swept the Cesars and is now playing in American theaters. Think of them as the French film industry's tough response to tougher times. 
 In a Gallic cinema renowned for its appreciation of women, this year it is the men's turn in the spotlight. The two brightest stars of this edition of Rendez-Vous, Mr. Attal and Vincent Lindon, each of whom appears in two films, have separate evenings celebrating their careers: Mr. Attal at the French Institute Alliance Francaise (Saturday) and Mr. Lindon at the Walter Reade (Sunday). 
 Mr. Attal, wiry and glowering in ''Rapt,'' is almost unrecognizable in Cedric Kahn's domestic melodrama ''Regrets,'' in which his character, a married Parisian architect, returns to his hometown to visit his dying mother and impulsively revives a relationship with a former girlfriend, now married, whom he had dumped years earlier. 
 As their affair intensifies, his passion escalates into a desperate obsession to which she responds with a push-me-pull-you ambivalence. Adultery and its discontents is a favorite theme in French movies, and this squirm-inducing study of two people repeating childish emotional games from the past is one of the better variations.
 Mr. Lindon, the stony-faced, middle-aged actor whose masculine gravity evokes memories of Jean Gabin, lends weight to Philippe Lioret's ''Welcome'' and Stephane Brize's ''Mlle. Chambon.'' In ''Welcome'' he plays a swimming teacher at a public pool in Calais who impulsively becomes a mentor to a 17-year-old illegal Kurdish immigrant (Firat Ayverdi, a Cesar nominee for most promising actor) who wants to swim the English Channel to prevent the arranged marriage of his sweetheart. ''Welcome'' portrays France's official attitude toward illegal immigrants as every bit as hostile as America's; by helping the boy the teacher risks going to prison. 
 In ''Mlle. Chambon'' Mr. Lindon's character is a happily married mason who fights his attraction to his son's refined, violin-playing teacher (a fluttery Sandrine Kiberlain) whom he meets when he fixes a window in her home. This mild-mannered class study suggests a discreetly buttoned up ''Lady Chatterley's Lover.''
 Xavier Giannoli's ''In the Beginning,'' the series's third Cesar-nominated film, is based on a true story that happened several years ago. Francois Cluzet (from ''Tell No One'') plays a petty con man who poses as an executive from a nonexistent subdivision of a major construction company and hires a team of road workers to build a stretch of highway in an area of northern France where the unemployment rate is 25 percent. 
 His scheme, to pocket advance kickbacks from local subcontractors and flee, is revised when he becomes emotionally invested in the community that embraces him as a savior. He also becomes involved with the town's female mayor (Emmanuelle Devos). Against your better judgment you root for the project to be completed before the financial roof caves in. 
 Unemployment is also examined in Xabi Molia's morose, meandering ''8 Times Up,'' which observes a man and woman evicted from the same apartment building who find themselves scuffling for humiliating odd jobs and reduced to camping out in the woods. 
 On a grander scale are two historical films whose epic ambitions are only partly realized. ''Farewell'' stars two major European directors -- Emir Kusturica (''When Father Was Away on Business,''''Underground'') and Guillaume Canet (''Tell No One'') -- as a traitorous Soviet K.G.B. agent and his skittish French contact. The agent, disillusioned with the direction of Soviet Communism, passes voluminous information about the Soviet spy network to the reluctant Frenchman, who relays it to Francois Mitterrand, who then alerts Ronald Reagan (both played by look-alikes). This huge but little publicized breach of Soviet security helped accelerate the fall of Communism. It's a fantastic true story told with a galumphing momentum. 
 Robert Guediguian's ''Army of Crime'' observes the doomed terrorist campaign against German occupiers mounted by a daredevil French Resistance cell largely made up of Communist immigrants and led by an Armenian poet. As it follows the destinies of nearly 20 characters -- too many to keep track of -- the narrative drive of this sprawling mosaic stalls. 
 Apart from sentimental oddities like Mona Achache's ''Hedgehog,'' which observes the friendship of a precociously intelligent but morbid little girl and the homely but secretly cultured female concierge of her apartment building (the movie suggests a sort of Gallic ''Harold and Maude''), the series has a full quota of turbulent, involuted, multi-generational family dramas. 
 The paterfamilias of Axelle Ropert's ''Wolberg Family'' is a controlling provincial small-town mayor who loves his family so much that he has difficulty allowing his children their independence. In Christophe Honore's ''Making Plans for Lena'' Chiara Mastroianni plays a divorced, emotionally unstable mother of two children who clashes repeatedly with her family during a summer holiday in Brittany. The continual tumult in both films echoes the emotional strife in Arnaud Desplechin's superior 2008 film ''A Christmas Tale.''
 Similar American films, facetiously known as ''dysfunctional family dramas'' (''Everybody's Fine'' is a recent example), usually tie up their conflicts with pretty ribbons and bows. Their messier but more truthful French equivalents let the chips fall where they may. 
 In Laurent Perreau's ''Restless,'' the great octogenarian actor Michel Piccoli plays an ailing former Resistance fighter caring for his rebellious, tomboyish granddaughter whom he doesn't begin to understand. Michel Gondry's ''Thorn in the Heart'' is a documentary portrait of the director's indefatigably spirited aunt, Suzette Gondry, a rural schoolteacher, that forsakes the elevated mind games of his fictional features like ''Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind.''
 Parenthood and adoption are the themes of Francois Ozon's ''Refuge'' a sleek minor work featuring pretty male eye candy, and the more searching ''I'm Glad That My Mother Is Alive,'' directed by the father and son team of Claude and Nathan Miller. Mr. Ozon seems to be on a baby bender, his previous film, ''Ricky,'' having contemplated the joys and responsibilities of infant caretaking. The Millers' film follows the quest of a troubled young man to track down his equally troubled birth mother. 
 Finally there is comedy, which may be most problematic movie genre to cross over from one culture to another with its sense of humor intact. Of the three comedies in this year's Rendez-Vous, Riad Sattouf's ''French Kissers,'' the Cesar winner for best first film, is the most American. Ungainly adolescents with bad skin and posture are rarely seen in French movies, but ''The French Kissers'' breaks that taboo with its procession of geeky, slobbering 14-year-olds stumbling through their first amorous forays like the teenagers in ''Superbad.'' Even so, the movie lacks the gleefully mischievous gross-out imagination of its American cousins. 
 Michel Hazanavicius's satire ''OSS 117 -- Lost in Rio'' is a clever, low-rent James Bond spoof that programmatically bares the anti-Semitism, racism and male chauvinism of its smug, suave hero; once the joke is grasped, it quickly wears thin.
 In Alain Guiraudie's erotic farce ''The King of Escape,'' a 16-year-old girl falls in love with the obese, gay, middle-aged tractor salesman who rescues her from bullies, and they run away together with her father and the police in hot pursuit. This sexual free-for-all portrays rural France as a teeming hotbed of randy old gay men copulating in the woods. ''The King of Escape,'' for which American audiences may not be ready, belongs in its own generic niche.
 Rendez-Vous With French Cinema runs through March 21 at various locations in Manhattan and Brooklyn; filmlinc.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Some of the offerings in this year's Rendez-Vous With French Cinema festival. Above right, Yvan Attal and Anne Consigny in ''Rapt.'' Left, from top, Guillaume Canet, left, and Emir Kusturica in ''Farewell''
Vincent Lacoste and Alice Tremoliere in ''The French Kissers''
Pauline Etienne and Michel Piccoli in ''Restless.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNIFRANCE/FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER
JEAN-CLAUDE LOTHER/FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER
LEILA GARFIELD/LES FILMS DES TOURNELLES
 UNIFRANCE/FILM SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIE REVIEWS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (75%); COLD WAR (74%); FESTIVALS (72%); SCANDALS (70%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); THEATER (56%); ESPIONAGE (54%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



270 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 233 words

HEADLINE: Senate Passes Bill That Would Extend Unemployment Benefits

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Bloomberg News) -- The Senate on Wednesday approved a $138 billion measure that would extend unemployment benefits and provide additional aid to states in lawmakers' second major effort this year to help the economy. 
 The vote was 62 to 36. Six Republicans joined Democrats in voting for the bill; the only Democrat to oppose it was Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska.
 The legislation, which now goes to the House, would also extend dozens of expiring tax cuts and head off cuts in Medicare reimbursements to doctors.
 President Obama said in a statement, ''I am grateful to senators in both parties who took one more step forward today in getting our nation back on a solid economic footing.''
 Last week the House passed an $18 billion plan offering companies a tax break for hiring people who have been unemployed for at least 60 days. That measure is awaiting final approval in the Senate.
 The bill approved Wednesday would extend until Dec. 31 expiring provisions in the law that offer as many as 99 weeks of unemployment checks, along with a 65 percent subsidy to help buy health insurance through the Cobra program.
 The bill would send $25 billion to states struggling with tax revenue to help prevent layoffs of teachers, police officers and other public service employees. It would spend $6 billion to prevent for seven months a 21 percent scheduled cut in Medicare reimbursements.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); APPROVALS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); MEDICARE (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); LAYOFFS (73%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); BEN NELSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



271 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Albany Sides With Owner In a Rent Suit In Tribeca

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
Several months after the highest court in New York ruled that Stuyvesant Town's owners were wrong to deregulate apartments while receiving tax breaks, the state's housing agency has determined that another landlord who once received the breaks had the right to charge market-rate rents. 
 Although the new case, which involves Independence Plaza North, a TriBeCa complex with 1,300 apartments, has similarities to the Stuyvesant Town case, there were some differences.
 Last fall, the high court, the Court of Appeals, found that the owners of Stuyvesant Town and its sister complex along the East River, Peter Cooper Village, had wrongly charged market rates on apartments while receiving tax abatements for renovations under New York City's program known as J-51. The ruling could affect thousands of apartments citywide.
 Independence Plaza was once part of the state's Mitchell-Lama program, which kept rents low in exchange for low-interest mortgages and tax breaks. After buying Independence Plaza, the new owner, Laurence Gluck of Stellar Management, exercised his right to leave the Mitchell-Lama program in June 2004. In a deal with tenants and the city, Mr. Gluck agreed to limit rent increases for several years, though eventually they would rise faster than stabilized rents would, and one-bedrooms are already renting for up to $3,800 a month.
 But the complex, which had been receiving J-51 tax breaks, continued to receive them for about two years after Mr. Gluck left the Mitchell-Lama program. After he learned of the trouble this might cause, the city allowed him to repay the two years' worth of tax breaks -- $17,879.42 -- and retroactively ruled that he had stopped receiving the breaks in 2004.
 Tenants sued, and the judge, Marcy S. Friedman of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, asked the state's housing agency, the Division of Housing and Community Renewal, to weigh in.
 In a decision issued on March 5, the state agency said that because the J-51 program was administered by the city, the agency had no oversight over the program and would defer to the city's ruling that the J-51 benefits had ended in 2004.
 ''I am gratified that the D.H.C.R. made the correct decision, ruling that Independence Plaza is not rent stabilized,'' said Stephen B. Meister, a lawyer for Mr. Gluck, noting that tenants still had some rent protection because of the 2004 agreement.
 Justice Friedman can accept or reject the state's decision. 
 The tenants' lawyer, Seth Miller, criticized the decision. ''They're saying, 'We can't apply the rules that govern the effect of terminating J-51 benefits because J-51 benefits are terminated,' '' he said. ''And if that sounds absurd, it's because it is absurd.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); APPEALS COURTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



272 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Navistar Shares Fall After Earnings Report

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Shares of Navistar International, a maker of commercial and military vehicles, declined Wednesday in New York after its quarterly results missed analysts' estimates. 
 Net income fell 93 percent, to $17 million, or 23 cents a share, from $234 million, or $3.27 a share, a year earlier, the company said. The results, disclosed after the close of market trading on Tuesday, were lower than the 85-cent average estimate of 12 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
 Stock in Navistar, which is based in Warrenville, Ill., fell $2.34, or 5.3 percent, to $41.91 a share. 
 The company was battered by falling demand for commercial trucks in the United States as the recession deepened. Revenue in the period, which ended Jan. 31 and was the first quarter of Navistar's fiscal year, slid 5.4 percent, to $2.81 billion, from $2.97 billion. Navistar said it would earn $127 million to $163 million in the 2010 fiscal year, which ends Oct. 31.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%)

COMPANY: NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (74%)

TICKER: NAV (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (74%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



273 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Market Rises on Sense That Worst Is Behind Big Financials

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
A renewed sense that Wall Street's biggest financial companies had endured the worst of the economic downturn helped lead the stock market higher on Wednesday.
 Investors snapped up financial shares amid speculation that bailed-out companies were on track to report substantially improved balance sheets. With the recovery still tepid, traders welcomed any sign that the hardest-hit companies were moving to rid themselves of government support.
 The American International Group, the troubled insurer, surged 10.6 percent to close at $36.24 as investors bet that it would put more assets on the market after recently agreeing to sell two of its major insurance units. 
 Citigroup rose 3.7 percent, to $3.96, as it moved to repay its bailout funds by selling trust preferred securities, which appear on accounting statements as equity, not debt. It was the second day of stunning gains for each company.
 ''The bottom line is they are paying back their bailout money, and the economy has turned around,'' said Jeffrey A. Hirsch, editor of The Stock Trader's Almanac. ''They were extremely oversold, priced at bankruptcy levels, and that didn't happen.''
 Other companies in the banking sector also benefited. Wells Fargo shares gained more than 2 percent, Bank of America rose 1.85 percent, and JPMorgan Chase climbed 1.2 percent.
 Traders have been reluctant to make risky moves recently in the absence of economic data. On Thursday and Friday, they will get a clearer picture of the strength of the recovery when figures on the trade deficit, consumer sentiment and retail sales are released.
 Stocks meandered for much of Wednesday, leaving the major indexes with slim gains. A decline in commodities took a toll on materials stocks, tempering some of the momentum. Copper fell 1 percent, and gold declined nearly 1.5 percent.
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 0.03 percent, or 2.95 points, to 10,567.33. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.45 percent, or 5.16 points, to 1,145.61. The Nasdaq composite index climbed 0.78 percent, or 18.27 points, to 2,358.95, helped by a 2.9 percent increase in shares of Google as the company indicated it was closer to resolving a dispute with the Chinese government.
 A round of corporate deals provided another sign that businesses were gaining confidence. Late Tuesday, the drug and medical products maker Abbott Laboratoriessaid it would buy Facet Biotech for $450 million. On Wednesday, shares of Facet Biotech surged 67 percent.
 As investors tried to assess the recovery's strength, a snapshot of business confidence released Wednesday offered little clarity: wholesale inventories thinned unexpectedly in January, indicating rising demand from consumers, but businesses remained reluctant to build stockpiles.
 Inventories declined 0.2 percent, the Commerce Department said. Wall Street analysts had predicted an increase of that amount. 
 Stocks were also helped by a sign that the global recovery was taking hold. The Chinese government said exports climbed 46 percent in February, compared with a year earlier, largely because of a rebound in demand from the United States and other Western countries.
 In Europe, financial markets also closed higher. The FTSE 100 in London rose 0.7 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt and CAC-40 in Paris increased 0.9 percent.
 The pound continued to weaken, slipping to $1.4973, from $1.4987, because of brewing deficit problems and reports that factory production in Britain had slowed.
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 5/32, to 99 7/32. The yield rose to 3.72 percent, from 3.70 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INSURANCE (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PREFERRED STOCK (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (64%); RETAIL SALES (64%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



274 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Lots of Memories, Lots of Debris

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sandor@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The three excavators lined up Wednesday on the field of ruin that was once Yankee Stadium.
 They idled in left field, side by side, their buckets down, prepared to pull down a section of the upper deck.
 The grass field is gone, replaced by shards and chunks of concrete and steel. 
 The field and loge decks were munched up and torn apart by hydraulic hammers and shears. 
 The bleachers are as dead as Neidermeyer. Scoreboards, too.
 So much has been destroyed that it's hard to feel even a tingle of fuzzy nostalgia for the house that Ruth built and the city is razing. You have your memories, but nothing that matters is left in these remains. 
 Maybe a Jimmie Foxx jersey will be found buried beneath all the rubble.
 Sure, there used to be a ballpark right here. But there is no trace of DiMaggio here. Just debris by the ton.
 Old Yankee Stadium: opened in 1923, reopened in 1976. 
 New Yankee Stadium can be seen through what's been torn out of the old. 
 On Wednesday, the electronic sign atop its roof read: ''Twenty Five Days Until Opening Day.'' Hope.
 The city says it is spending about $25 million to demolish the stadium and expects to finish in June and start building a community park with three ball fields. Trees will be planted along the footprint of the old stadium. 
 City officials giving a press tour of the demolition said they had no intention of saving Gate 2, as preservation-minded advocates want, because keeping it would interfere with the location of the fields.
 Gate 2 is behind the portion of the stadium where the excavators were preparing to tear down the section of the day. The upper deck once consisted of 25 distinct sections, said Dmitri Konon, a senior vice president for the city's Economic Development Corporation, the project's overseer. Through Tuesday, five had been wrecked.
 The destruction of each one starts with destabilizing the steel beams that gave it strength, Konon said. 
 Hammers chop the beams, and torches burn through them. 
 On the Manhattan-bound 4 train subway platform, about 25 people gathered, most of them with cameras. It's the best place to watch Yankee Stadium die, even through the metal fence. A man getting off the train looked at the hole where the stadium once was, paused and said, ''Damn!'' But the day's matinee had not begun.
 In the city, you can't wreck a stadium by setting off dynamite. It's the sort of amazing spectacle that has leveled many extinct stadiums and is to occur next month in Irving, Tex., when Texas Stadium will be imploded. 
 The Dallas Cowboys will be safe; they already live in Jerry Jones's Xanadu in Arlington.
 Yankee Stadium is being pulled apart limb from limb, just as Shea Stadium was. Even if implosion were legal here, it wouldn't occur near a subway, a strip of businesses or residences. And Citi Field is so very close to where Shea was.
 What's left of the upper deck extends from where the right-field foul pole was to past home plate. The three excavators' destination on Wednesday was the segment that includes sections 24 to 28. One section, closer to where the left-field foul pole was, remains intact to its right.
 Cables linked the excavators to the upper deck. At about 1:44 p.m., the machines came to life, slowly rolling backward toward center field. Water shot out of two cannons and from atop a grappler, a process that is designed to minimize the dust cloud that will be created. As the excavators moved, tension on the cables increased. 
 Little pieces broke off the upper deck. A little dust kicked up. Then the activity stopped. 
 Konon said afterward by telephone that what looked like a failed attempt at the pull-down was a first step: yanking out wedges, or temporary braces, that were installed in the section after the beams were compromised.
 Ten minutes later, the excavators dipped their buckets and clamped onto a beam with three cables on it. Back and forth they went, their buckets raised higher, the cable getting tauter, looser, tauter. They stopped again. 
 Several workmen walked upstairs into what once passed for concourses. They returned in a few minutes. Konon said they most likely went inside to retrieve the gas canisters used for the torches.
 Again, the excavators rolled backward to where Mantle and Joe D and Bernie once chased fly balls.
 Within seconds, the section came out like a wisdom tooth extracted. The concrete portion of the roof tumbled forward, then down, followed by the risers where seats were once attached. The dust cloud dissipated quickly.
 Visit the Bronx on Thursday. Watch 'em taken down another piece of history.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Pulling down the upper deck at the old stadium involves destabilizing the beams and using excavators and cables. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); CITY LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); DALLAS, TX, USA (65%) TEXAS, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



275 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: Fashion Feels Fur's Warm Embrace

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
LAST month, Johnny Weir, the United States figure skater, switched one of his costumes for the Vancouver Olympics after he said he received threats from anti-fur activists for accessorizing his already colorful wardrobe with just a touch of white fox. At almost the same moment, fashion designers in New York were showing fall collections with so much fur that they seemed to collectively stick a thumb in the eye of political correctness. 
 Did the designers forget that wearing fur is fraught with controversy? Or did they simply stop caring?
 There were fancy fox cuffs (Oscar de la Renta), wild-looking coyote capes (Michael Kors), bizarrely colorful mink jackets (Chris Benz, Peter Som), knitted furs (Proenza Schouler, Diane Von Furstenberg) and capes trimmed with raccoon tails (for men, courtesy of Thom Browne). The following week, the runways of Milan were perhaps even hairier, from the fur-collared coats at Prada to the fox mukluks at D & G. 
 For the first time in more than two decades, more designers are using fur than not. Almost two thirds of those in New York are, based on a review of more than 130 collections that were shown on Style.com last month, which is a surprising development during a recession. And it didn't just happen because of some idea that was floating around in the collective designer ether.
 Rather, fur became a trend because of a marketing campaign. 
 Over the last 10 years, furriers have aggressively courted designers, especially young ones, to embrace fur by giving them free samples and approaching them through trade groups -- sometimes when they are still in college. Last summer, for example, the designers Alexander Wang and Haider Ackermann, plus Alexa Adams and Flora Gill of Ohne Titel were flown to Copenhagen for weeklong visits to the design studios of Saga Furs, a marketing company that represents 3,000 fur breeders in Finland and Norway. Saga Furs regularly sponsors such design junkets. The designers were given carte blanche to use fur with state-of-the-art techniques.
 Mr. Wang and the Ohne Titel designers ended up including fur in their fall collections. Mr. Ackermann, in Paris, included fur scarves and a narrow wool jacket with ribbons of fur protruding from its collar. 
 ''We were seeing all of these new possibilities in which you can use fur in a very light way,'' Ms. Adams said. ''Fur gives a richness in texture. It's like discovering something new that also has an interesting history.'' 
 Several young designers echoed that sentiment, saying they were less interested in fur as a luxury statement or an act of defiance than as a novel design. Mr. Wang said he had not intended to use fur in his collection but decided to after seeing so many plush fabrics that resembled fur. ''The point was to create that rich, luscious feel while blending the lines between what was real and what was fake,'' he said.
 In Denmark, Ms. Adams said, she learned of a technique of sewing extremely thin, evenly spaced strips of fox onto a layer of silk, creating the look of a fox coat with a third of the weight and expense. For their show, she and Ms. Gill showed a version in army green. Carine Roitfeld, the editor of French Vogue, admired it, so the designers sent the sample, which would cost $10,400 in a store, to her hotel for her to wear throughout Fashion Week. Ms. Roitfeld was photographed so often in the coat that they decided she could keep it. After all, their cost to make it was nothing.
 Much like lobbying groups in Washington, various cooperatives representing breeders, farmers and auction houses around the world solicit designers to use their furs. Saga, one of the biggest cooperatives, provided the furs used this season by the New York labels Cushnie et Ochs, Thakoon, Brian Reyes, Wayne, Derek Lam, Proenza Schouler and Richard Chai, in addition to Ohne Titel and Alexander Wang. 
 Another cooperative, the North American Fur Auctions (NAFA) in Seattle, gave furs to the newcomers Bibhu Mohapatra and Prabal Gurung and worked with marquee designers who make separate fur collections, including Carolina Herrera, Oscar de la Renta and Michael Kors.
 ''We'll give them furs to make three, four, five, even six different garments,'' said Steve Gold, a marketing director for the North American group, which represents farmers in Canada and the United States. ''The quid pro quo is simply that they mention our name to the press.''
 Neither marketing group would disclose its budget, but Mr. Gold said it was typical to spend ''hundreds of thousands of dollars'' each year.
 ''We want to make sure fur is on the pages of magazines around the world,'' he said. ''The way to do that is to facilitate the use of fur by designers.''
 Their success has infuriated anti-fur activists like Dan Mathews, the senior vice president of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, who described the fur marketing as ''a smoke and mirrors campaign, where they give designers money and free fur to accessorize the runway, even though that stuff never ends up in shops.''
 Several of those designers are too young to remember the vicious battles over fur in the 1980s and '90s, when a PETA member tossed a dead raccoon onto the plate of Anna Wintour while she was dining at the Four Seasons; another tossed a tofu cream pie in Mr. de la Renta's face. But some remain sheepish on the subject. Thakoon Panichgul, for example, showed a coat in his fall collection with strips of fox bursting from the sleeves, but he declined to be interviewed for this article because of the controversy. 
 Others said they felt confident using fur after examining the chain of production and finding it humane.
 ''You see so much leather and shearling being used this season, and no one is complaining about that,'' Ms. Adams said. ''I don't see the difference between using shearling and using fur.'' 
 Saga sponsors courses and competitions at design schools, including at the Fashion Institute of Technology and Parsons the New School for Design (as does PETA). 
 ''We bring them knowledge about fur early in the design process,'' said Charles Ross, the director of international activities for Saga.
 That is how Irina Shabayeva, the winner of the sixth season of ''Project Runway,'' was introduced to fur. In 2003, while a student at Parsons, Ms. Shabayeva won a fur design contest sponsored by Saga. The prize was a trip to Scandinavia. After Ms. Shabayeva started her own collection, Saga introduced her to Funtastic Furs, a company that makes furs for designers like Peter Som and Catherine Malandrino.
 ''They were kind enough to sew up a few pieces for me,'' Ms. Shabayeva said. Actually, her fall collection looked as if it had been conceived in a taxidermist's studio. The opening look was a dress made of the long plumes of a pheasant.
 The sales of fur in the United States, and its appearance on the runways, fell in the 1980s as a result of the aggressive protests. But attitudes began to change, and fur began to make a slow comeback, from sales under $1 billion in this country in the early '90s to $1.8 billion in 2006, according to figures released by the Fur Information Council of America. Naomi Campbell, who once posed for PETA, now has a fur coat named after her at Dennis Basso.
 But many of those gains were erased in the last three years, following an unusually warm winter in 2007, and then the recession. There was little fur on the runways in 2009, as designers sought to rein in prices.
 Now, as fur is becoming trendy, skin prices at auction have shot up in response to increased demand; the price of a male mink pelt approaches $100 in Finland, up 40 percent over last year. A silver fox pelt is now $200, up 20 percent.
 That raises questions about how good this trend will be for the designers, should stores buy their furs. Most have little experience in the fur market, and they will have to pay for the specialized production of their designs, which is far more expensive than ready-to-wear made from fabric. And if their fur pieces don't sell next fall, they will be stuck with a lot of expensive coats.
 ''That's a big question mark,'' said Brian Reyes, whose show included several pieces made for him by Funtastic Furs. ''The fur industry has different ways of buying or selling. Who buys it? Where does fur sell well? It's all a new experience.''
 In his showroom sits a big cobalt blue fox coat -- so big, Mr. Reyes said, it could stand up on its own. The price was $6,750. Though he showed several fur coats, he does not expect to sell many this year, as he is just beginning to test the market and wants to be cautious. 
 But other designers are already taking orders. Ohne Titel sold more than 15 shearling and fox vests, priced under $2,000, in the days after its show. Derek Lam, who has worked with Saga for several years, has found fur designs to be lucrative. From his pre-fall collection in 2008, Mr. Lam sold 148 short riding jackets trimmed with mink, which cost $1,990. Now Mr. Lam offers furs priced from $4,500 to $30,000.
 ''If you sell two,'' said Jan-Hendrik Schlottmann, the chief executive of Derek Lam, ''you are doing really well.''
 Of the fox coat worn by Ms. Roitfeld, even without the sample, Ohne Titel already has orders from stores for 10.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHAT CONTROVERSY? A Derek Lam fur trimmed coat for fall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA RINALDI/REUTERS) (E1)
CHANGE IN ATTITUDE: Fashion labels that showed fur at New York Fashion Week included, clockwise from left: Thakoon, Altuzarra, Chris Benz, Brian Reyes, Peter Som and, right, Cushnie et Ochs. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FROM LEFT, CHRIS MOORE/CATWALKING -- GETTY IMAGES
CARY HOROWITZ /REUTERS
JASON DeCROW/ASSOCIATED PRESS
STEPHEN CHERNIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS
ABOVE LEFT, CATWALKING.COM
ERIN BAIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ADMIRER: Carine Roitfeld in an Ohne Titel fox coat she wore throughout Fashion Week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATY WINN/GETTY IMAGES FOR IMG) (E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (89%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (78%); WINTER OLYMPICS (78%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); FASHION DESIGN (77%); FABRICS (77%); FUR FARMING (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%)

PERSON: DIANE VON FURSTENBERG (56%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



276 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Amending for Its Bias, City Offers New Homes

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
HAMTRAMCK, Mich. -- Even though more than 50 years have passed since Sallie Sanders was a confused little girl wondering why her family was kicked out of their house for being on the wrong side of the color line here, the pain seems fresh. 
 ''Just abruptly, we had to end up staying with relatives and friends,'' said Ms. Sanders, a retired state worker who is black and who, at age 60, still has trouble recounting the ordeal without breaking into tears. ''It was kind of devastating. My parents tried to protect us quite a bit, but I knew something was wrong.''
 And something was. In 1971, a federal judge found that this old manufacturing town, five miles from downtown Detroit, had deliberately used urban renewal projects throughout the 1950s and '60s to obliterate black areas from its two square miles, displacing hundreds of families. 
 Although the judge, Damon J. Keith, ordered a remedy, and Hamtramck agreed to build new housing, it did not. For decades. 
 Now, though, in a time of deep recession and a housing slump in one of the most economically depressed states in the country, Hamtramck (pronounced ham-TRAM-eck) is at last fulfilling its legal -- and what officials now call moral -- obligation to provide affordable housing to the mostly poor families who were dislodged generations ago. And if the plaintiffs in the original class-action lawsuit are no longer living, as in Ms. Sanders's case, children and grandchildren are eligible.
 About 100 houses have been completed for rent or sale, and another 100 are on the way, paid for by a mix of local and state money.
 In the last five years, the town began building the new houses, but the project stalled because of the recession. It is only now approaching the final stages of construction, thanks to a recent increase in federal stimulus money. The homes, mostly two- and three-bedroom models, cost $140,000 to $160,000, and subsidies can reduce the price to $100,000; most rentals are in the $400-a-month range, after government assistance. 
 But beyond the building, Hamtramck has changed in another way, too. According to the Census Bureau, it is now Michigan's most international and diverse city, having evolved from a town that was 90 percent Polish just 40 years ago. With the changes came new attitudes about how to deal with the past. 
 Just weeks ago, Ms. Sanders moved into a new ranch-style house on the same street where her family once lived, and Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm personally handed over the keys. As a young lawyer, Ms. Granholm was a clerk to Judge Keith in the late 1980s.
 ''We went full circle, and it's pretty wonderful,'' said Ms. Sanders, whose parents, now dead, were among the 250 plaintiffs who sued the city. ''To acknowledge that, O.K., they were wrong, that gives me a little satisfaction because my parents were mistreated so. I just wish they were here to see it.''
 The home building is also what experts call a bittersweet finale to one of the longest-running housing discrimination suits to weave its way through court, having begun in the civil rights era. Beyond its age, the case is also distinctive in that it happened at all. While Hamtramck may be an extreme example, experts said housing discrimination against blacks in the mid-1900s was common, but class-action lawsuits were rare because of their expense and complexity. 
 Some contend that urban renewal projects were routinely used to demolish black areas, and that most of the housing was never replaced. 
 ''This case is unusual in a good way,'' said Victor Goode, a lawyer with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
 Michael Barnhart, an expert on fair-housing law and the lead lawyer in the Hamtramck case, agreed. ''This kind of discrimination happened all over the country,'' Mr. Barnhart said, citing Chicago, Detroit and other cities. 
 Over the last 10 years, as the settlement appeared to be coming to fruition, Mr. Barnhart and a local minister, the Rev. Joseph R. Jordan, met with surviving plaintiffs and their families just about weekly, spending hours trying to work out the details of moving hundreds of families back to town, most from Detroit. 
 ''We had tried several times over the years to get something started, but really couldn't find the funding,'' Mr. Barnhart said. 
 Judge Keith, who now sits on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, called the case ''difficult'' and ''depressing'' in an interview. But, he added: ''I was there to see Sallie Sanders get the keys. It was meaningful to me as a human being.''
 Charnita Monday, 64, is renting one of the new houses. She moved to Hamtramck from Bessemer, Ala., looking for factory work in the late 1960s. The home she bought was among those condemned.
 ''The judge just kept hammering on the case, and all those years, they wouldn't let it go,'' said Ms. Monday, who is black. ''I think an injustice has been righted.''
 ''I had gotten physically tired, mentally tired and even tired of praying,'' she said. ''But now, it's like you got a new life, you know?'' 
 In his 1971 opinion, Judge Keith wrote that testimony showed that Hamtramck officials were well aware of the difficulties their actions caused for blacks, but that they ''ignored their requests for assistance, failed to investigate complaints and in no way compensated such displacees for the loss suffered.'' 
 He also chastised the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development for approving Hamtramck's plans and failing to protect the plaintiffs' rights.
 After decades, Hamtramck has an opportunity, however painful, to come to terms with itself. 
 ''Nobody with a conscience wants the burden of this enormous charge of racial discrimination to be hanging over them and who they are,'' said Mayor Karen Majewski. ''It's important that we do whatever we can to redeem ourselves, our history and reputation.''
 ''And it's been very hard to find a way to do that,'' Ms. Majewski said, ''because you know what this economy is like.'' 
 Hamtramck, despite its size, has always had a large sense of self and pride -- so much so that it refused to be annexed by Detroit like so many other small towns were in the early 1900s, forcing the city to grow around it. As a result, Hamtramck, originally a homogenous village, is now a city within a city, and in the last few decades it has become a first stop for immigrants from Bangladesh, Yemen, Albania and Lebanon, among a host of other countries. As of the 2000 census, 41 percent of Hamtramck's population of 23,000 was foreign-born.
 Alongside church bells, the Muslim call to prayer is broadcast by loudspeakers every day. Twenty-five languages are spoken in the public schools.
 To Mr. Jordan, the minister, Hamtramck is almost unrecognizable as the same place that tore down his friends' neighborhoods. ''We have made tremendous progress,'' he said. 
 Ms. Monday said she had been distraught after her house was demolished and she had to move her five young children into a small apartment in Detroit, where she lived until her new home became available in 2008.
 ''When I left, I was bitter,'' she said. ''It's a different place now. It's been good to me, and I'm happy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hamtramck, Mich., has built homes to address past housing bias. Charnita Monday, seated, is renting the one on the left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POOR POPULATION (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); JUDGES (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RECESSION (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); LITIGATION (69%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); CLASS ACTIONS (64%); CENSUS (50%)

PERSON: DAMON J KEITH (79%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



277 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Texas Conservatives Seek Deeper Stamp on Texts

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Tex. -- Even as a panel of educators laid out a vision Wednesday for national standards for public schools, the Texas school board was going in a different direction, holding hearings on changes to its social studies curriculum that would portray conservatives in a more positive light, emphasize the role of Christianity in American history and include Republican political philosophies in textbooks.
 The hearings are the latest round in a long-running cultural battle on the 15-member State Board of Education, a battle that could have profound consequences for the rest of the country, since Texas is one of the largest buyers of textbooks. 
 The board is expected to take a preliminary vote this week on a raft of changes to the state's social studies curriculum proposed by the seven conservative Republicans on the board. A final vote will come in May.
 Conservatives argue that the proposed curriculum, written by a panel of teachers, emphasizes the accomplishments of liberal politicians -- like the New Deal and the Great Society -- and gives less importance to efforts by conservatives like President Ronald Reagan to limit the size of government. 
 ''There is a bias,'' said Don McLeroy, a dentist from College Station who heads up the board's conservative faction. ''I think the left has a real problem seeing their own bias.''
 The three-day meeting is the first time the board has met since voters in last week's Republican primaries voted to oust Dr. McLeroy and another conservative and threw the future makeup of the board up in the air. Two other members -- a conservative Republican and a moderate Democrat -- are not seeking re-election, and it is unclear what the balance of power will be after the general election. At present, the seven hard-core conservatives are often joined by one or more moderate members in votes on curriculum questions. 
 Dr. McLeroy still has 10 months to serve and he, along with rest of the religious conservatives on the board, have vowed to put their mark on the guidelines for social studies texts.
 For instance, one guideline requires publishers to include a section on ''the conservative resurgence of the 1980s and 1990s, including Phyllis Schlafly, the Contract with America, the Heritage Foundation, the Moral Majority and the National Rifle Association.'' 
 There have also been efforts among conservatives on the board to tweak the history of the civil rights movement. One amendment states that the movement created ''unrealistic expectations of equal outcomes'' among minorities. Another proposed change removes any reference to race, sex or religion in talking about how different groups have contributed to the national identity.
 The amendments are also intended to emphasize the unalloyed superiority of the ''free-enterprise system'' over others and the desirability of limited government. 
 One says publishers should ''describe the effects of increasing government regulation and taxation on economic development and business planning.'' 
 Throughout the standards, the conservatives have pushed to drop references to American ''imperialism,'' preferring to call it expansionism. ''Country and western music'' has been added to the list of cultural movements to be studied. 
 References to Ralph Nader and Ross Perot are proposed to be removed, while Stonewall Jackson, the Confederate general, is to be listed as a role model for effective leadership, and the ideas in Jefferson Davis's inaugural address are to be laid side by side with Abraham Lincoln's speeches.
 Early in the hearing on Wednesday, Mr. McLeroy and other conservatives on the board made it clear they would offer still more planks to highlight what they see as the Christian roots of the Constitution and other founding documents.
 ''To deny the Judeo-Christian values of our founding fathers is just a lie to our kids,'' said Ken Mercer, a San Antonio Republican.
 The new guidelines, when finally approved, will influence textbooks for elementary, middle school and high school. They will be written next year and will be in effect for 10 years. 
 In other testimony Wednesday, Hispanic activists asked that more Latino figures be written into the social studies curriculum, particularly early residents of Texas who fought the central government in Mexico when Texas still was part of Mexico. American Indians complained that their history had been given short shrift.
 Many other people came to the meeting to support the conservative slate of amendments, including some people enraged at what they saw as socialist tendencies in Washington. One man asserted that the Tea Party movement should be included in the textbooks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Diana Gomez, center, and Garrett Mize, right, and other University of Texas students rallied against conservatives at a State Board of Education meeting Wednesday in Austin, Tex. The board's chairman, Gail Lowe, left, is one of the conservatives. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACK PLUNKETT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); CURRICULA (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HISTORY (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); RELIGION (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (59%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



278 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: Another Republican Is Encouraged to Join the Race for Senate

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Encouraged by state and national Republican Party leaders, Dan Senor, an author, private equity executive and Defense Department adviser in the last Bush administration, is seriously considering a political challenge against Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, according to three people told of the discussions.
 Mr. Senor, 38, who is married to the CNN anchorwoman Campbell Brown, is expected to decide in the next month whether to run. The discussions between Mr. Senor and the Republican leaders reflect their dissatisfaction with the existing field of Republican candidates in the state and their consensus that Ms. Gillibrand remains vulnerable to a challenger in the election this fall. 
 In recent weeks, as Democratic political prospects have soured, a number of big-name Republicans -- including Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor and presidential candidate -- have urged Mr. Senor to consider running.
 ''Rudy is very impressed with him and pleased that he is considering running,'' said Anthony V. Carbonetti, a senior adviser to Mr. Giuliani, who said the former mayor had lunch with Mr. Senor a few days ago.
 Among others who have encouraged him are Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee; Michael R. Long, the leader of the New York Conservative Party; and Edward F. Cox, the chairman of the state's Republican Party, according to people with direct knowledge of the conversations
 The Republican leaders, who cautioned that they were not backing any single candidate, have told Mr. Senor that his deep ties in the party, expertise on national security and background as a businessman would make him a formidable candidate. His New York roots do not hurt, either: he was born in Utica, which could appeal to upstate voters wary of his Manhattan address. 
 Mr. Senor declined to be interviewed for this article. 
 Ms. Gillibrand, who was appointed to the Senate last year by Gov. David A. Paterson, appears to be cruising toward the Democratic nomination, but the depth of her support across the state is unclear. National Democratic leaders have aggressively, and successfully, sought to elbow out potential primary challengers to Ms. Gillibrand, like Representative Steve Israel and Harold E. Ford Jr., a former United States representative from Tennessee. 
 She has had lackluster poll ratings, and with Democrats headed into difficult midterm elections, Republicans see a chance to win a Senate seat in New York. So far, two Republicans have said they will run: Bruce A. Blakeman, who dropped out of the New York mayoral race last year, and David Malpass, a former economist at Bear Stearns who worked in the Reagan administration. 
 As a late entry into the race, Mr. Senor would need to raise an estimated $15 million over the next seven months to compete in the primary and then against Ms. Gillibrand, who is known as a thoroughbred in the Democratic fund-raising world. Republican Party leaders have pledged to aid him, and a number of influential donors have told him that they will raise money for him if he runs.
 Powerful surrogates are already vouching for Mr. Senor (pronounced See-NOR). Last weekend, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, promoted Mr. Senor as a possible Senate candidate during a speech to big donors of the Republican Jewish Coalition in Las Vegas, Mr. Graham's office confirmed. 
 A Senor Senate candidacy could complicate the work of his wife, whose nightly program on CNN emphasizes its nonpartisan approach to news and politics. Her program at one point embraced the tagline ''No bias. No bull.'' 
 Maria Shriver took an unpaid leave as a reporter for NBC News in 2003 when her husband, Arnold Schwarzenegger, became a Republican candidate for governor of California. After he took office, she resigned her position, citing conflicts of interest between her jobs as a journalist and the state's first lady. 
 A CNN spokeswoman, Barbara Levin, said it was ''premature to comment at this point'' on the impact of Mr. Senor's aspirations on Ms. Brown. 
 The Republican world -- eager to retake a marquee Senate seat long held by titans of liberalism, like Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Hillary Rodham Clinton -- seems intrigued by Mr. Senor. 
 An adviser to Spencer Abraham of Michigan when Mr. Abraham was a senator, he has rotated in and out of government over the last two decades. He worked briefly at the politically connected Carlyle Group, a private equity firm in Washington. After the American-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, he became the civilian face of the coalition government, as policy adviser to the government and chief spokesman for L. Paul Bremer III, the top American administrator in Iraq.
 He co-founded the New York investment firm Rosemont Solebury Capital and co-wrote a best-selling book about Israel's rise in the global economy. He is known as fiscally conservative and socially moderate, a combination that eventually defined Alfonse M. D'Amato's time in the United States Senate from New York. 
 Mr. Cox, the Republican state chairman, attended a speech that Mr. Senor gave at the Council on Foreign Relations several months ago, and afterward encouraged Mr. Senor to enter the Republican primary, said a person familiar with the conversation. Mr. Senor expressed interest, and since then, the two have spoken frequently by telephone about the race. 
 At the same time, Mr. Senor has started to sound out state Republican leaders whose support could prove essential. About a week ago, he had a two-hour dinner with Mr. Long, the chairman of the state's Conservative Party, and John Faso, the Republican candidate for governor in 2006, who lost to Eliot Spitzer and is a friend of Mr. Senor's. 
 Over seafood and pasta at Chadwick's, in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, Mr. Long, Mr. Faso and Mr. Senor discussed the field of Republican candidates that Mr. Senor might face in the primary, and which political operatives he might hire, Mr. Long said. 
 Mr. Senor told them he was brainstorming with John McLaughlin, a Republican consultant whose firm, McLaughlin & Associates, has worked for the state Conservative Party, Mr. Schwarzenegger and the presidential candidate Steve Forbes. ''He was very serious when we spoke,'' Mr. Long said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dan Senor is expected to decide within a month on a candidacy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM B. PLOWMAN/NBC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); FUNDRAISING (61%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (78%); JOHN CORNYN (58%); STEVE ISRAEL (58%); DAVID PATERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTICA, NY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



279 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: A Convert to Reform

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY; Louise Story contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For 18 years, Gary G. Gensler worked on Wall Street, striking merger deals at the venerable Goldman Sachs. Then in the late 1990s, he moved to the Treasury Department, joining a Washington establishment that celebrated the power of markets and fought off regulation at almost every turn.
 Today, he is emerging as one of the nation's archreformers, pushing to impose some of the most stringent new financial regulations in history. And as the head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the leading contender to oversee the complex derivatives contracts that played a central role in the financial crisis and, in turn, the Great Recession, he is in a position to influence the outcome.
 It may seem an unlikely conversion, but it is one that has won the approval of Brooksley E. Born, of all people, a former outspoken head of the commission. She sounded alarms more than a decade ago about the dangers hiding in the poorly understood derivatives market and was silenced by the same Washington power brokers that counted Mr. Gensler as a member. 
 Mr. Gensler opposed Ms. Born, according to people who worked at the commission in the 1990s, and in 2000 played a significant role in shepherding through Congress deregulation measures that led to explosive growth of the over-the-counter derivatives market. 
 That was then. These days, Ms. Born is convinced of Mr. Gensler's reformist zeal, as he takes on Wall Street in what is becoming one of the fiercest battles over regulation in the postcrisis era.
 ''I think he is doing very well,'' she said in an interview. ''He certainly seems to be committed to robust oversight of derivatives and limiting excessive speculation and leverage.''
 The proposals championed by Mr. Gensler, if adopted by Congress, would substantially alter what is now a largely unregulated market in over-the-counter derivatives, financial instruments used by companies and investors to protect themselves and bet on moves in variables, like interest rates or currencies, and to speculate.
 The proposals include forcing the big banks that sell derivatives to conduct their trades in the open on public exchanges and clear them through central clearinghouses, so that any investor can see the prices that dealers charge their customers. Today, those transactions are bilateral and private.
 The banks and their customers might have to post collateral or guarantees to prevent the kinds of panics seen during the financial crisis, in which some investors worried that trading partners might have trouble keeping their side of the contract. 
 In this way, the clearinghouses would work as circuit breakers in the great web of derivatives trading encircling the globe. Shifting the products, and the risk of default, off the books of the banks and onto these middlemen would ensure that no single bank was too interconnected to fail, the rationale goes.
 The banks, for their part, sense a threat to the billions of dollars in profits they earn each year from trading in these complex derivatives.
 The International Swaps and Derivatives Association, which represents the big Wall Street banks, says that if large dealers are forced to show their prices and trading positions in public, they may be reluctant to participate in the market -- and the resulting drying up of liquidity would force up costs.
 Conrad P. Voldstad, the association's chief executive, said that derivatives were not the cause of the crisis. The problem was elsewhere, like subprime mortgages, he says, and those areas should be the focus of any new regulation.
 Public statements from the organization's member banks, however, have been less critical of Mr. Gensler's proposals. Lucas van Praag, a spokesman for Goldman, said on Wednesday that the company supported letting regulators see derivatives trades and prices in real time, with a delay built in for public disclosure. Goldman also does not oppose a clearinghouse for trades, he said. 
 ''We're in favor of central clearing for derivatives,'' he said. ''We also think that all derivatives that can be traded on an exchange should be, but we don't think it is a good idea to insist that derivatives can only be traded if they're on an exchange.''
 Some big nonfinancial companies that use the derivatives for hedging are fighting the reforms for their own reasons.
 Organizations including the United States Chambers of Commerce have formed the Coalition of Derivatives End-Users, representing about 170 companies including Coca-Cola, Caterpillar and General Electric. The group argues that the changes could make derivatives too expensive for them to use -- or tie up capital they should be putting to work in their businesses.
 ''The question is how much is legitimate hedging by corporations'' as opposed to speculative trading, said Don M. Chance, a finance professor at Louisiana State University. ''You have to be careful you don't punish companies that want to use swaps in a productive, safe manner.''
 Already, it seems, industry lobbying is watering down the changes. As bills have made their way through Congress, some corporate buyers of derivatives, for example, have been exempted from having to trade publicly and through clearinghouses.
 Mr. Gensler's conversion would seem to put him at odds with his mentors, like Robert E. Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, and with his former colleagues on Wall Street. 
 ''Wall Street's interest is not always the same as the public's interest,'' he says now. ''Wall Street thrives and makes money in inefficient markets, and I am creating efficiencies in the market.''
 But he denies there has been a change in his stance. At the Treasury, he says, he was obliged to voice the opinions of the institution; that is different from now heading his own agency. 
 Besides, even at Treasury, he and his colleagues, including Mr. Rubin, had their own concerns about the risks of derivatives. 
 At the time of the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s, Mr. Rubin asked him to investigate American banks' exposure to South Korea through their over-the-counter derivatives positions, and they were amazed, he says, at how little information the banks could provide.
 ''Knowing what we know now, we should have banged the table more forcefully,'' he says.
 The American derivatives market was much smaller then, and its dangers were less apparent than they are now. It has grown rapidly over the last decade, to $300 trillion, Mr. Gensler calculates. That is a staggering 20 times the size of the nation's annual economic output, as Mr. Gensler describes it, aided by high-speed computerized trading and the actions of Mr. Gensler and his cohort in Washington.
 Since that time, he says, he has demonstrated his belief in market rules and progressive Democratic politics. After Treasury, he worked as an aide to Senator Paul S. Sarbanes to help draft the Sarbanes-Oxley law, which imposed strict rules and oversight of corporate accounting after the bookkeeping scandals at companies like Enron and WorldCom. 
 He worked on the presidential campaign of Barack Obama, seeking chief executive endorsements. For that work, he was offered the job at the commission. 
 At Goldman, Mr. Gensler made partner by age 30 and earned his fortune. Mr. Rubin, also a Goldman alumnus, brought Mr. Gensler to Treasury. From him, Mr. Gensler says, he learned ''that process matters. He always ran a very inclusive process.'' 
 ''What's so marvelous about Bob,'' he continued, was that ''he fostered in people the ability to think. He wanted to hear differing ideas.'' 
 Mr. Gensler, 52, denies that his current position puts him at odds with what Mr. Rubin stood for. Theystill talk now, about every six months. 
 During his first year at the Treasury, he was excluded from matters involving derivatives after it became clear that his former employer, Goldman, was lobbying hard on the issue. 
 It was then that Ms. Born began to ask whether the fast-growing and poorly understood market needed greater oversight, inviting an aggressive reaction from Mr. Rubin; Lawrence H. Summers, Mr. Rubin's deputy at the Treasury; and Arthur Levitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 The Commodity Futures Modernization Act of 2000, backed by the likes of Mr. Rubin, sidelined the trading commission even more than before. If Congress agrees to reverse many of the measures contained in that law, Mr. Gensler says he intends to rebuild the commission by increasing its staff to about 1,000, from 600 today, and by increasing the computing power at its disposal to try to keep up with Wall Street's traders.
 The new rules would be policed by the S.E.C. and the trading commission, giving Mr. Gensler's group a new and bigger role after years in the background. The agency would assume oversight for about 90 percent of the over-the-counter market, he estimates; today it has few oversight powers.
 ''I disagree with anyone who says derivatives did not play a part in the crisis,'' he said in defense of more oversight. He added: ''Like San Francisco after the earthquake, we had a calamity, and now we need building codes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, made partner at Goldman by age 30, then worked at Treasury under Robert Rubin. (B1)
 If Congress agrees to some re-regulation, Gary Gensler, right, intends to rebuild his commission by increasing staff to about 1,000.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MERGERS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); APPROVALS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); FUTURES (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



280 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Student Loan Overhaul Endangered

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With Democratic Congressional leaders and the White House struggling on Wednesday to finalize the details of major health care legislation, House Democrats were desperately trying to prevent another of President Obama's top legislative priorities an ambitious overhaul of student loan programs from becoming a casualty of the health care battle.
 But Democrats in the Senate, where the private student lending industry has strong allies, predicted on Wednesday night that the education bill would not be part of an expedited budget measure containing the final revisions to the health care legislation. Some Democrats said that such a move would stall the student loan changes at a minimum for several months, and perhaps kill the overhaul altogether. 
 Mr. Obama's plan would end a program in which the government pays private, for-profit student lending companies to make risk-free loans using taxpayer money. Instead, the proposed overhaul would broaden the government's existing direct-lending program, saving billions of dollars that the president had proposed using to expand Pell grant scholarships for low-income students.
 But the education bill is strongly opposed by some Senate Democrats, particularly those in states where for-profit student lenders are major employers. In a letter to the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, six Democrats said they disliked the president's proposal.
 ''We write to make you aware of our concern with provisions of contemplated student lending reform that could put jobs at risk,'' the senators wrote. ''Increase our nation's commitment to higher education funding is a priority, but we must proceed toward this objective in a thoughtful manner that considers potential alternative legislative proposals, while still delivering an equivalent amount of savings over the next ten years.
 The letter was signed by Senators Thomas R. Carper of Delaware, Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, Ben Nelson of Nebraska, Bill Nelson of Florida, Mark Warner of Virginia and Jim Webb of Virginia.
 The private student lenders insist that the government can save money while allowing them to continue earning some profit on government loans. Supporters of the legislation have repeatedly refuted those arguments, noting that workers would still be needed to originate and service loans made directly by the government. Some private lenders already do that work for the government. The only difference, supporters of the legislation say, is that private lenders would not profit, as they do now, by lending out government money and then selling the loans back to the government.
 Provisions in a budget reconciliation bill must meet budget targets for reducing the federal deficit. Mr. Conrad said the education bill could no longer meet that requirement because the projected savings from ending the payments to private student lenders had decreased, according to a recent cost analysis by the Congressional Budget Office, while the cost of expanding Pell grants had grown. As a result, he said the bill as currently written would no longer reduce the deficit.
 The House bill was projected to save $87 billion over 10 years and would have spent $87 billion on Pell grants and other education initatives. Mr. Reid's office said a more recent estimate showed the bill would increase future deficits by about $36 billion.
 The bill would save less money because many schools are already switching to the direct lending program, and would cost more because amid the economic downturn more people are going back to school and seeking Pell grants and other assistance.
 House Democrats say the bill was never intended to spend more money than it saved, and that the legislation could easily be adjusted to meet the reconciliation requirements.
 ''Obviously, Sallie Mae and other banks, with their fistfulls of cash, are starting to have their way in the United States Senate,'' one Democratic Congressional aide said.
 In a meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Miller and other House Democrats pressed Mr. Conrad to rely on an earlier cost analysis of the House bill that had been prepared by the budget office.
 In a meeting on Tuesday Mr. Miller and other House Democrats pressed Mr. Conrad to rely on an earlier cost analysis of the House bill that had been prepared by the budget office. Mr. Conrad refused, arguing that even if he could legally rely on the prior analysis, it was outdated.
 In an interview, Mr. Conrad suggested that the best course of action would be for the education changes to be adopted through a reconciliation bill in next year's budget process. Congress could approve a new budget resolution later this spring, and Mr. Conrad said the education bill could be adopted soon after that. But given the uncertainties of a mid-term election year, some supporters of the education bill predicted that it would simply die.
 ''I am strongly supportive of the education package,'' Mr. Conrad said in an interview. ''But I am also insisting that it be paid for.''
 Private, for-profit student lenders, including Sallie Mae, have lobbied fiercely against the president's plan. But they were unable to stop House Democrats from approving a bill. Critics of the industry say it reaps large, and unjustified profits, by originating loans made with taxpayer money. The industry insists that it provides valuable services to borrowers and competition for the direct government lending program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); STUDENT LOANS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); POOR POPULATION (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL NELSON (79%); MARK WARNER (58%); TOM CARPER (58%); HARRY REID (58%); BEN NELSON (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%); JIM WEBB (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



281 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 PALESTINIANS HOLD TO PLAN 
 For Talks With Israel
 Palestinian leaders meeting with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in the West Bank harshly condemned Israel's decision, announced a day earlier, to add 1,600 housing units for Jews in East Jerusalem. But they gave no indication that they would stay away from the approaching indirect peace negotiations with the Israelis. PAGE A14
 Review of U.N. Climate Findings A7 
 U.S. to Continue Aid for Haiti A9
 National
 IN HEALTH CARE PUSH, 
 Obama Focuses on Waste
 President Obama continued his ramped-up drive for a health care overhaul, ordering a crackdown on Medicare and Medicaid waste and fraud, while dispatching his secretary of health and human services, Kathleen Sebelius, to take on insurance companies that have been lobbying against many of his proposals to remake the health care system. PAGE A16
 A CROWDED PRIMARY RACE
 The Republican primary contest in Arizona's Third Congressional District captures both the fluky quality of primary races in Arizona -- in which independents can vote -- as well as the everybody-in-the-pool nature of politics this year, with a parade of candidates, many of them nascent, caught up in a populist ferment. PAGE A14
 New York
 STATE PROPOSES NEW LIMITS 
 On Discounted Park Passes
 The Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation proposed eliminating or limiting two categories of qualified persons under its Access Pass program, which gives reduced or free admission to parks and other state-operated recreational facilities. Officials hope the move will add up to a million dollars a year to the state budget. PAGE A22
 Business
 TANKER CONTRACT BRINGS
 Optimism for Boeing
 Northrop Grumman's withdrawal this week from a $40 billion contest to build aerial refueling tankers provides Boeing with some welcome certainty about its future as a major builder of military aircraft, and helps raise hope for lucrative returns as the economy recovers. PAGE B1
 BETTING ON THE BOX OFFICE
 Cantor Futures Exchange, a subsidiary of Cantor Fitzgerald, expects to open an online futures market next month that will allow studios and moviegoers to place bets on the box-office revenue of Hollywood's biggest releases. PAGE B1
 Obituaries
 COREY HAIM, 38
 He shot to fame as a teenage heartthrob in the 1980s, but turned to substance abuse and rehabilitation as an adult. PAGE A23
 Sports
 JONES SIGNS CONTRACT
 To Play in W.N.B.A.
 The former sprinter Marion Jones signed a free-agent contract to play for the Tulsa Shock of the W.N.B.A., resurrecting an athletic career derailed by her admission to using performance-enhancing drugs and a prison sentence. PAGE B16
 Arts
 AN INTERVIEW FOR A JOB
 More Fraught Than Usual
 Janet Maslin writes that James Hynes's novel ''Next,'' about an anxiety-racked man on a trip to Austin, Tex., for a job interview, is much more potent than it may initially appear and has an ending that beggars description. PAGE C1
 Home
 A BUG-SNIFFING DOG
 To Scratch Your Itch
 Bedbug-sniffing dogs, adorable yet stunningly accurate, are the new front line in an escalating and confounding domestic war. PAGE D1
 Thursday Styles
 QUESTIONING THE SAFETY
 Of Trendy Baby Carriers
 As baby carriers --minimalist pouches and soft structured packs -- have grown more popular, their safety has been questioned, with particular alarm about slings, which have contributed to the suffocation deaths of several infants. PAGE E1
 Op-ed
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (83%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); LOBBYING (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); MEDICAID (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); INSURANCE (69%); MEDICARE (69%); TICKET SALES (69%); BUDGETS (69%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (68%); MOVIE REVENUES (66%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (62%); FUTURES (61%); SENTENCING (50%); JAIL SENTENCING (50%)

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (53%); BOEING CO (53%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (53%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (53%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) ARIZONA, USA (92%) ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); HAITI (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



282 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Senate Bill On Finance To Include Risk Agency

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT and SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate Banking Committee members from both parties said on Wednesday that they had agreed to include in their regulatory overhaul bill a new Office of Research and Analysis that would provide early warnings of possible systemic collapses.
 The proposed agency, which has sometimes been referred to as the National Institute of Finance, is intended to give federal regulators daily updates on the stability of individual firms as well as that of their trading partners, including hedge funds. 
 By standardizing financial instruments and reporting mechanisms, the agency would give regulators a broader view of the health of participants in the financial markets and the potential for problems to spread. The idea's supporters say that kind of information was lacking in recent years as the housing bubble burst and troubles spread from firm to firm.
 ''One of the problems we observed in the recent crisis is that nobody knew who had what,'' said Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat who last month introduced a stand-alone bill to establish a National Institute of Finance. ''The result was a cascading effect of uncertainty and doubt.''
 The new agency, which was also endorsed Wednesday by Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, would have no policy responsibilities but would instead collect and analyze data, building models to assess relative risks and predict how one firm's problems might affect others.
 As proposed, the new agency would be housed in the Treasury Department with a director, appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate, who would be an ex-officio member of a systemic risk council that would be created by the bill. The agency would draw its budget from assessments on the largest financial firms, according to people who are close to the negotiations but who were not authorized to speak publicly.
 The agency would gather data from the largest firms and from a broad set of market participants, including all United States-based financial institutions, which would be required to report all their financial transactions, regardless of whether the counterparty was based here or abroad. The agency would take steps to safeguard proprietary trading information, while also shining a light onto the so-called shadow banking system of mortgage brokers, subprime lenders and unregulated hedge funds that contributed to the financial crisis. 
 The financial reform bill approved last year by the House would create a systemic risk council that would collect similar data without establishing an independent agency, a difference that will have to be resolved before a bill is sent to the president.
 A group called the Committee to Establish the National Institute of Finance -- made up of current and former financial executives, statisticians and economists, including six Nobel laureates in economics -- has been lobbying for such an agency for much of the last year. 
 Allan I. Mendelowitz, a former director of the Federal Housing Finance Board who was a founder of the group, said in an interview that regulators were unable to assess expanding risk in the recent crisis in part because they relied on independent contractors, like the credit rating agencies, for data. 
 If a security was rated triple-A by the ratings agencies, for example, as were many mortgage-backed securities, regulators wrongly assumed that it posed little systemic risk, Mr. Mendelowitz said.
 The agency would require a vast array of computing capacity, supporters said, and it would probably take a couple of years to establish data standards and build analytical models. But it could immediately begin to assess counterparty risk based on existing data. 
 Senate negotiators also tentatively agreed to establish a $50 billion fund to finance the dissolution of failing firms that could not be rescued through bankruptcy proceedings. The fund is intended to support companies that are forced to wind down their operations, without having to resort to taxpayer bailouts.
 People who have been briefed on the negotiations said two proposals were under consideration. One would require financial companies to pay into a fund upfront and the other would have them buy interest-bearing shares in a trust that would allow the firms to keep the assets on their balance sheet.
 Also on Wednesday, five Senate Democrats, including two members of the Senate Banking Committee, Jeff Merkley of Oregon and Sherrod Brown of Ohio, introduced a bill that would ban deposit-taking banks from owning or investing in hedge funds or private equity funds and from making market bets for the company's own benefit. 
 President Obama put forward the idea in January and called it the Volcker Rule, in recognition of its champion, Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman. 
 The bill has been endorsed by John S. Reed, a former Citigroup chairman; the economist Joseph E. Stiglitz; and Robert B. Reich, a former labor secretary, among others. But it faces significant resistance in Congress and is unlikely to be part of the revised bill that is expected to be introduced this month by Senator Christopher J. Dodd, chairman of the Banking Committee. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Bob Corker said Wednesday he supported having an agency that would warn of problems in the financial industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); BUDGETS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (72%); HOUSING BUBBLE (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (60%); NOBEL PRIZES (60%)

PERSON: BOB CORKER (73%); JACK REED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



283 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Obama Faces Criticism Over Slow Pace of Action on Trade Issues

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After a year in which global exports declined 12 percent in the biggest contraction since World War II, trade policy is heating up again.
 But the question is whether the United States is prepared to lead the way or whether protectionist pressures will make it all but impossible for the Obama administration to engage fully with the country's trading partners.
 ''If you're serious, as the Obama administration is, about being a leader in the multinational system, you can't not provide leadership in the international trade arena,'' said Robert Z. Lawrence, a professor of international trade and investment at the Harvard Kennedy School. 
 On Wednesday, the director-general of the World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy, met with the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, and with the United States trade representative, Ron Kirk, to discuss American misgivings about the long-stalled Doha round of trade accords, which began in 2001.
 The Obama administration is also dealing with disputes with Mexico and Brazil over American restrictions on trucking and subsidies for cotton growers. 
 In the House, Mr. Kirk met with lawmakers on Wednesday to discuss talks on an Asian-Pacific regional trade agreement that are to start Monday in Melbourne, Australia.
 And in the Senate, there is interest in completing free-trade agreements that the Bush administration negotiated with Colombia, Panama and South Korea. The deals have languished over concerns about Korean restrictions on auto and appliance imports and worker rights in Colombia, but also because any trade-opening pact faces a struggle in Congress with unemployment so high.
 Mr. Obama has announced a goal of doubling exports in five years, and he plans to deliver a speech Thursday outlining steps to achieve that goal.
 All told, the developments amount to a new degree of attention on trade. But so far, supporters of freeing up trade say the administration has been slow to move.
 ''I love what the president said about doubling exports, but we haven't seen any action to go with it,'' Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the top Republican on the trade subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee, said.
 Similar sentiments were voiced last week when Mr. Kirk presented the administration's annual trade agenda to Congress.
 Appearing before the Senate Finance Committee, Mr. Kirk was peppered with questions on the proposed bilateral accords with Colombia, Panama and South Korea. President George W. Bush reached an agreement in principle in May 2007 to attach environmental and worker protections to the accords, but progress has stalled.
 ''Labor has not delayed our move on this, but labor does have a necessary voice and a seat at the table in this administration,'' Mr. Kirk told Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the top Republican on the committee.
 He added: ''We don't want trade to become the next wedge issue. So it means that those of us in Texas and Iowa and those at Caterpillar have to care and listen to the concerns of those, whether it's in Detroit or Pittsburgh or others, that may feel like they haven't benefited from this.''
 Mr. Lamy's trip to Washington, which was to include meetings with crucial lawmakers and with Richard L. Trumka, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president, is intended to spur interest in the Doha round before an important ''stock-taking exercise'' begins in Geneva on March 22.
 ''The idea is to explain the situation as it is and to listen to people's views here about possible ways to move the negotiation forward and give it momentum,'' a W.T.O. spokesman, Keith Rockwell, said. 
 But hurdles remain. The nominations of Michael Punke as ambassador to the W.T.O. and Islam A. Siddiqui as chief agricultural negotiator have stalled in the Senate.
 More significant, lawmakers in both parties say they believe that large emerging economies like Brazil, China and India need to give ground on opening their markets before the United States can agree to more liberalization.
 Senator Blanche Lincoln, an Arkansas Democrat who faces a tough re-election challenge, told Mr. Kirk that the current text of the Doha agreement lacked ''the proper balance between the concessions that are demanded of the United States and what we expect our trading partners to demonstrate as their commitment to opening up markets.''
 The administration also confronts two trade disputes.
 Brazil threatened last week to raise duties on a wide range of American-made imports, including cars and cosmetics, in a confrontation dating to 2002. The dispute concerns subsidies intended to buffer cotton growers from variations in commodity prices. W.T.O. arbitrators last year found the subsidies to be in violation of American agreements, and authorized Brazil to retaliate. 
 Brazil has not yet imposed the retaliatory measures, which could total $591 million. Gary Locke, the commerce secretary, went to Brasilia on Tuesday, along with Michael Froman, deputy national security adviser for international economic affairs, and Francisco J. Sanchez, senior adviser to the International Trade Administration. But they said little afterward about whether a compromise had been reached.
 On another front, the United States Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers and other business groups said Tuesday that Mexican tariffs had cost billions of dollars in lost exports and jobs.
 Last year, under pressure from unions, Congress moved to cancel a program that allowed Mexican trucks to cross the boundaries of the commercial border zone and move further into the United States, under a provision of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Mexico retaliated by applying $2.4 billion of tariffs on manufactured and agricultural products.
 Meanwhile, senators last week hammered away at concerns raised by constituents.
 Debbie Ann Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, accused the Chinese of ''cheating'' by subsidizing imports. Mrs. Lincoln asked Mr. Kirk about help for catfish farmers; Pat Roberts, a Kansas Republican, about beef; Thomas R. Carper, a Delaware Democrat, about poultry; Michael B. Enzi, a Wyoming Republican, about soda ash; and Maria Cantwell, a Washington Democrat, about European subsidies to Airbus, a chief rival of Boeing.
 Above all, the lawmakers urged action. ''The patience of the Congress is getting thin, at least for many of us, on these subjects,'' Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Finance Committee, told Mr. Kirk.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ron Kirk, the United States trade representative, said labor unions had ''a seat at the table'' when discussing free-trade deals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RON KIRK (89%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); KEVIN BRADY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); PASCAL LAMY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (70%) VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (55%) UNITED STATES (98%); COLOMBIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PANAMA (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



284 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 11, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Tanker Deal Gives a Lift To Boeing

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
Northrop Grumman's withdrawal this week from a $40 billion contest to build aerial refueling tankers provides Boeing with some welcome certainty about its future as a major builder of military aircraft.
 In recent years, the company faced growing concerns about this core part of its business. After all, some of its most profitable planes, like the C-17 cargo jet, were nearing the end of production. 
 The company's overall military business was hit harder than any major contractor by cuts in weapons programs last year, and its efforts to create new Army combat systems and defenses against missile systems have been scaled back. 
 The tanker contract also comes as Boeing's newest commercial planes, the 787 Dreamliner and the 747-8 freighter, have finally shaken lengthy delays and entered flight testing, raising hopes for lucrative returns as the economy recovers.
 ''There's a lot of ground to be made up and a lot of uncertainty still out there,'' said Richard Aboulafia, an aviation analyst at the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va. 
 But Boeing's airplane operations ''are definitely on the mend,'' he added.
 Still, Boeing's latest contract win could come at a price. It has angered European leaders, creating new tensions over disputes about subsidies for Airbus, which had teamed up with Northrop in the tanker bidding. 
 European officials have criticized the Obama administration's handling of the tanker competition as politically motivated, aimed principally at protecting American jobs.
 ''This has gone beyond acceptable,'' Pierre Lellouche, France's European Affairs Minister, told Reuters, adding that he did not consider the matter to be closed.
 The decision by Northrop and Airbus's parent, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, to drop out of the bidding undermines President Obama's efforts to increase competition for military contracts.
 Military analysts said that Pentagon officials would try to keep Boeing from pushing up its price for the tankers in the final negotiations.
 But Jacques S. Gansler, who was the Pentagon's top acquisition official in the Clinton administration, said that even if the military could hold down the price now, Boeing could be able to raise it in the future if there was no competitive pressure.
 As soon as the Pentagon makes the first changes in the planes or the number it is ordering, he said, that ''will give Boeing justification to say, 'O.K., but it will cost you more.' ''
 Analysts say Boeing's victory also suggests it has rebuilt its political influence since the Air Force's first attempt to replace its aging tankers collapsed in 2004 amid corruption charges involving a proposed leasing deal with Boeing. 
 Northrop and EADS then teamed up to compete with Boeing, and the two sides had waged an almost operatic struggle since then. Northrop and EADS upset Boeing in a competition in 2008, only to have the award overturned after Boeing protested that its rivals had unfairly received extra points for offering a larger plane.
 But instead of just tweaking those parts of the rules, Pentagon officials came up with a new approach to scoring the bids that was meant to be more objective.
 Representative Norm Dicks, Democrat of Washington State, where Boeing assembles many of its planes, said in an interview that he insisted the Pentagon consider how much the smaller Boeing plane would save in fuel and other costs over 40 years, rather than just over 25 years, as in the earlier competition.
 Referring to Northrop and EADS, he added, ''I think those factors alone made it almost impossible for them to win.'' 
 Ralph Crosby, the chairman of EADS North America, told WKRG-TV in Mobile, Ala., that these and other changes amounted to ''a very bad set of Department of Defense decisions'' that negated any advantages the larger plane could offer. 
 If it had won the tanker contract, EADS would have built its first American plant in Mobile. But it is now dropping plans for that factory, which also would have made freight planes, thus sparing Boeing from another threat.
 Northrop has also tried to put the Pentagon on the spot, pointing out that taxpayers should expect to pay less for Boeing's smaller plane than the $184 million that the larger Airbus tanker would have cost in 2008.
 Mr. Dicks, who recently became chairman of a House subcommittee that oversees the Pentagon budget, said the smaller Boeing plane could handle nearly all of the Pentagon's fuel deliveries. He also said Boeing had told him it would bid ''as if it is still in a competitive mode.'' 
 Whatever the final price, the contract will be a boon to Boeing in many ways.
 Its tanker will be based on its 767 passenger jet, which is being replaced by the Dreamliner. So the Air Force contract will allow it to maintain that production line in Everett, Wash., and add thousands of workers there and in Kansas, where it will also work on the planes. That could help ease some recent tensions with labor unions.
 James F. Albaugh, chief executive of Boeing's commercial airplanes division, said the tanker should eventually bring in up to $3 billion a year in revenue.
 Boeing persuaded Congress to approve $2.5 billion worth of additional C-17 cargo planes last year, and delays in Lockheed Martin's new F-35 fighter jet could force the Pentagon to buy more of Boeing's F/A-18 Super Hornets. 
 Pentagon officials plan to phase out those planes, however, and the tanker program will enable Boeing to offset much of the lost revenue. 
 Mr. Albaugh said in an interview on Monday that Boeing's commercial airline business was also starting to look up as the recession eased. He said Boeing was considering increases in the production rates for its 737 and 777 passenger jets.
 He also said that the Dreamliner -- which is critical to Boeing's future profits -- had performed well in its initial flight tests, with the first delivery still scheduled for December.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Given delays at Lockheed Martin, the Pentagon may buy more of Boeing's F/A-18 Super Hornets, above, built in St. Louis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 James F. Albaugh is chief executive of Boeing's commercial airplanes division. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY AIRCRAFT (91%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (79%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); ARMIES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); AIR FREIGHT (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); ARMED FORCES (72%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (57%); CORRUPTION (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%); AIRBUS SAS (91%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (85%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (83%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); NOC (NYSE) (85%); EAD (PAR) (83%); EAD (MCE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (91%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (85%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (85%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010



285 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 422 words

HEADLINE: Outraged by Glenn Beck's Salvo, Christians Fire Back

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
Last week, the conservative broadcaster Glenn Beck called on Christians to leave their churches if they hear preaching about social or economic justice, saying they were code words for Communism and Nazism. 
 This week the remarks prompted outrage from several Christian bloggers. The Rev. Jim Wallis, who leads the liberal Christian antipoverty group Sojourners, in Washington, called on Christians to leave Glenn Beck.
 ''What he has said attacks the very heart of our Christian faith, and Christians should no longer watch his show,'' Mr. Wallis wrote on his blog, God's Politics. ''His show should now be in the same category as Howard Stern.''
 In attacking churches that espouse social justice, Mr. Beck is taking on most mainline Protestant, Roman Catholic, black and Hispanic congregations in the country -- not to mention plenty of evangelical churches and even his own, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
 Mr. Beck said on his radio show on March 2, ''I beg you, look for the words 'social justice' or 'economic justice' on your church Web site. If you find it, run as fast as you can. Social justice and economic justice, they are code words.'' 
 ''Am I advising people to leave their church? Yes! If I am going to Jeremiah Wright's church,'' he said, referring to President Obama's former pastor in Chicago. ''If you have a priest that is pushing social justice, go find another parish. Go alert your bishop.''
 Religion scholars say the term ''social justice'' was probably coined in the 1800s, codified in encyclicals by successive popes and adopted widely by Protestant churches in the 1900s. The concept is that Christians should not merely give to the poor, but also work to correct unjust conditions that keep people poor. Many Christians consider it a recurring theme in Scripture. 
 Mr. Beck himself is a convert to Mormonism, a faith that identifies itself as part of the Christian family, but is nevertheless rejected by many Christians. 
 Philip Barlow, the Arrington professor of Mormon history and culture at Utah State University, said, ''One way to read the Book of Mormon is that it's a vast tract on social justice.'' 
 ''A lot of Latter-day Saints would think that Beck was asking them to leave their own church,'' he said.
 Mr. Barlow said that just this year, the church's highest authority, the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, issued a new ''Handbook of Instructions'' in which they revised the church's ''threefold mission'' and added a fourth mission statement: Care for the poor. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Glenn Beck urged Christians to leave churches that used what he called code words for Communism and Nazism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCAS JACKSON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (97%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (56%)

PERSON: GLENN BECK (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HOWARD STERN (54%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



286 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 754 words

BYLINE: By ANTONY CURRIE and CHRISTOPHER SWANN

 BODY:
Mortgage Bonds
 Make a Comeback
 The market for private-label mortgage bonds in the United States might be ready for revival. 
 The housing-induced credit crisis has shut it down for almost two years. But a handful of firms, independently of each other, are working on deals that could hit the market by June. Any new issue of mortgage bonds lacking guarantees from the government-run agencies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will need to be squeaky clean -- and the seller might lose money.
 The bonds in the works would probably be backed by jumbo mortgages, loans mostly bigger than about $730,000, depending on location, that Fannie and Freddie won't accept. If successful, it would be the first such deal since May 2008. 
 Buyers seem willing to consider moving away from standardized notes guaranteed by Freddie and Fannie, partly because those instruments now offer the lowest returns on record. Bonds backed by troubled loans from failed institutions that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation just sold were popular with investors. Admittedly, they came with a guarantee, but banks and other investors are starting to look for new places to invest.
 Prospective buyers of new jumbo mortgage-backed securities will want assurances the loans have all the proper documents and proof of income. They'll probably want borrowers to have put down as much as 40 percent of their own money. And they'll expect that, even if house prices have dropped since the mortgage was made, the average loan balance is still no more than, say, 60 percent of the property's value.
 What's more, any deal will have to be over-collateralized to withstand losses on the underlying mortgages of, say, at least 15 percent before investors in even the lowest-rated slug of bonds take any hit at all. New bonds might still need to be priced at a discount to entice buyers.
 That poses a problem for institutions working on the deals: under those conditions, they're likely to lose money. But the cost of reopening a key market could be worth it. While banks might not rush to securitize nonstandard mortgages right now, that should change as the market regains equilibrium. Those who pioneer its rehabilitation will be in line to help bring in future deals.
 Brazilian Oil
 A $5.6 billion stock offering by a firm with no profit evokes the Internet bubble era. But OSX Brasil is a chance for investors to bet on the country's growing reserves and Eike Batista, the fastest riser on the Forbes list of wealthy individuals. The combination makes it sound more Amazon than Pets.com, the poster child of the dot-com bust.
 A first glance at the company's financials gives reason for pause. It posted an operating loss of $19.6 million. But it hardly reflects the promise. Even if Brazil's oil reserves fail to justify the hype, there is still likely to be a need for OSX's ships and drilling rigs. Mr. Batista's oil and gas company, OGX, has a $4 billion budget to sink into exploration and production.
 The incestuous relationship should help OSX lock up future orders. OGX has yet to drill a dry well but may be sitting on resources of 6.7 billion barrels of oil and gas -- the equivalent of about three years of production at Exxon Mobil. The state-owned oil giant Petrobras has set aside about $30 billion to spend on drill ships and platforms. With the government giving preference to domestic suppliers, OSX can expect an inside track here too.
 Then there's Mr. Batista, just named the world's eighth-richest man. He hasn't disappointed investors yet. Of the four companies he has floated since mid-2006, three of them have been stock market stars, far outperforming Brazil's benchmark index. Even the one initial disappointment, the electric utility MPX Energia, was turned into an image-booster as Mr. Batista donated his 30 percent stake in nine power plants to compensate investors for the company's post-flotation slide.
 Mr. Batista has also shown a knack for timing. The June 2008 listing of OGX came just a month before oil hit its $147 peak. The sluggish global market for stock offerings makes his latest foray seem odd. But the optimism for Brazilian crude and his reputation as a golden-boy entrepreneur should be enough for investors worried about OSX's lack of profit to set aside any bad memories of online pet food that spring to mind, and reflect more on the river that runs through its home country. ANTONY CURRIE and CHRISTOPHER SWANN 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eike Batista was named the world's eighth-richest man by Forbes magazine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANTONIO LACERDA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRIVATE LABELS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); REAL ESTATE (79%); SECURITIZATION (79%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (79%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (79%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (79%); BOND ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (67%); STOCK OFFERINGS (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (59%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); OSX BRASIL SA (51%); IPET HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: OSXB3 (BOVESPA) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (51%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (51%)

PERSON: EIKE BATISTA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



287 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: S.& P. 500 Tiptoes Past Its Peak In January to Set 17-Month High

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A rally in financial stocks Thursday helped the market extend its gains for a third day.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index cleared an important hurdle watched by traders when it closed just above its January peak to set a 17-month high. That could bring some hesitant buyers into the market.
 Financial shares rose after Citigroup's chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, said the bank was on a path toward ''sustained profitability'' as it sold off risky assets. The bank has been the hardest hit by the financial crisis, so the upbeat assessment helped raise expectations about the economy. The stock rose 5.6 percent. 
 The climb in financial stocks helped offset concern about a spike in inflation in China. The country said its inflation rate rose to 2.7 percent in February, from 1.5 percent in January. A steep rise in prices could force China to raise interest rates. That, in turn, could slow one of the world's fastest-growing economies and put a damper on a global recovery.
 Jim Dunigan, managing executive of investments at PNC Wealth Management, said he expected that China would be able to contain prices for now.
 ''We'll see hints of inflation here and there, but I don't think we'll see that problem for a while,'' he said.
 In the United States, the Labor Department said the number of workers filing for jobless benefits fell by 6,000 last week, to 462,000. Economists were predicting a slightly bigger decline, according to Thomson Reuters.
 The report showed some improvement in the labor market but failed to indicate the increase in hiring that investors wanted to see. Stocks have traded in a narrow range since the Labor Department report on Friday. The market is looking for more signs of progress.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 44.51 points, or 0.42 percent, to 10,611.84. It is down 1.1 percent from its recent high on Jan. 19.
 The S.& P. 500 index advanced 4.63 points, or 0.40 percent, to 1,150.24, above its Jan. 19 close of 1,150.23. The index now stands at its highest level since Oct. 1, 2008.
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 9.51 points, also 0.40 percent, to 2,368.46 for its sixth consecutive advance.
 Bond prices were little changed. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 2/32, to 99 5/32, and the yield was unchanged at 3.73 percent. 
 The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices rose.
 Crude oil rose 2 cents to settle at $82.11 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 David Joy, chief market strategist at RiverSource Investments, said he was impressed that traders shrugged off the increase in China's inflation in a week with few economic reports. 
 ''The concept of an economic recovery is garnering a little more credibility,'' he said. ''We've arrived at a place where stocks are fairly valued.''
 The close above the January high by the S.& P. 500 index could give some of the investors sitting out of the market new incentive to pump money into stocks. The market slipped Monday and inched higher Tuesday and Wednesday. Volume has been light, a sign that traders have limited faith in the market's recent gains.
 Corporate deal-making continued. The oil company BP agreed to pay $7 billion to buy exploration rights from Devon Energy. BP will acquire rights to explore in Brazil, the Gulf of Mexico and the Caspian Sea.
 Increased mergers and acquisitions in recent weeks have been a welcome sign that corporate leaders believe the economy is getting stronger.
 Citigroup rose 22 cents, or 5.6 percent, to $4.18 a share. It was a year ago this week, on March 10, 2009, that the Dow and the S.& P. 500 index began to pull off of 1-year lows after Citigroup said it had been making money.
 Britain's FTSE 100 fell 0.4 percent, Germany's DAX index slipped 0.1 percent, and France's CAC-40 fell 0.4 percent. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); METALS MARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (63%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: VIKRAM PANDIT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



288 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Births to Minorities Approach a Majority

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
In the latest sign of the nation's shifting racial and ethnic composition, births to Asian, black and Hispanic women in the United States are on the verge of surpassing births to non-Hispanic whites. 
 Minorities accounted for 48 percent of all births in the nation in the 12 months that ended in July 2008. While it will most likely take years for health statisticians to confirm precisely when the 50 percent benchmark will have been reached, demographers said it could occur this year. Depending on variables like the recession, which has depressed birth rates, it will almost certainly happen within a year or two, they said.
 ''It looks like 'majority' births would drop below 50 percent around 2012,'' said Carl Haub, senior demographer for the Population Reference Bureau. 
 As recently as 1990, non-Hispanic whites accounted for almost two-thirds of births.
 The Census Bureau estimates that minorities will constitute a majority of the nation's overall population in about three decades and a majority of Americans under age 18 in about one decade. 
 Since 2000 alone, the proportion of people under age 20 who are non-Hispanic whites has dipped to 57 percent, from 61 percent. In 2008, Asian, black and Hispanic children made up 47 percent of the population under 5. 
 A study released this week by Professors Kenneth M. Johnson of the University of New Hampshire and Daniel Lichter of Cornell explored why younger Americans are at the forefront of racial and ethnic changes and what those changes augur, compared with a generation ago. 
 ''The social and economic realities of children had deteriorated, while the circumstances of the elderly had improved,'' they write in the journal Population and Development Review. ''Will America's older, largely white population -- through the ballot box and collective self-interest -- support young people who are now much different culturally from themselves and their own children? Will they vote, for example, to raise taxes for schools that serve young people of ethnic backgrounds different from theirs?''
 Even though immigration has declined from earlier projections, other variables are contributing to the racial and ethnic shift.
 Among them are a decline in the number of non-Hispanic white and even black children; white and Asian birthrates below the replacement level, which magnifies the impact of higher Hispanic birthrates and immigration; and declining numbers of non-Hispanic white women of child-bearing age (down 6 percent since 2000), while the number of Hispanic women in that category climbed 21 percent. There were about 10 Hispanic births in a recent year for each Hispanic death. 
 ''The big drop in white child-bearing age is probably only beginning to be fully felt in the number of white births, so they may drop more,'' said Professor Johnson, who is the senior demographer at New Hampshire's Carsey Institute. ''In contrast, the rapid rise in the number of minority women -- especially Hispanics -- is likely to push minority births up.'' 
 The vast majority of children in the three major minority groups are not immigrants, and the share of Hispanic children who were born abroad may have peaked. Still, only 39 percent of Hispanic children under 4 have two native-born parents. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (71%); CENSUS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); IMMIGRATION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (56%); UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



289 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; DANCE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: How Shall We Know Him? Through His Dances and More

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

 BODY:
Two books on the choreographer Paul Taylor are in preparation. One is a critical study by Angela Kane, whom the Paul Taylor Dance Company lists as its historian; the other is an authorized biography by Suzanne Carbonneau. Both of these scholars have followed Mr. Taylor's choreography for years, enjoying close access to him and his associates. It's fair to expect that their treatments will be sensitive, intelligent, responsible. 
 It's also fair to expect that they will reveal plenty that we didn't know. The current Taylor season at New York City Center ends on Sunday; it has offered a number of pieces so mysterious that I long for further disclosures. I like best of all getting to know Mr. Taylor's works by rewatching them in performance, but some are revived so seldom I don't have the chance. ''Runes'' (1975), which takes place with a moon hanging low above the horizon, is a startling series of primitive mysteries. On Wednesday night its women reminded my companion of the witches in ''Macbeth,'' and there are rumors that at the time of its creation Mr. Taylor was interested in the occult. When we know better what was in his mind, will ''Runes'' mean more or less? 
 ''Public Domain'' (1968) is set to a collage of sound fragments: where are they all from? The answers, which probably nobody could now provide anyway, could belong to a game of arcane trivia -- I know which Edith Evans audio recording of ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' is being used in the line about cucumber sandwiches, but is that Sybil Thorndike's Medea or another actress's? -- and yet they reveal much of Mr. Taylor's eclectic tastes. The movement, too, is a collage: the explanations of which bits constitute new or old choreography might well fill pages. 
 It often seems that as the bee sucks, so does Mr. Taylor draw sustenance from his music. But then the repertory keeps showing you moments when he steers clear of it. ''Public Domain'' is the main example of this in current repertory. ''Sunset'' (1983) is to Elgar, except in the middle, where it's to the calls of loons; and yet our main impression is of continuity. What happens is about male soldiers and women. The elegiac aspect of the Elgar operates on us like a film score, framing the action as if in tender memory. The poignant sound of the loons affects us another way: it's the call of need that nobody onstage is voicing. 
 The soldiers are so much closer to one another than they ever are to the women. Part of the immense pathos of ''Sunset'' is that the soldiers stay regimented even in relaxation: male bonding here is a deeper need than heterosexual dating. The women are sweethearts to the men, but also mothers, nurses, wives. They know, tend, love, protect these men, and then let them go; and remember them when they are gone. I don't view any of these men as homosexual, but I see why one friend refers to a male duet as this work's ''Brokeback Mountain'' moment; at some level, theirs is the most intimate click. Aren't there several ''Brokeback'' moments across the Taylor repertory? ''Brief Encounters'' (2009) has a duet for two men that briefly suggests the homoeroticism of two Eakins wrestlers. It's lightly done, and not clear how conscious the men are of what's going on between them. 
 To say what the sexual aspects of Mr. Taylor's work reveal about Mr. Taylor must be hard. Yet two tasks must be even harder for biographer or critical analyst: to address just how, on the one hand, music inspires him in some works and how, on the other, neither music nor anything else saves him in others. Nothing in dance writing is more elusive than trying to account for the successful response of choreography to music. You could study the dances Mr. Taylor has made to the music of Bach alone -- notably ''Esplanade'' (1975), ''Musical Offering'' (1986), ''Brandenburgs'' (1988), ''Cascade'' (1999), ''Promethean Fire'' (2002), all of which except ''Musical Offering'' and ''Promethean Fire'' have been in repertory this season -- and you would find a different musicality each time. The difference of response cannot be explained simply by the difference of the score. 
 After only a single viewing I find ''Dandelion Wine'' (2000) one of those embarrassed works in which Mr. Taylor seems to know how much more is going on in the music (by Locatelli) than he feels equipped to handle. Each of the score's three movements features an elaborately intense cadenza, which seems to have been part of his reason for choosing the music in the first place. Yet he flounders and finally clowns, while the music sweeps through its knots with a purposefulness he can't match. This is one of the most frontally focused works in his repertory, and the dancers' bright smiles look artificial. Worse are their mugging facial expressions when a cadenza ties them up. Well, all choreographers have lapses. But why does Mr. Taylor pointedly revive some of his? 
 It tells us plenty about Mr. Taylor that at the time of the 2009 premiere of ''Also Playing'' (then called ''Now Playing''), he said, in a public interview with Ms. Carbonneau, that his incentive came from the current economic climate and his awareness of how escapism had flourished in the popular entertainment of the Great Depression. Since this is a funny piece, it's refreshing to hear of the seriousness behind Mr. Taylor's humor. 
 What seriousness should we attach to his remark during the same interview about that work's Donizetti music, that ''Nobody would want to listen to it twice''? Since he dedicates the work ''to all vaudevillians, especially those who went on, no matter what,'' he is probably thinking of how any music can become stale or formulaic when you have to play it or perform to it night after night and year after year; and the undeniably formulaic aspects of Donizetti's ballet music are just what he needed here. But since Mr. Taylor is famous for wicked remarks, it's also reasonable to assume he meant a dig at Balanchine, whose ballet ''Donizetti Variations'' treats the same music as if it were mint-fresh. 
 How do you reconcile all these different facets of Mr. Taylor? It's good that there is more than one Taylor book in the pipeline; and I hope that their views will prove thoroughly unalike. It would be false to this choreographer if any one account of him became definitive. No choreographer has ever worked harder to be inexplicable. 
 Paul Taylor Dance Company continues through Sunday at City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan; (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Annmaria Mazzini and Michael Trusnovec of the Paul Taylor Dance Company in ''Runes'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); DANCE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HISTORY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



290 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Winter Games Yield Forecasting Insights

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -- The Winter Olympics and the coming Paralympic Games here have generally not been blessed with wintry weather. But an elaborate weather forecasting service that has been operating for nearly four years meant that the unwelcome conditions were not a surprise.
 Perhaps more important, the data gathered by forecasters for the Olympics, and the instruments used to record them, will ultimately be used to determine more than ski wax selections for skiers. The forecasting system is part of a United Nations-sponsored program to improve the accuracy and availability of short-term, winter storm forecasting, a field that has been overlooked. 
 Environment Canada, the government agency responsible for Olympic and everyday weather forecasts, recognized early on that its regular services would not be sufficient for the Games.
 ''A general public forecast might say: 'Cloudy with a 40 percent chance of showers today,' '' said Al Wallace, the agency's director of meteorological services for the region that includes British Columbia. ''But that's not good enough for guys trying to run a sports event.''
 The forecasting wish list for the Olympics and the Paralympics, which begin Friday, included detailed predictions for wind speed and direction, visibility at different altitudes, expected snow surface temperatures, specific air temperature trends and anticipated humidity variations.
 Delivering that information required up to 150 people, five temporary remote weather offices, the installation or upgrading of sensors at 60 weather stations, a dose of new technologies and, in some respects, a look back. 
 Trevor Smith, who coordinates the special forecasting through a NASA-style bank of oversized computer monitors at an office in downtown Vancouver, said that the first step was retraining the Olympic forecasters (three of whom are on loan from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the United States) in mountain weather forecasting theory. 
 Environment Canada also consulted extensively with the forecasters who worked on the Salt Lake and Turin Olympics.
 ''We learned from previous Olympics that it was critical to get the forecasters in there early to learn from the local weather patterns,'' Smith said.
 As those forecasters, three to a site, set up operations at the five outdoor sports locations, their forecasting was aided by a technological development. These were the first Winter Games where the sites were blanketed by high-speed wireless signals. That communication link made it economically possible to blanket the ski slopes and sliding track with an array of sensors that report back at intervals as brief as a minute. One sensor rode up and down Whistler's downhill ski slopes on the roof of a gondola to provide a stream of temperature readings from various elevations.
 During the Olympics, ski jumping proved to be the greatest challenge for forecasters. The two jumps were located in a valley with generally light winds, but the direction of the wind, even if it was a tepid breeze, was a critical factor. If it switched from a tailwind to a headwind, for example, the competition was paused to avoid putting the later jumpers at a disadvantage.
 Microforecasting subtle variations in wind direction, Smith said, made that site's meteorologists more scientists than forecasters. And traditional wind measurement devices with their familiar spinning propellers were not up to the task. The site instead relied on more accurate anemometers that judge wind speed by detecting its sonic patterns.
 Other instruments, like radar used for wind profiling and to detect precipitation, were adjusted to measure activity over areas encompassing hundreds of yards rather than miles.
 While two Summer Games have been used for special projects by the World Meteorological Organization, a United Nations agency, these were the first Winter Games it has studied. 
 George Isaac, the Environment Canada scientist who sold the idea of using the Olympics as a case study to governments and researchers in several countries including the United States, said that the hope was to improve ''now casting'' of rapidly developing storms or dangerous winter weather conditions. Such forecasts, which cover from an immediate time period out six hours, have been used to track the development of summer storms like tornados for many years. But Isaac said that there was little similar science for winter conditions.
 ''If you look at the globe, there are more scientists in warm countries,'' he said. ''Even in the U.S. they focus on summer, not winter.''
 Because the Paralympics use fewer outdoor sites, only two of the field weather offices remain open.
 As Vancouver winds down, Sochi, Russia, the host of the 2014 Winter Games, is gearing up. A team of Russian meteorologists has been visiting the Vancouver operation to form its plans. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mark Torgerson, a technical service manager, preparing to launch a weather balloon during the Winter Olympics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (94%); WINTER OLYMPICS (92%); WINTER SPORTS (92%); WEATHER (90%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (90%); SKIING (90%); METEOROLOGY (78%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); WEATHER SENSORS (78%); MOUNTAINS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TRENDS (74%); WAXES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (93%); TURIN, ITALY (78%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ITALY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



291 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Merlin Olsen, 69, Hall of Famer, Commentator and Actor, Is Dead

BYLINE: By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN

 BODY:
Merlin Olsen, the Hall of Fame tackle who anchored the Los Angeles Rams' Fearsome Foursome, the line that glamorized defensive play in the National Football League, died early Thursday at a hospital in Duarte, Calif. He was 69.
 His death was announced by his brother Orrin, who said he had been treated for mesothelioma, a rare form of cancer involving a membrane that covers and protects most of the body's internal organs. Until his hospitalization he had lived in Park City, Utah.
 Olsen was considered one of the greatest tackles in N.F.L. history, but he also forged careers in broadcasting and acting. He was a longtime color commentator for NBC's pro football and Rose Bowl telecasts, working with Dick Enberg, and he acted on television, most prominently in NBC's ''Little House on the Prairie'' and in his own series, ''Father Murphy.''
 In the early 1950s, the Rams boasted a high-powered offense, led by quarterbacks Norm Van Brocklin and Bob Waterfield and receivers Tom Fears and Crazy Legs Hirsch. The Rams of the mid-1960s were renowned for defensive linemen who earned a collective nickname a decade before the Pittsburgh Steelers' Steel Curtain. 
 The Rams had only one winning season from 1963 to 1966, the span in which all four Fearsome players were teammates, but those linemen were celebrated for their strength, flair, know-how and agility.
 Olsen, 6 feet 5 inches and 270 pounds or so, played left tackle, jamming up the middle, stopping draw plays and screen passes and often pressuring the quarterback. Deacon Jones, another eventual Hall of Famer, extremely quick and adept at the head slap, lined up at left end. Jones joined with Lamar Lundy, the right end, in rolling up the sacks while Roosevelt Grier, the former Giants star, was a formidable presence at right tackle.
 ''Merlin had superhuman strength,'' Jones told The Los Angeles Times in 1985. ''If I was beating my man inside, he'd hold him up and free me to make the tackle. If he had to make an adjustment to sacrifice his life and limb, he would make it. A lot of the plays I made were because he or the others would make the sacrifice.''
 Olsen felt that the Fearsome Foursome could have excelled in any era.
 ''What made the Foursome unique, I think, is that we could have fit in extremely comfortably in the modern game,'' he told The Orange County Register in 1997. He estimated that the line's average weight was 275 pounds and said that ''there was not a weight lifter in the group.''
 ''Imagine how big we'd be today,'' he added.
 ''We could all run,'' Olsen said. ''The other thing we had going for us was a rare chemistry. There was also a very special kind of unselfishness.''
 Joining the Rams in 1962 from Utah State University, where he won the Outland Trophy as college football's best interior lineman, Olsen spent his entire 15-year career with Los Angeles. 
 Olsen was voted to the Pro Bowl every year except for his final season, he was an all-N.F.L. selection six times, and he was chosen by the Maxwell Club of Philadelphia as the N.F.L.'s most valuable player in 1974. He was voted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 1980 and the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1982. He was named, along with Jones, to the 75th anniversary all-N.F.L. team in 1994 in a vote by the news media and league personnel.
 Olsen may have exuded a fearsome presence in his own right, but he was hardly a brute. He was named one of the nation's top scholar athletes by the National Football Foundation in his senior year at Utah State and he received a master's degree in economics while playing for the Rams.
 Merlin Jay Olsen, a native of Logan, Utah, was born on Sept. 15, 1940. He was so awkward while pursuing sports in the ninth grade that a coach discouraged him from athletic aspirations.
 ''I was either stubborn or foolish, but I was unwilling to give up on my dreams,'' The South Bend Tribune quoted him as telling a College Football Hall of Fame luncheon in 2007.
 Olsen played a major role in reviving the football program at Utah State, leading the Aggies to appearances in the Sun Bowl and the Gotham Bowl. He was one of the Rams' two first-round draft picks in 1962, going third over all after they drafted quarterback Roman Gabriel. 
 Olsen was the N.F.L.'s rookie of the year on a team that won only one game. The Rams began a turnaround in 1966, when George Allen became the head coach, but Olsen never reached the Super Bowl.
 In February 1977, shortly after retiring, Olsen signed a contract with NBC. In addition to working alongside Enberg in the broadcast booth, he appeared for several seasons with Michael Landon in ''Little House on the Prairie'' as the very large and bearded lumberman Jonathan Garvey.
 From 1981 to 1983 he had the title role in NBC's ''Father Murphy,'' in which he played an 1870s frontiersman who disguises himself as a priest to shelter orphans. In the short-lived ''Fathers and Sons'' he played a baseball coach, and in ''Aaron's Way,'' a 1988 series, he was the head of an Amish family that leaves its traditional lifestyle behind and moves to California.
 ''I was raised in a very strict Mormon home and in a Mormon community,'' The Post-Standard of Syracuse quoted him as saying when he took the role of the Amish patriarch Aaron Miller. ''There are certain things I can lean back on and remember in a family situation that helped me to work as an actor.''
 Olsen also had roles in television movies, made numerous guest appearances in a variety of TV series and was a familiar figure in commercials as a spokesman for FTD florists.
 Utah State brought an ailing Olsen back to the campus for a halftime ceremony of a basketball game in December 2009, when the university announced it would dedicate the football field at its Romney Stadium as Merlin Olsen Field in 2010. The St. Louis Rams -- the Los Angeles Rams' successor franchise -- honored Olsen at a home game that month, although he was unable to attend because of his illness.
 Olsen was one of three brothers who played in the N.F.L. Phil Olsen was a teammate, playing defensive tackle for the Rams from 1971 to 1974 and later playing for the Denver Broncos. Orrin Olsen played center for the Kansas City Chiefs.
 In addition to Phil and Orrin, Olsen is survived by his wife, Susan; their children Nathan, Jill and Kelly; his brother Clark; his sisters Colleen, Lorraine, Gwen, Winona and Ramona; and several grandchildren. 
 Olsen overpowered many an offensive lineman, but he had something of a mild-mannered outlook.
 ''I'm sure that I take out many of my personal aggressions on the field, but I don't play football for that reason,'' he remarked in the N.F.L.'s ''The First 50 Years: The Story of the National Football League.''
 ''My roughness and aggressiveness at certain times are prompted by my desire to be a better football player. I don't enjoy contact.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After his playing career ended, Merlin Olsen appeared on ''Little House on the Prairie.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 The Fearsome Foursome, from left, Lamar Lundy, Merlin Olsen, Roosevelt Grier, Deacon Jones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NFL PHOTOS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS (91%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); ATHLETES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (71%); LUNG CANCER (71%); MESOTHELIOMA (71%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (84%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS RAMS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); PITTSBURGH STEELERS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



292 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: After Years of Controversy, Ceremonial Shovels Come Out

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
Inside a tent in the Prospect Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn on Thursday afternoon, the mayor and the governor mingled with celebrities and titans of business, nibbling knishes served in martini glasses, to celebrate the long-delayed groundbreaking of the basketball arena that will be the cornerstone of the Atlantic Yards project. 
 ''Today's a great day for Brooklyn, and for the soul of Brooklyn as well, which is very much alive,'' declared Marty Markowitz, the borough president and a prime cheerleader for the project. 
 Maybe 100 feet away on Atlantic Avenue, protesters who had caused the years of delay hooted and whistled loud enough to be heard inside, holding signs that showed saddened brownstones and wearing masks depicting prominent New York politicians, including many who sat on the dais inside the tent. A fake Marty Markowitz earlier read a fake proclamation declaring March 11, 2010, the Destruction of Brooklyn's Soul Day. 
 And so two factions that have spent the past several years warring in court, at public meetings and on neighborhood streets over the future of development in Brooklyn marked the day as if in parallel worlds. Between them sat 70 shiny shovels and a mound of dirt, the symbolic beginnings of the 18,000-seat Barclays Center, the new home of the New Jersey Nets. The arena, which will bring Brooklyn its first major sports team since the Dodgers left in 1957, is scheduled to open in 2012.
 ''As the buildings rise on Atlantic Yards, the joblessness rate will fall here in Brooklyn,'' declared Gov. David A. Paterson, noting Brooklyn's 11.2 percent unemployment rate, higher than the state or national rates. ''This project at Atlantic Yards will yield 16,000 union construction jobs and 5,500 permanent jobs right here on the site.'' 
 Mr. Paterson nodded to the echoes of the protest outside, saying: ''We have recognized that there was strong opposition that was based on merit, that was based on equity, and that was real for this project, and we respect that. But the economic development opportunities are undeniable.'' 
 The $4.9 billion project, developed by the firm Forest City Ratner, will drastically alter one of Brooklyn's busiest intersections. In the blocks surrounding Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues, 16 towers will provide as many as 6,430 apartments, with more than 2,250 of them set aside for low- and moderate-income renters, according to the developer. 
 The years of legal challenges and other setbacks that preceded the groundbreaking included the scrapping of the original design for the project, by the architect Frank Gehry, and the downturn in the economy, which scared off investors for real estate. 
 But in the last year, Atlantic Yards won several victories in court, the latest on March 1, when a State Supreme Court justice rejected a challenge by local property owners to the state's use of eminent domain at the site. A Russian billionaire, Mikhail D. Prokhorov, agreed to buy an 80 percent share of the Nets and a 45 percent stake in the arena. And construction on parts of the project began last fall. 
 At the ceremony, Bruce C. Ratner, the chairman of Forest City Ratner, thanked more than 150 lawyers who had worked on the project. (Forest City Ratner was a partner in the development of The New York Times headquarters.)
 Daniel Goldstein, a spokesman for Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, the main community group that has fought the Atlantic Yards, pointed out that there was still one lawsuit pending. But on Thursday, he and other protesters were left to make their case in satire.
 Standing under the faded green awning of Freddy's Bar and Back Room, which sits on the project site and is scheduled for demolition, protesters wore masks of Mr. Markowitz, Mr. Paterson, Mr. Ratner and others whom they see as complicit in advancing Atlantic Yards.
 Poking fun at Mr. Markowitz's penchant for official proclamations, his doppelganger read from an imagined scroll. ''Whereas, Brooklyn's cherished traditions of fairness and respect for all are deemed moot and quaint,'' the pretend borough president read. 
 At one point, protesters wandered into traffic on Atlantic Avenue. The police went to corral them back to the sidewalk. One man was arrested for disorderly conduct.
 For years, Atlantic Yards debates divided Brooklyn's political class and had surfaced as an issue during election campaigns, but on Thursday, no elected officials joined the protesters. And inside the tent, many of Brooklyn's leading politicians were nowhere to be found. 
 It fell to the Rev. Herbert Daughtry, an ardent supporter of the 22-acre project, to call for reconciliation and warn against ignoring the opposition and breaking promises on housing and jobs. ''When we reject the least, we will not enjoy the fruit of our labor,'' he said to those inside the tent. ''Generations yet unborn will rise up and curse this project.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters on Thursday outside the ceremonial groundbreaking for the Brooklyn arena, to be finished in 2012, where the New Jersey Nets are to play. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Officials portrayed the Atlantic Yards project, which will include 16 apartment towers, as a potent stimulus to the lagging economy of Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BASKETBALL (77%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); SPORTS (65%); SPORTS & RECREATION (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (63%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (82%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



293 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'CHILDREN OF INVENTION'; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: That American Dream: Scheme and Scramble

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
Restraint proves a virtue of -- and a shrewd if necessary choice for -- ''Children of Invention,'' a modestly scaled, quietly effective independent movie about a struggling single mother and her two children. Directed and written by Tze Chun, making a fine feature debut, the movie offers both a familiar tale of immigrant striving and a topical look at what it means to be working and poor in America while hanging onto a badly frayed thread. Yet while the politics are there, you might be too busy choking back tears to notice. 
 Set mainly in suburban Boston, in a present tense that feels as immediate as last week, the movie tracks the steady, seemingly inexorable downward spiral of Elaine Cheng (Cindy Cheung), a single mom eking out a near-sustenance existence. When she's not trying (and apparently failing) to sell real estate, Elaine spends a lot of energy chasing after dubious-sounding networking prospects, the kind that promise riches in exchange for peddling lotions and paying a hefty fee to the company. Although she looks solidly middle class, with her heels and business casuals, Elaine has stumbled badly, as the sheriff who serves eviction papers soon proves. Forced out, the family stumbles even further. 
 Taking advantage of a real estate contact, Elaine and her children -- a solemn-faced Raymond (Michael Chen, then 10), and Tina (Crystal Chiu, then 8) -- move into a condo in a vacant building. It's a model apartment, just for show, with no character and a fake phone: a poignant way station for a dislocated family. The condo, like many of the movie's low-key details, feels just right. Mr. Chun, who himself grew up outside Boston, was the child of a scrambling immigrant single mom who sold stuff like Herbalife, which probably helps account for the movie's realistic texture, from the condo's bleak anonymity to the shabby chaos that nearly engulfs the family's two nearby relatives, neither of whom can be counted on for help.
 At the same time, to pin too much of what makes this movie work on the autobiographical would give short shrift to Mr. Chun, who makes the most of his obviously limited economic resources with confidence and talent. Working with his cinematographer, Chris Teague, and shooting in high-definition digital that tends to look like lower-end HD, meaning a touch cold, thin and gray, Mr. Chun doesn't fuss up his visuals. He doesn't prettify poverty or bathe his characters in a celestial light as if they needed to be consecrated because of their difficulties, as can be the case when filmmakers get their hands on the poor. (The Sundance Film Festival, where ''Children of Invention'' first played in 2009, is sometimes filled with such beautiful suffering.) 
 As Elaine pushes along the simple, streamlined story -- she becomes increasingly distracted by a suspicious business venture -- a distance opens between her and the children that becomes more and more unsettling. The muted, understated performances from the two children (in their screen debuts) creep up on you, and without any of the cutesy mannerisms and overflowing saucer eyes that can turn a child actor into the equivalent of a cheap narrative shot. Although in broad outline ''Children of Invention'' recalls ''Nobody Knows,'' a classic of art-house sadism from the Japanese filmmaker Hirokazu Kore-eda, about a mother who abandons her children, the world that Mr. Chun creates is less cruel, more ordinary, plausible and temperate. 
 The title ''Children of Invention,'' of course, echoes the expression the mother of invention, a somewhat pitiful description for Elaine as she frantically grabs at a dream as elusive as smoke. (Ms. Cheung's astringent turn solicits empathy and exasperation.) But the title also refers to the charming gadgets that Raymond creates, like the mechanized spaghetti fork. Using odds and ends that he and Tina buy, Raymond builds little inventions that speak to his ingenuity and, every so often, to something deeper and more desperate. From one angle he looks like a pint-size Thomas Edison seized by the spirit of American enterprise. From another, he looks like a child of painfully recognizable hard times. 
 CHILDREN OF INVENTION
 Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles. 
 Written and directed by Tze Chun; director of photography, Chris Teague; edited by Anna Boden; music by T. Griffin; art director, Ashley Wellbrock; costumes by Jennifer Behar; produced by Mynette Louie and Trevor Sagan. In Manhattan at the Big Manhattan, 239 East 59th Street, between Second and Third Avenues. Running time: 1 hour 26 minutes. This film is not rated. 
 WITH: Cindy Cheung (Elaine Cheng), Michael Chen (Raymond Cheng) and Crystal Chiu (Tina Cheng). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Crystal Chiu and Michael Chen in ''Children of Invention.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS TEAGUE/THE KIDS ARE ALRIGHT PRODUCTIONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); FILM (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (68%); EVICTION (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (62%); SHERIFFS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Children of Invention (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



294 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 330 words

HEADLINE: State Regulators Shut Down A City Bank, LibertyPointe

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
State banking regulators on Thursday evening shut down the troubled LibertyPointe Bank, whose chairman, Shaya Boymelgreen, built more than 2,400 apartments in New York City in the last decade. The failure was the 27th in the nation this year but the first in the city in more than a decade, regulators said. 
 LibertyPointe, which had one branch in Manhattan and two in Brooklyn, had been struggling under the weight of bad real estate loans for many months. In mid-July, federal regulators ordered the bank to stop lending to developers and to raise cash.
 But time ran out for LibertyPointe on Thursday. State regulators seized the bank and turned it over to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which struck a deal with Valley National Bank. Valley National will assume LibertyPointe's deposits, which totaled about $210 million, and about one-tenth of its outstanding loans.
 Valley National, which is based in Wayne, N.J., agreed to share losses on the rest of LibertyPointe's loan portfolio with the F.D.I.C., regulators said. The F.D.I.C. estimated that the rescue would cost its insurance fund $24.8 million.
 Gerald H. Lipkin, the chairman and chief executive of Valley National, said in a statement that the three branches would reopen Friday morning as part of Valley National's 201-branch network. LibertyPointe's depositors will be treated as customers of Valley National. ''Our primary focus is to assure customers that their deposits are safe and remain readily accessible to them,'' Mr. Lipkin said. 
 The recession has caused a wave of bank failures across the country, but only one bank failed in New York State in the last five years. The State Banking Department closed Waterford Village Bank, based in Williamsville, near Buffalo, in July. The last failure of a New York City-based bank occurred in December 1999, when regulators closed Golden City Commercial Bank, a small bank that had an office in Flushing, Queens, and one on Lower Broadway in Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



295 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: After Tearing Down Roster, Indians Try to Rebuild

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

 BODY:
GOODYEAR, Ariz. -- The last World Series began with a special kind of misery for fans in Cleveland. The starting pitchers, C. C. Sabathia and Cliff Lee, had been teammates on the Indians just 16 months earlier. Each won an American League Cy Young Award, only to be traded in the swift overhaul of a team that had nearly won a pennant.
 General Manager Mark Shapiro, who will become the Indians' president after this season, had a different reaction to the World Series matchup. In Shapiro's words, it was kind of neat. He was happy for Sabathia and Lee, whom the Indians had nurtured for years. 
 ''The decision never was: do you want C. C. Sabathia?'' Shapiro said. ''The decision never was: do you want Cliff Lee? It was: how do you find a way to build a championship team? Those things were exclusive from each other. They didn't fit together. Having those guys would not have allowed us to put players around them and would have forced other decisions. I didn't really look at it as an option.''
 There are other reminders of the Indians' recent past. The framed photo that faces the entrance to their clubhouse here shows four players celebrating a 2007 division series triumph over the Yankees. As a caption notes, it was the final postseason game played at the old Yankee Stadium.
 The Indians' joyride continued in the A.L. Championship Series, where they took a three-games-to-one lead over the Boston Red Sox. But the Indians lost the next three games by a combined score of 30-5, and they finished last season tied with the Kansas City Royals for last place in the A.L. Central at 65-97.
 ''That's one of the reasons they probably put it there, to remind us what it was like and try to get that mind-set of getting back there,'' starter Jake Westbrook said. ''I would hope everybody's goal would be to get to the playoffs and have a chance to get to the World Series, like we had then. That's definitely something I think about, and that's why it was so disappointing in '07. You never know when you might have that opportunity again.''
 It is unlikely to happen for a while, after a two-year purge that included Sabathia, Lee, catcher Victor Martinez, third baseman Casey Blake, first baseman Ryan Garko and reliever Rafael Betancourt. Some of those who remain -- including outfielder Grady Sizemore, designated hitter Travis Hafner, and starters Fausto Carmona and Westbrook -- have been injured or unproductive.
 For the Indians' new manager, Manny Acta, a decimated roster is all relative. Acta came from the lowly Washington Nationals, and he said the Indians had many more pieces in place -- at least five or six legitimate everyday players. The A.L. Central is relatively balanced, Acta added, and some of his pitchers have decent track records.
 Shapiro, who fired Eric Wedge as manager after seven seasons, said Acta, who is from the Dominican Republic, would help the organization relate better to Spanish-speaking players. He also cited Acta's positive outlook.
 ''That's the way I am,'' Acta said. ''I prefer to be a glass-half-full type of guy. Life is about attitude, and my attitude is a positive one. I think here in Cleveland, obviously fans are not happy with what's gone on the last few years, and the fact that this team hasn't won since 1948.''
 The Indians have come close, winning five division titles and two pennants at the end of the 1990s. The team sold out 455 games in a row and carried a payroll among the top five in the major leagues, buoyed by a confluence of factors that will never be repeated.
 The Indians were contending for the first time in decades. The economy was strong, and the ballpark was new. The Browns left town, and the Cavaliers were boring. 
 ''And on top of all of that, maybe the biggest unwritten component, the entire industry was coming off a strike,'' Shapiro said. ''They were all depressed, and we were in a bubble, sealed off from that. Our fans were excited.''
 The excitement has faded. The Indians' payroll will be below $70 million this season, ranking among the bottom few teams in the majors. The Indians averaged 21,805 fans a game last season, ranking 26th of 30 teams. It was a drop of about 5,000 fans from the year before and the Indians' lowest figure since 2003.
 That was the season after the Indians' last major housecleaning. In June 2002, less than half a season after winning a division title, Shapiro traded the ace starter Bartolo Colon to the Montreal Expos for three future stars: Sizemore, Lee and Brandon Phillips. Another trade that year, of catcher Einar Diaz, brought Hafner from the Texas Rangers.
 Now the Indians are rebuilding again, with prospects like starter Justin Masterson, first baseman Matt LaPorta and catcher Carlos Santana, all acquired in trades the last two seasons.
 ''What we try to do is to aggressively manage the cycles,'' Shapiro said. ''Take that as the underlying premise, that cycles, as our market has evolved, are a given. It's not New York, it's not Boston; there aren't the resources to artificially go through the cycles. We're going to have them. What you're trying to avoid is what's occurred in similar markets, where you go into the down cycle and you're unable to get out.''
 Examples abound. The Pittsburgh Pirates have had 17 consecutive losing seasons, a major league record. The Baltimore Orioles have had 12, the Cincinnati Reds 9, the Royals 6.
 The Indians have issues this season, especially in their rotation. Their starters are Westbrook, who is coming off elbow surgery; Masterson, who went 1-7 for the Indians last season; and Carmona, who has a 5.89 earned run average since beating the Yankees in the 2007 playoffs. The other two spots are open.
 At least the Indians have experience in building a winner after tearing one down, and the new players recognize the master plan. Without the results to show it, they have to believe in the front office.
 ''They've been there, and they know how to win,'' LaPorta said. ''They know the talent they need on the field, and I think they're putting those pieces together right now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Manny Acta, center, the Indians' new manager, said, ''Life is about attitude, and my attitude is a positive one.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK DUNCAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND INDIANS (94%); NEW YORK YANKEES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (54%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (53%) ARIZONA, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (54%); MISSOURI, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



296 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Ukraine's President Forms A Coalition in Parliament

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- The new Ukrainian president, Viktor F. Yanukovich, put together a coalition in Parliament on Thursday, allowing him to consolidate control over the government and avoid new elections that could have created renewed political instability. 
 Mr. Yanukovich, who was narrowly elected last month, won the support of several members of other political parties, gaining 235 of 450 seats. After weeks of speculation that he might face a lengthy battle in Parliament, he formed the coalition relatively quickly. His success suggested that, at least for now, some politicians are coalescing around his leadership, though Parliament remains volatile.
 Mr. Yanukovich installed a close adviser, Mykola Azarov, as prime minister, seeking to prevent the kind of infighting that caused problems for his predecessor, Viktor A. Yushchenko.
 Mr. Yanukovich hailed the new coalition, saying that it would help the country ''return to the path of development and progress.''
 Mr. Azarov filled senior cabinet spots with experienced figures, including Kostyantyn Gryshchenko as foreign minister. Mr. Gryshchenko, currently ambassador to Russia, had served earlier as foreign minister, and was ambassador to the United States. He is well respected in the West.
 Sergey Tigipko, who came in third in the presidential election and is considered a rising political star, was appointed a deputy prime minister.
 The new coalition and appointments may help calm concerns in the West that the contested presidential election would touch off more turmoil in Ukraine. The country has been hard hit by the financial crisis, and must resume talks with the International Monetary Fund, which has suspended a $16.4 billion bailout package.
 On the sidelines on Thursday was Mr. Yanukovich's opponent in the presidential election, Yulia V. Tymoshenko, who was ousted as prime minister last week. Mr. Yushchenko appointed Ms. Tymoshenko, but she feuded with him, though they led the movement that took power after the Orange Revolution of 2004.
 Ms. Tymoshenko, who lost the election by 3.5 percentage points, refused to attend Mr. Yanukovich's inauguration, saying that his victory was tainted by fraud. She had tried to challenge it in court but withdrew her case after it seemed that she would lose. European election monitors said the Feb. 7 election was generally honest and fair.
 Mr. Yanukovich's political party, the Party of Regions, has the largest bloc of votes in Parliament, but not enough to form a coalition. In order to ease the process, it pushed through a law allowing individual lawmakers to break away from their parliamentary factions. 
 Prime Minister Azarov does not seem to have political ambitions of his own, having served in senior financial positions in the government. He was born in Russia and is believed to speak poor Ukrainian, preferring Russian.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); ELECTION MONITORING (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (79%); YULIA TYMOSHENKO (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) UKRAINE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



297 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Tentative Deal Gives New Life to Overhaul of Student Loans

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and TAMAR LEWIN; David M. Herszenhorn reported from Washington, and Tamar Lewin from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Democratic Congressional leaders struck a tentative agreement on Thursday that breathes new life into President Obama's proposed overhaul of federal student loan programs.
 The deal would bundle the bill into an expedited budget package along with the Democratic health care legislation, which would allow for both measures to be passed by the Senate on a simple majority vote. Without the deal, the student loan bill would have been unlikely to pass because it lacked the 60 votes needed to overcome a filibuster. 
 The bill would end government payments to private, commercial student lenders, leaving the government to lend directly to students. It would also redirect billions of dollars to expand the Pell grant program for low-income students, and to pay for other education initiatives. 
 The maximum Pell grant is set to rise to $5,550 for the 2010-11 school year and, under the deal struck Thursday, would increase automatically each year in line with inflation. As many as eight million of the nation's lowest-income students receive Pell grants to help pay for college each year. Under current law, Congress must determine any increases.
 ''Families and students who rely on federal student aid need to know that Congress sides with them and not with the big banks,'' Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa and chairman of the Education Committee, said at a news conference on Thursday. ''The federal government has been subsidizing these banks and wasting taxpayer money for far too long. It's time to end it.'' 
 Private banks had lobbied fiercely against the bill, which would cut off a longtime stream of revenue. Even on Thursday, lobbyists for the private lenders made a last-ditch effort to stop Democrats from adding it to the budget package.
 House Democrats predicted that packaging the two proposals in an expedited budget reconciliation bill would help them secure the needed votes on health care because the financial aid bill is popular. In September, the House adopted that bill, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, by a vote of 253 to 171. 
 Senate Democrats said that they could lose some votes as a result of the packaging, but that they did not believe it would swing the outcome. Senate Democrats nominally control 59 votes, and need only 50 to approve the reconciliation measure, because Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. would break a tie. 
 Some Democrats in the Senate, where the private student loan industry has strong allies, had resisted tying the two bills together. But federal education officials warned on Thursday that if Congress failed to act, millions of students might see their Pell grants cut by 60 percent. 
 Democrats said that in a caucus meeting Thursday, Mr. Harkin made a compelling case for moving more quickly on the education measure and that other senators had voiced agreement, outweighing doubts raised in particular by Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the chairman of the Budget Committee. 
 Aides to Mr. Conrad said he was open to packaging the two bills, provided that House Democrats agreed to meet budget reconciliation rules by adjusting the education measure to account for a revised cost analysis by the Congressional Budget Office. 
 The House-passed bill had anticipated savings of $87 billion by eliminating payments to private lenders, and would have redirected that money to Pell grants and other education programs. 
 But in recent months, more colleges have joined the government's direct lending program, in anticipation of the change, generating the savings up front and reducing the amount of revenue that would be available for new spending to about $67 billion. 
 ''The Treasury is winning every day that somebody takes out a direct loan,'' said Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the Education and Labor Committee. ''The concept is already driving savings to the government.''
 At the same time, a rise in the number of people attending college and seeking aid in the weak economy has raised the projected cost of new Pell grants to $54 billion from $40 billion. 
 Officials said they could reduce the spending in the education bill by tying annual increases in Pell grants to the consumer price index, a measure of inflation, rather than to the consumer price index plus 1 percent, as set forth in the House bill. 
 Mr. Harkin and Mr. Miller said on Thursday that if the financial aid measure was not tied to health care, it might collapse. 
 Six Democrat senators had written a letter to the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, expressing doubts about the education proposal. And given Republican opposition, the bill was unlikely to win the 60 votes needed to overcome a filibuster. 
 The decision by Democrats to package the two bills creates tough choices for some lawmakers. Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, for instance, has reason to vote for the health care bill in part to undo a special provision that Senate leaders included giving Nebraska extra federal Medicaid money. 
 That provision, derided by Republicans as the ''Cornhusker kickback,'' has become a political liability for Mr. Nelson. But Nebraska is also home to some major private student lenders, and he will be hard-pressed to vote in favor of a package that ends their lucrative business originating federal student loans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); US OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); POOR POPULATION (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: TOM HARKIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); KENT CONRAD (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



298 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Board Extends Deadline For Everglades Land Deal

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
OKEECHOBEE, Fla. -- Facing legal challenges and growing deficits, South Florida water officials on Thursday gave themselves six more months to finance a controversial $536 million purchase of land from United States Sugar for the Everglades. 
 The unanimous vote by the nine-member board of the South Florida Water Management District will keep the deal alive, but officials said they continued to struggle with whether the agency could afford it. 
 ''From an economic point of view, these are unpleasant times,'' said Charles Dauray, a board member from southwest Florida. ''And from an environmental point of view, these are very unique opportunities.'' 
 Cost has been the main challenge ever since Gov. Charlie Crist unveiled a proposed $1.75 billion purchase of United States Sugar in its entirety almost two years ago. The deal has been downsized twice since then. It now includes 72,800 acres, plus an option to buy the company's remaining 107,000 acres at a later date. 
 But even as the total cost has been reduced, the price has come under greater scrutiny.
 Independent appraisers have said that the district is paying United States Sugar at least twice the going rate for agricultural land. (The Florida Supreme Court will hear arguments next month in lawsuits questioning the public purpose of the expense.) 
 At the same time, district revenues from property taxes in the 16 counties that support the agency have dropped from a peak of $553 million in 2007 to $460 million this year, with further decreases expected, according to district projections. 
 The proposed acquisition has already led to the suspension of more than a dozen restoration projects, internal district documents show, and more cuts would be necessary. 
 An auditor warned last month that without ''significant decreases'' in the district's budget, the acquisition would lead to deficits of $89 million in 2011 and $110 million in 2012. 
 Board members said Thursday that they were increasingly aware of the financial challenges posed by the purchase. They repeatedly questioned district lawyers about a line in the contract relating to a $5 million penalty for abandoning the deal if they determine the agency cannot afford it without harming core operations, like flood control. 
 But they also said they hoped to complete the acquisition because it holds enormous potential for the Everglades and for estuaries on the east and west coasts of Florida that have been damaged by polluted water that could be stored and treated on land bought from United States Sugar. 
 Governor Crist, who appoints the board, strongly supports the deal, and environmentalists wearing stickers that said ''seal the deal'' clapped when the members agreed to delay the deadline for financing. 
 ''It needs to be extended,'' said Eric Buermann, the chairman. ''Otherwise, we're sort of at the end of the story.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Charlie Crist proposed the Everglades deal in 2008. It has been downsized twice. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); WATER QUALITY (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); LITIGATION (65%); WATER POLLUTION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA SUPREME COURT (55%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



299 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Obama Outlines Drive To Raise U.S. Exports

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ; Sewell Chan contributed reporting.

 BODY:
President Obama on Thursday announced a broad effort to promote American goods overseas, hoping to bolster competitiveness abroad and create jobs in the United States.
 But trade specialists questioned whether the plan had the potential to double exports in five years and create two million jobs -- the president's goal -- saying the major challenge would be to overcome stiff trade barriers and create new markets. 
 Mr. Obama framed his plan as a means of jump-starting the sluggish economy. He called for increasing credit for small- and medium-sized businesses by $2 billion, easing restrictions on selling certain goods abroad, and the establishment of a cabinet-level panel on exports. 
 ''In a time when millions of Americans are out of work, boosting our exports is a short-term imperative,'' Mr. Obama said at a conference of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. ''The world's fastest-growing markets are outside our borders. We need to compete for those customers because other nations are competing for them.''
 Economists pointed to several hurdles that must be overcome, including undervalued currencies in some countries and an abundance of tariffs and protectionist pressures. United States exporters also face tough price competition, as American goods are often more expensive because production costs are higher.
 On Thursday, the Commerce Department said the trade deficit narrowed by 6.6 percent in January, to $37.3 billion.
 Imports fell 1.7 percent as Americans imported the lowest monthly quantity of oil in more than a decade. Exports declined by 0.3 percent. It was the first drop since April, as demand for products like aircraft and cars dwindled.
 As policy makers seek to curb the deficit by stimulating exports, some economists say they believe that the focus should be on investing in new technologies to make up for losses of market share in traditional areas like manufacturing.
 ''It's not just a matter of selling what we've got,'' said Robert E. Scott, senior international economist at the Economic Policy Institute. ''We've got to come up with new products and break down barriers in foreign markets.''
 Businesses also face the problem of manipulated currencies overseas. A handful of Asian countries -- economists pointed to China -- continue to keep currencies at artificially low levels, making their exports more attractive to buyers than American goods. The biggest United States trade deficit continues to be with China. In January, it rose to $18.3 billion, from $18.1 billion in December, the Commerce Department said.
 In his remarks, Mr. Obama singled out those policies, saying ''China moving to a more market-oriented exchange rate will make an essential contribution to that global rebalancing effort.'' 
 But few expect to see major shifts in Chinese monetary policy anytime soon, making it hard for American companies to tap into the explosive growth of emerging Asian economies.
 There is also the threat of protectionism. Ralph C. Bryant, senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said efforts to stimulate exports could prompt other countries to take similarly ambitious actions.
 ''There's no way that all countries can increase exports at the same time,'' Mr. Bryant said. ''If we do it and everyone else does it, it will be less successful and raise the possibility of friction.''
 Administration officials said they remained confident that their policies would spur substantial growth in exports. They noted that senior officials had been instructed to work with foreign governments to broker new export opportunities.
 The president's new panel, called the Export Promotion Cabinet, will include representatives from the State Department, the Treasury, the Commerce and Agriculture Departments, and other federal agencies involved in trade. The president also named an advisory committee on international trade, called the President's Export Council, which will be led by W. James McNerney Jr., the chief executive of Boeing, and Ursula M. Burns, the chief executive of Xerox.
 In addition, the administration plans to make significant changes to the export control system, which restricts exporting certain technologies for national security reasons, like cellphones with encryption capabilities.
 The export drive also faces political obstacles, chief among them the considerable disagreement in Congress, which controls trade policy, over American participation in the long-stalled Doha round of global trade negotiations.
 In addition, free-trade agreements with Colombia, Panama and South Korea that were negotiated by the administration of President George W. Bush have stalled in the Senate, even though Mr. Bush and Democratic leaders in Congress agreed in 2007 to insert labor and environmental protections into the accords.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); MARKET SHARE (67%); EXCHANGE RATES (66%); MONETARY POLICY (60%)

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE US (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (69%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



300 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Report Describes Worsening Human Rights in Iran and China

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON and NAZILA FATHI; Brian Knowlton reported from Washington, and Nazila Fathi from Toronto.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At a time of heavy international pressure on Iran, the State Department said Thursday that the human rights situation there had ''degenerated'' since the disputed presidential election last year. 
 In a toughly worded analysis, the department cited killings of election protesters and acts of politically motivated torture, beatings and rape.
 ''An already poor human rights situation rapidly deteriorated after the June elections,'' said Michael H. Posner, assistant secretary for democracy, human rights and labor, as the department released its overview of human rights around the world in 2009. 
 The voluminous report also broadly criticized practices in China. Mr. Posner called them ''poor and worsening.'' The report cites more repression of ethnic and religious minorities, increased detention and harassment of activists and public interest lawyers and continuing repression in Tibet.
 It also criticizes government control of the Internet in China, though the report did not include the complaints this year by Google executives about cyberattacks originating in China. Beijing has vigorously denied having any role in those attacks.
 Mr. Posner said that in places like China and Iran, ''connective technologies'' had proved to be double-edged. While they allow a ferment of spontaneous organizational activities by government critics, they also give governments ''greater energy in curtailing freedom of expression.'' 
 In Iran, the opposition Web site Jaras reported Thursday that a prominent political activist who was arrested on June 12 had been released from prison. 
 The activist, Mostafa Tajzadeh, a former deputy interior minister, was released Wednesday in what was called a ''leave from prison,'' Jaras reported. Mr. Tajzadeh received a hero's welcome at his home, and pictures were circulated on the Web of two leading opposition figures, Mir Hussein Moussavi and the former president Mohammad Khatami, visiting him there.
 Hundreds of opposition activists have been arrested since the election, and most of them remain incarcerated. 
 The Committee to Protect Journalists, a New York-based group, announced this month that at least 52 journalists remained in prison. On Thursday, a lawyer for Saeed Leylaz, a prominent journalist and economist, said his sentence had been reduced to six years from nine, a term that rights groups said remained indefensible. The term for Bahman Amuwee, another journalist, was cut to five years from seven, the rights group Reporters Without Borders said.
 The State Department criticism was not limited to authoritarian or developing nations. The department expressed its ''growing concern'' over discrimination against Muslims in Europe, noting in particular a Swiss ban on the construction of minarets.
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, in releasing the report, said that the United States held itself to the same standards it used to assess other countries. 
 There was, in any case, criticism for some countries closely allied to the United States. 
 Even as the Obama administration works to bolster the Afghan government for an eventual American departure, the report described the existing rights situation in Afghanistan as poor, and it said the Afghan election last year was marred by ''serious allegations of widespread fraud.'' 
 As for Iraq, the report noted that violence decreased significantly last year. Still, it listed numerous rights offenses, including arbitrary killings, disappearances and torture. 
 Mr. Posner also signaled some trends of global concern, including the increasing efforts by some governments to curtail local advocacy. ''No less than 25 governments in the last couple of years have imposed new restrictions on nongovernmental human rights and other organizations,'' the report said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (88%); PRISONS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); WRITERS (85%); TORTURE (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (74%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); CYBERCRIME (73%); RELIGION (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); ARRESTS (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (77%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



301 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Benefits

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I was surprised to see Paul Krugman write that my position regarding unemployment benefits was ''bizarre'' to him (''Senator Bunning's Universe,'' column, March 5). 
 In a recent debate on the Senate floor over the so-called jobs bill, I argued that it shouldn't be called that because its provisions were not job creators. A long-term extension of unemployment benefits, for example, if anything, could be a disincentive to find work.
 It's textbook economics (and common sense) that unemployment benefits do not create jobs, and extending them for the long term can actually have the effect of reducing a worker's incentive to find new employment quickly.
 Just refer to a textbook written by Mr. Krugman himself that states: ''Public policy designed to help workers who lose their jobs can lead to structural unemployment as an unintended side effect... in other countries, particularly in Europe, benefits are more generous and last longer. The drawback to this generosity is that it reduces a worker's incentive to quickly find a new job.''
 It's disappointing to see well-respected people like Mr. Krugman use my argument about job creation simply to make a partisan attack.
 Jon Kyl Washington, March 8, 2010
 The writer, a Republican of Arizona, is the assistant Republican leader in the Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); WRITERS (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (89%); JIM BUNNING (72%); JON KYL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



302 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: Janet Yellen Is Picked For Fed Seat, Official Says

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration has settled on Janet L. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, to serve as vice chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, a senior administration official said on Thursday night. 
 Ms. Yellen, 63, who was chairwoman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers and a member of the Fed's Board of Governors in the Clinton administration, was widely considered to be the front-runner for the position. She would succeed Donald L. Kohn, who intends to retire when his four-year term expires in June.
 Ms. Yellen is viewed by some economists as relatively more inclined to keep interest rates low to stimulate economic growth and reduce the high rate of joblessness. The Fed now faces a tricky balancing act of trying to nudge rates up from historic lows while not choking off a recovery.
 Top officials, including Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, were still in conversations with Ms. Yellen about the position, according to the administration official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the search was to be conducted in confidence.
 Reached at home on Thursday night, Ms. Yellen declined to comment.
 If Ms. Yellen was offered the position and accepted, her salary would be less than half that of her compensation at the San Francisco Fed.
 But she would be returning to the Fed headquarters at a crucial time for the institution, which faces the task of stimulating economic recovery without igniting inflation after having lowered interest rates to historic lows and injected billions of dollars into the economy in recent years in response to the financial crisis and the recession.
 Mr. Obama renominated the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, to a second four-year term last year, and Mr. Bernanke was confirmed by the Senate in January, but only after a divisive debate that included criticism of the Fed for failing to adequately oversee banks and anticipate the crisis.
 Ms. Yellen, a Brooklyn native who received her Ph.D. in economics at Yale, has taught in the Haas School of Business at the University of California, Berkeley, since 1980. She has published widely on a variety of macroeconomic topics and is an authority on unemployment.
 Among her publications is a 2001 book, ''The Fabulous Decade: Macroeconomic Lessons from the 1990s,'' written with Alan S. Blinder, a former vice chairman of the Fed.
 Ms. Yellen's husband, George A. Akerlof, is a Nobel Prize-winning economist who also teaches at Berkeley.
 Mr. Obama has named one other Fed governor, Daniel K. Tarullo, who took office in January 2009. Two other seats on the Fed's seven-member board also need to be filled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); RECESSION (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (92%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2010



303 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: To Take On Botox, Rival Tries Rebate

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
Allergan and Medicis Pharmaceutical are the Coke and Pepsi of vanity medicine.
 Allergan makes Botox Cosmetic, the well-known injectable anti-wrinkle treatment. Medicis markets Dysport, a competing anti-wrinkle shot, in the United States. The Food and Drug Administration has approved both drugs to smooth skin furrows between the eyebrows. 
 And now Medicis has introduced a new marketing campaign that pits Dysport directly against Botox, essentially issuing a Pepsi challenge for the wrinkle wars. The campaign is even called the Dysport challenge. 
 Medicis is offering more than rebates on its own product. For customers who feel unsatisfied after trying Dysport, the company is also offering a rebate on a treatment with Allergan's Botox. 
 ''We are so confident that we are literally willing to bet our money that patients will love their Dysport treatment,'' said Jonah Shacknai, the chief executive of Medicis.
 The Dysport campaign, which runs through April 30, is thought to be the first time a drug maker has offered a rebate on a competing drug. But it is hardly the first instance of pushing pharmaceuticals with a marketing zeal more typical of consumer products that do not carry a risk of medical side effects. 
 These days, hoping to inspire patient loyalty, various makers of prescription drugs are promoting giveaways, rebates and discounts. Sepracor, for instance, is offering a seven-day free trial of its popular sleeping pill Lunesta. Merck is running a print ad with a voucher for a free 30-day supply of its Januvia tablets for Type 2 diabetes. Another Merck ad carries a $20 coupon for the allergy and asthma drug Singulair. 
 But it is vanity medicine -- including products like Botox and Dysport -- that has been at the forefront of consumer enticement programs. That is because insurance typically does not cover such medical products, meaning consumers must pay for them out of pocket, buying directly from physicians. Volume discounts or rebates for the doctors have also been part of the marketing push. 
 Some medical ethicists worry that the discounts and deals may prompt doctors and patients to make decisions based on money rather than efficacy and safety. When doctors sell cosmetic medical treatments on which they themselves receive rebates, it poses inherent conflicts of interest, said Dr. Carl Elliott, a professor of bioethics at the University of Minnesota medical school
 ''It's like a doctor who has his own drugstore, and he's writing the prescriptions and selling them,'' Dr. Elliott said. ''It's the treatment of medicine as a consumer product that seems a little creepy.'' 
 Neither Botox nor Dysport is entirely risk-free. Both are purified forms of botulinum toxin -- a nerve poison produced by the bacteria that can cause botulism. The injections have occasionally resulted in temporary cosmetic problems like droopy eyelids or uneven eyebrows. And such drugs now display federally mandated ''black box'' warnings on their labels stating that botulinum toxins have been associated with rare but potentially life-threatening health problems. 
 Mr. Shacknai of Medicis said he understood ethicists' concerns about the marketing of medications prescribed to treat specific diseases. But Dysport and Restylane, a skin-plumping injection marketed by Medicis, are not disease treatments, he said, but cosmetic products intended to improve the appearance.
 ''What we are doing with the Dysport challenge and ongoing promotions for Restylane,'' he said, ''is to make it easier financially for people to try our products after consulting with a physician and determining if it's right for them.'' 
 The Dysport promotion, running on the product's Web site and in a few glossy magazines like Us Weekly, offers a $75 rebate check on an initial Dysport treatment for wrinkles between the eyebrows, a procedure that can cost consumers $300 to $500. 
 The ''challenge'' comes into play for those who elect to have a second procedure three months later. Satisfied customers can receive a $75 rebate on a follow-up Dysport treatment, while dissatisfied customers who want to switch can receive a $75 rebate on a Botox treatment. 
 ''This is really a novel spin,'' said Dr. Kenneth Beer, a dermatologist in West Palm Beach, Fla., who is a paid investigator, consultant and speaker for both Allergan and Medicis. ''There are always loyalty or affinity rebates, but they never come in and say, 'Check out the neighborhood and, if you don't like it, we'll pay you to move back.' '' 
 The campaign demonstrates the lengths to which a new entrant to the wrinkle-smoother category will go to gain market share from Botox, which enjoyed a virtual monopoly on injectable toxins in the United States until the introduction of Dysport last year. 
 Botox, a drug that has both cosmetic and medical uses, had worldwide sales last year of about $1.3 billion. Gary Nachman, an analyst at the health care investment bank Leerink Swann, estimated that Dysport could eventually gain a 20 to 25 percent market share in the United States. He described the Dysport rebate effort as a kind of ''Hail Mary pass'' that could help Medicis get to that point faster.
 Last month, Medicis sent out a mass message about the rebate to its physician customers.
 ''Financially speaking, there's no reason not to try Dysport,'' said the Medicis message. ''This offer is so unique that we expect plenty of news coverage. And we have promotional items for use in your office.''
 Caroline Van Hove, an Allergan spokeswoman, responded to a reporter's query with an e-mail message that described the Dysport promotion as a price-cutting exercise meant to cannibalize the market -- at the expense of patient education. She wrote that ''incentive programs like Medicis's engage consumers for the wrong reasons, deflecting their attention to bargain shopping versus proper physician dialogue on product benefits/safety.'' 
 Mr. Shacknai of Medicis said the Dysport promotion ''understandably would create fear and concern with our competitors'' because the rebate could lead to a significant shift in market share.
 Drug advertising is often expensive. But given the economics, the Dysport rebate promotion is not sustainable for long, said Ronny Gal, an analyst at the research firm Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. 
 With a list price to physicians of $475 per vial -- enough to treat the eyebrow furrows of perhaps five patients -- Dysport brings Medicis about $100 per treatment, he said, so a $75 rebate for each is steep. Moreover, the rebate program effectively repositions Dysport as a value brand, a risky strategy in the luxury sector of vanity medicine, Mr. Gal said. 
 In any case, critics like Dr. Elliott of Minnesota say this latest wrinkle in the wrinkle wars pushes drug marketing one step further away from evidence-based medicine and deeper into the realm of product promotion.
 ''I'm not fan of turning medicine into a consumer product,'' Dr. Elliot said. ''But we are so far into it already that I don't see the tide turning back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Medicis Pharmaceutical is turning aggressive in its marketing, offering $75 off treatments with the wrinkle drug Dysport. (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); ETHICS (87%); DRUG SAFETY (78%); BIOETHICS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MEDICAL ETHICS (73%); DIABETES (73%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (72%); ALLERGIES (72%); ASTHMA (69%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); US FDA APPROVALS (58%); EXECUTIVES (53%); TYPE 2 DIABETES (50%)

COMPANY: ALLERGAN INC (92%); MEDICIS PHARMACEUTICAL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%)

TICKER: AGN (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



304 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: White Women Influencing Shift to Minority-Majority Nation

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN

 BODY:
James Warren is a columnist for the Chicago News Cooperative.
 Sarah Elder is obvious evidence of a rotten economy, laid off as a social worker at a Park Ridge residential facility for foster children.
But as she makes ends meet, working at a North Side bakery cafe while taking classes at night, Ms. Elder, 26, is a member of a little-known, declining demographic in the Chicago area: non-Hispanic white children and white women of prime child-bearing age.
 It has long been assumed that the United States will be a minority-majority nation by mid-century, with the cultural and political ramifications already under way. But that change has been largely attributed to immigration and a booming Hispanic birth rate. 
 Only now are some demographers realizing that we have missed a trend that could accelerate that change, the decline in the number of white children and white women of child-bearing age. Like so much of the country, even the smartest academics have been so focused on the politically contentious issue of immigration, and the surging Hispanic population, that they missed an intriguing transformation right under their noses.
 The March issue of Population and Development Review includes a full explanation via ''Growing Diversity Among America's Children and Youth: Spatial and Temporal Dimensions,'' written by Kenneth Johnson of the University of New Hampshire and Daniel Lichter of Cornell University.
 Mr. Johnson was the best Chicago-area demographer for years at Loyola University. Now he has opted for even longer winters, a chance to go to hockey games at the University of New Hampshire where fans chuck a fish onto the ice after their first goal, to be part of the Carsey Institute for Families and Communities. The institute is named for Marcy Carsey, an alumna who was a producer for ''The Cosby Show,'' ''Roseanne'' and other hits.
 Mr. Lichter and Mr. Johnson discerned that the nation's increasingly colorful cast involves the less-understood trend of a decline in the number of non-Hispanic white children. It's not just that white women are having fewer children, there are simply fewer non-Hispanic white women between ages 20 and 39.
 As Mr. Johnson concedes, few in his field perceived an actual drop in the number of white children as they focused on the Hispanic boom. And they didn't realize that the decline in the number of white women of child-bearing age was so large, ultimately not putting the two elements together and then considering implications for the pace of diversity among American youth.
 ''I didn't know about the latter fact -- the decline in child-bearing white females -- until I did analysis to revise the article,'' said Mr. Johnson, who attributes the trend to a reduction in child-bearing among baby-boomer mothers and, now, their daughters.
 Consider that in 2008 only 33.5 percent of Cook County's under-20 population was non-Hispanic white. That is among the lowest percentages in the country.
 In 2000, 56.2 percent of those under the age of 20 in suburban Cook County were non-Hispanic whites, compared with 16.6 percent of Chicago's under-20 group. By 2008, the figure in suburban Cook County had fallen to 47.9 percent.
 Meanwhile, Lake County, Ind., shifted to minority-majority for those under age 20 in 2008, one of 500 United States counties in that category.
 Mr. Johnson calculated birth rates for non-Hispanic whites and minorities in Cook County in 2008. Among women ages 15 to 50, there were 62.6 births per 1,000 women for minority females, but only 41.9 births per 1,000 women for white women. White women as a group are older on average than Hispanic women, and are not having as many children.
 ''Yeah, it does surprise me,'' said Ms. Elder, who plans to have children after she is more financially stable and finds the right partner in a world in which ''me and my friends are more choosey.''
 Ultimately, the new data underscores the United States' unceasing evolution, hinting that it might get a bit more fractious if change is indeed speeded up. New guys make old guys nervous. Ins become outs. Political spoils are redistributed. It's as common as divorce and dashed hopes of Cubs' fans.
 Indeed, at the turn of the last century, the birth rate among Irish immigrants was far greater than today's Hispanic rate of three per family. Other groups were nervous, but life went on. Now the Irish are in decline.
 We should remember that during Saturday's St. Patrick's Day Parade. Wave at Mayor Richard M. Daley and Gov. Patrick J. Quinn -- and then put some parade photos in a time capsule.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (91%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); WOMEN (89%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); FOSTER CARE (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); BAKERIES (72%); IMMIGRATION (69%); WINTER SPORTS (69%); RETAIL BAKERIES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (54%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



305 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (ABC) SUPERNANNY In her 99th episode Jo Frost, above, tackles the case of Ashley McKinney, a full-time bank employee and accounting student. At home, though, Ms. McKinney assumes the role of referee as she runs interference between her son, who swears, breaks furniture and toys, and steals food from the refrigerator, and his defiant older sister. In the 100th episode, at 9, Ms. Frost revisits some of her most-improved subjects, like the Weinsteins, whose truck-driving ''raging bull'' patriarch has come to embrace his feminine side; Antoinette Lewis, a mother of two toddlers who was widowed just days before Ms. Frost first visited her; and Blythe Newsome, a single mother of six who has put the kibosh on unruly behavior. 
 NOON (Fox Business Network) FOX BUSINESS Liz Claman interviews Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank, live from the summit sponsored by the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research. 
 8 P.M. (CBS) GHOST WHISPERER Melinda (Jennifer Love Hewitt) fights to extract the soul of a little girl (Joey King) trapped in a violently haunted house. ''Medium,'' at 9, flashes back to the wedding of Allison (Patricia Arquette) and Joe (Jake Weber) as they prepare for a life together that includes her ever-strengthening ''gift.''
 8 P.M. (Sundance) LIVE FROM ABBEY ROAD The concert series at Abbey Road Studios in London continues with performances by Fleet Foxes, P J Harvey and John Parish, and Manchester Orchestra.
 8 P.M. (National Geographic) DOGTOWN Jeff Popowich, DogTown's animal-care operations manager, and Dr. Mike Dix, its medical director, spay and neuter dozens of dogs at a Navajo Nation community in Arizona to help prevent more dogs ending up homeless. In ''Dog Whisperer,'' at 9, Cesar Millan comes to the rescue of a boy whose Siberian husky has turned from sweet to snippy and lends a hand to Dr. Rick Garcia, who often helps out at Mr. Millan's Dog Psychology Center.
 8 P.M. (NBC) WHO DO YOU THINK YOU ARE? Celebrities trace their family trees to understand their roots in this series, whose executive producers include Lisa Kudrow. Here Emmitt Smith, the Hall of Fame running back, travels to Alabama and Virginia as he investigates a family rumor that his paternal grandmother had white ancestry.
 8:30 P.M. (13) NOW ON PBS As the concept of global warming meets with debate, the journalist David Brancaccio and Conrad Anker, an environmentalist and high-altitude climber, trek to the Gangotri Glacier in the Himalayas -- the source of the Ganges River -- to witness the consequences of its melting. Then they head to Glacier National Park in Montana to examine the effects closer to home. 
 9 P.M. (Syfy) CAPRICA Amanda (Paula Malcomson) is disturbed by visions of her dead brother -- and a nagging secret from her past. Joseph (Esai Morales) enlists Heracles (Richard Harmon) in his search for his daughter, Tamara (Genevieve Buechner), in V-World's New Cap City. And Zoe (Alessandra Torresani) finds her escape plans thwarted by romance.
 9 P.M. (TLC) WHAT NOT TO WEAR Stacy London and Clinton Kelly encounter a kink in the process when they try to rebuild the wardrobe of Sara, a breast cancer survivor who underwent a double mastectomy and decided against reconstructive surgery -- and who lost 90 pounds in the process.
 9 P.M. (13) BILL MOYERS JOURNAL Mr. Moyers interviews John Sexton, the president of New York University, about God, baseball and the disintegration of civil discourse in contemporary society.
 10 P.M. (BBC America) FRIDAY NIGHT WITH JONATHAN ROSSLady Gaga, left, chats about her career, her lack of a love life, her outsider status in the music industry, her eccentric fashion choices and the designer Alexander McQueen, who died on Feb. 11 and was the mastermind behind her towering ''armadillo'' heels. Stephen Moyer, the star of HBO's ''True Blood,'' discusses his relationship with his co-star Anna Paquin and explains why he called Robert Pattinson of ''Twilight'' fame ''the Diet Coke of vampires.''
 10 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHERThe roundtable includes the actor Hill Harper; Amy Holmes, a conservative political contributor for CNN; and Gary E. Johnson, a former Republican governor of New Mexico. Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado, and John Heilemann, a journalist for New York Magazine, are interview guests. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); DOGS (88%); WITNESSES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MEN (77%); SINGLE PARENTS (75%); FAMILY (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); CLIMATOLOGY (72%); MOUNTAINS (72%); GENEALOGY (72%); MAMMALS (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); CELEBRITIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (65%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (64%); NATIONAL PARKS (63%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (62%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (52%); JENNIFER LOVE HEWITT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (54%) HIMALAYAS (79%); ARIZONA, USA (68%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (54%); MONTANA, USA (50%) EUROPE (76%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



306 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1414 words

HEADLINE: Retiring at 50? Greek Trend Is a Cautionary Tale

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.; Niki Kitsantonis contributed reporting.

 BODY:
ATHENS -- Vasia Veremi may be only 28, but as a hairdresser in Athens, she is keenly aware that, under a current law that treats her job as hazardous to her health, she has the right to retire with a full pension at age 50.
 ''I use a hundred different chemicals every day -- dyes, ammonia, you name it,'' she said. ''You think there's no risk in that?''
 ''People should be able to retire at a decent age,'' Ms. Veremi added. ''We are not made to live 150 years.''
 Perhaps not, but it is still difficult to explain to outsiders why the Greek government has identified at least 580 job categories deemed to be hazardous enough to merit retiring early -- at age 50 for women and 55 for men. 
 Greece's patchwork system of early retirement has contributed to the out-of-control state spending that has led to Europe's sovereign debt crisis. Its pension promises will grow sharply in coming years, and investors can see the country has not set aside enough to cover those costs, making it harder for Greece to borrow at a reasonable rate.
 As a consequence of decades of bargains struck between strong unions and weak governments, Greece has promised early retirement to about 700,000 employees, or 14 percent of its work force, giving it an average retirement age of 61, one of the lowest in Europe.
 The law includes dangerous jobs like coal mining and bomb disposal. But it also covers radio and television presenters, who are thought to be at risk from the bacteria on their microphones, and musicians playing wind instruments, who must contend with gastric reflux as they puff and blow. 
 And Greece may be an early indicator of troubles to come. Bigger countries like Germany, France, Spain and Italy have relied for decades on a munificent state financed by a range of stiff taxes to keep the political peace. Now, governments are being pressed to re-examine their commitments to generous pensions over extended retirements because the downturn has suddenly pushed at least part of these hidden costs to the surface. 
 The situation in the United States is different but also painful. The government will face its own fiscal reckoning, analysts say, as 78 million baby boomers begin drawing on Social Security and Medicare programs to support them in retirement. Without some combination of higher taxes, benefit reductions or an increase in the retirement age, both programs will run short of money to make their promised payments within the next few decades. And many American states are woefully behind on funding their pension obligations for public employees.
 In Europe, the conflict has already erupted on the streets, with workers demanding that generous retirement policies be kept while governments press to pare pensions and raise retirement ages because taxpayers cannot bear any additional weight and creditors will no longer finance excessive borrowing.
 The problem goes well beyond how to keep up payments and deal with budget deficits resulting from the financial crisis. Because of generous promises, unfunded pension liabilities in Europe far outweigh the stated debt that governments owe creditors, which have caught Greece and several other weak European nations in a borrowing vise. 
 According to research by Jagadeesh Gokhale, an economist at the Cato Institute in Washington, bringing Greece's pension obligations onto its balance sheet would show that the government's debt is in reality equal to 875 percent of its gross domestic product, which is the broadest measure of a nation's economic output. That would be the highest debt level among the 16 nations that use the euro, and far above Greece's official debt level of 113 percent.
 Other countries have obscured their total obligations as well. In France, where the official debt level is 76 percent of economic output, total debt rises to 549 percent once all of its current pension promises are taken into account. And in Germany, the current debt level of 69 percent would soar to 418 percent.
 Mr. Gokhale, like many other economists, says he believes that this is a more appropriate way to assess a country's debt level because it underscores the extent to which the cost of providing for rapidly aging populations, if left unchanged, will add to already troubling debt burdens.
 ''You have to look ahead and see how pension expenditures are rising in comparison to the revenues needed to finance them,'' he said. ''It's not just Greece; all major European countries are facing pension shortfalls. It is a very difficult challenge because it involves selling pain to current voters.''
 He estimates that to fully finance future pension obligations, the average European country would need to set aside 8 percent of its economic output each year, a practical impossibility given that raising already high taxes so much would impose a crushing economic burden.
 Mr. Gokhale has done a similar calculation for the United States and estimates that the truest measure of federal government debt, incorporating Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security and other obligations, is $79 trillion, or about 500 percent of the nation's output. Currently, its public debt is equal to about 60 percent of its domestic output.
 Many of these liabilities will not be coming due for decades. But as most developed countries experience having fewer workers to cover pensions and health care bills for the elderly, their ability to borrow more is rapidly approaching its limits.
 In its 2009 annual report on Greece, the International Monetary Fund warned that the government's excessive pension and health payments to the elderly would result in a debt level of 800 percent of its output by 2050 if left unchecked, similar to the figures Mr. Gokhale calculated. That is a theoretical number, of course: international creditors, who are already balking at lending Greece more money, would require changes in government programs well before Athens borrowed that much.
 ''The pension crisis is the biggest single test of Greece's willingness to tackle longstanding reform,'' said Kevin Featherstone, an expert on the Greek political economy at the London School of Economics. ''Any meaningful reform must lead to reduced benefits for workers -- the government needs to show that it can overcome union pressure.''
 Greece has proposed raising its average retirement age to 63, and that may be just a beginning.
 The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, has met with union leaders and broached the prospect of raising the normal retirement age from 60. Spain has gone further, proposing to raise the retirement age to 67, from 65. In the face of union opposition, however, the government is wavering.
 Pensions have become a divisive topic not just among workers and governments, but among governments within Europe. Germany, which has taken politically difficult steps to increase its retirement age to 67 while reducing benefits, is serving as the most stubborn taskmaster on fiscal matters for Greece.
 Greece's pension problem far outweighs the finagling with its accounts that it relied upon in the early 1990s to get its official deficit figures low enough to qualify to join the euro club. A recent report by the European Commission found that the amount Greece spends on pensions and health care for its aging population, if left unchecked, would soar to about 37 percent of its economic output by 2060 from just over 20 percent today, making it the highest level in Europe. 
 ''Projected pension expenditures are expected to double,'' said Manos Matsaganis, a professor at the University of Athens and author of numerous papers on Greece's pension system. ''That is unsustainable.'' Still, the millions who have come to rely on these payouts will not give up their pensions easily. ''Nobody thinks they have to be the one to sacrifice,'' Mr. Matsaganis said. 
 That's certainly true of Christos Bourdakis, a retired government accountant. Sitting in a dusty union hall in Athens, he is in no mood to offer any concession on his pension, regardless of the severity of the crisis.
 He is a full-throated proponent of a system that pays him a yearly pension of 30,000 euros, or $41,000, more than he was making when he retired 13 years ago at the age of 60. He has even written a book in defense of it, ''The Guide to Granting Civil Service Pensions in Greece.''
 ''We have to protect our standard of living,'' Mr. Bourdakis said. ''The pensioners should not have to pay for the crisis created by the bankers.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 15, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about pensions in Europe gave an incorrect figure for Germany's current debt as a percentage of gross domestic product. It is 71.9 percent, as the accompanying chart said, not 69 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A storefront window damaged during violent protests in Athens on Thursday. The police estimated that 20,000 people participated in demonstrations against Greece's austerity measures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MILOS BICANSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) CHART: Promises, Promises: Already struggling with existing debts, governments across Europe face daunting pension obligations that are likely to require major changes in retirement programs. (Sources: Eurostat (debt)
calculations by Jagadeesh Gokhale, senior fellow at the Cato Institute, based on data from Eurostat (current and future obligations)
U.S. Government Accounting Office
 U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (United States)) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARLY RETIREMENT (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (89%); TRENDS (87%); RETIREMENT POLICIES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); MEDICARE (74%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); LABOR FORCE (69%); EURO CRISIS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); DEBT CRISIS (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); MUSIC (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (63%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (63%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (63%); COAL MINING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (84%); CATO INSTITUTE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (94%) EUROPE (94%); GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



307 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Report Describes Worsening Human Rights in Iran and China

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON and NAZILA FATHI; Brian Knowlton reported from Washington and Nazila Fathi from Toronto.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At a time of heavy international pressure on Iran, the State Department said on Thursday that the human rights situation there had ''degenerated'' since the disputed presidential election last year. 
 In a toughly worded analysis, the department cited killings of election protesters and acts of politically motivated torture, beatings and rape.
''An already poor human rights situation rapidly deteriorated after the June elections,'' said Michael Posner, assistant secretary for democracy, human rights, and labor, as the department released its overview of human rights around the world in 2009. ''At least 45 people were killed in clashes,'' he said. 
 The voluminous report, an annual assessment called for by law, also broadly criticized practices in China. Mr. Posner called them ''poor and worsening.'' The report cites increased repression of ethnic and religious minorities, increased detention and harassment of activists and public-interest lawyers, and continuing repression in Tibet.
 It also criticizes the Chinese government's control of the Internet in that country, though the report did not include the complaints early this year by Google executives about a series of major cyberattacks originating in China. Beijing has vigorously denied having any role in those attacks.
 Mr. Posner said that in places like China and Iran, ''connective technologies'' had proved to be double-edged. While they allow a ferment of sometimes spontaneous organizational activities by dissidents and government critics, they also give governments ''greater energy in curtailing freedom of expression.'' 
 In Iran, an opposition Web site reported on Thursday that a prominent political activist who was arrested on June 12, the day of Iran's disputed presidential election, has been released from prison. 
 Mostafa Tajzadeh, a former deputy interior minister, was released on Wednesday in what was called a ''leave from prison,'' the Web site, Jaras, reported. Mr. Tajzadeh received a hero's welcome, and pictures circulated on the Web of two leading opposition figures, Mir-Hussein Moussavi and the former president, Mohammed Khatami, visiting him at his home.
 Hundreds of opposition activists have been arrested since the presidential election, and most of them remain incarcerated. Human Rights groups have said that none are released unconditionally and that most have posted hefty sums for bail and are summoned regularly to appear in court. 
 The Committee to Protect Journalists, a New York based group, announced this month that at least 52 journalists remain in prison. On Thursday a lawyer for Saeed Leylaz, a prominent journalist and economist, said that his client's sentence had been reduced from nine years to six, a term that human rights groups said remained indefensible. The sentence for Bahman Amuwee, another journalist, was reduced from seven years to five, the rights group Reporters without Borders said.
 The criticism in the State Department report was not limited to authoritarian or developing countries. The State Department expressed its ''growing concern'' over discrimination against Muslims in Europe, noting in particular a Swiss ban on the construction of minarets.
 Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, in releasing the report, insisted that the United States holds itself to the same standards it uses to assess other countries. 
 There was, in any case, criticism for some countries closely allied to the United States. 
 Even as the Obama administration works to bolster the Afghan government for an eventual American departure, the report described the existing rights situation there as poor. It listed problems like extrajudicial killings, torture, poor prison conditions, restrictions on freedom of expression and discrimination against women. 
 The election there last year was marred by ''serious allegations of widespread fraud,'' the report noted.
 As for Iraq, the report noted an overarching reality: that violence had significantly decreased last year. Still, it listed numerous rights offenses, including arbitrary killings, disappearances, torture, poor prison conditions, arbitrary arrests and inadequate protection for refugees. 
 Mr. Posner also signaled some trends of global concern. One was the increasing efforts by some governments to curtail local advocacy. ''No less than 25 governments in the last couple of years have imposed new restrictions on nongovernmental human rights and other organizations,'' the report said.
 Another was governments' misuse of national-security or emergency legislation to broadly curtail civil liberties. He said Egypt, Russia and Sri Lanka had all been guilty of this. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (88%); PRISONS (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); WRITERS (84%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); TORTURE (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); LAWYERS (74%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); CYBERCRIME (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%); ARRESTS (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (82%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (82%)

PERSON: MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (56%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



308 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 4449 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Art

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'APPROACHING ABSTRACTION,' through Sept. 5. Self-taught artists are noted for producing weird, wacky and otherwise eccentric objects. This exhibition of about 60 works from the museum's permanent collection proposes that the best of them are also adept abstractionists. Few works are nonrepresentational, and most have a vibe of strangeness, but almost every piece is as compelling for its form and technique as for its idiosyncratic imagery. 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)20100311 
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'KIKI SMITH: SOJOURN,' through Sept. 12. Kiki Smith's installation ''Sojourn'' was inspired by an 18th-century needlework, Prudence Punderson's ''First, Second and Last Scene of Mortality.'' There are rich ideas in that work, about the female life cycle and the life of the artist; to these Ms. Smith adds religious, mystical and personal symbolism. The installation's many drawings, peopled with women at various stages of life, can be quite affecting. But Ms. Smith has a tendency to sugarcoat death with craft: flowers, papier-mache, antique glass, gold and silver leaf and glitter everywhere. Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20100311
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'DESIGN USA: CONTEMPORARY INNOVATION,' through April 4. Less an exhibition than an extra-large design seminar in your head, this dense display presents work by all 78 recipients of the annual National Design Awards, which were established in 2000. Encompassing several generations, it honors individuals and corporations and recognizes historic achievements and some of the latest things. One of these is a specially programmed iPod Touch that serves as an exhibition guide; it puts the show in the palm of your hand and is free. Don't even think about not using it. 2 East 91st Street, Manhattan , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)20100311
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CONTEMPLATING THE VOID: INTERVENTIONS IN THE GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM,' through April 28. In what it calls ''a self-reflexive folly,'' the museum completes the 50th-birthday festivities for Frank Lloyd Wright's building by inviting more than 200 artists, architects and designers to have their way with the landmark rotunda -- imaginatively speaking, of course. Some 193 responded, usually in digital photographs, depicting it as everything from a place to exhibit their work; to a site for trampolines, forests and aquariums; to a jumping-off point for a redesign. The architects tend to be more Oedipal, but not one really improves upon the space. The list of invitees, while global, is a trifle predictable, overloaded with sculptors and installation artists and noticeably short on painters and photographers, who also have imaginations. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)20100311
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'ANISH KAPOOR,' through March 28. This exhibition by the celebrated British sculptor consists of just one work, but it's a doozy. Viewable only from three partial perspectives, ''Memory'' is an enormous, egg-shaped volume of Cor-Ten steel, wedged into a boxy side gallery like a dirigible that drifted off course and got stuck. One approach offers only a square window allowing you to behold the impenetrable, seemingly infinite darkness inside. Call it a womb with a view. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Johnson)20100311
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERING THE ART OF CHINESE PAINTING: XIE ZHILIU (1910-1997),' through July 25. This philosophically intriguing exhibition presents drawings and paintings by a 20th-century Chinese artist and professor who was trained in traditional artistic methods in his youth. That meant primarily copying and tracing drawings and paintings by past masters. Xie's elegant but unimaginative copies are interesting mainly for what they reveal about how classical artists arrived at works of seemingly effortless perfection: not by observing nature but by repeatedly imitating other artists. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100311
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'MASTERPIECES OF FRENCH ART DECO,' ongoing. The largest exhibition of works from the Met's extensive holdings in French Art Deco fills a large gallery to overflowing with nearly 150 examples of art, furniture, wallpaper, decorative objects and the odd painting. Far more aristocratic than its American counterpart, French Deco devoted exquisite craftsmanship, opulent materials and historicizing design to the creation one-of-a-kind luxury items. The desks and cabinets of the incomparable Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann quietly dominate, along with vases by Jacques Dunand and silver by Jean Puiforcat. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100311
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'PLAYING WITH PICTURES: THE ART OF VICTORIAN PHOTOCOLLAGE,' through May 9. This seemingly modest, startlingly reverberant exhibition reveals that upper-class Englishwomen of the 1860s and '70s devised an early form of collage, the supposedly Cubist breakthrough. Adding cutout photographs of family, friends, royals and celebrities to the watercolor albums that were already an acceptable female activity, they created all kinds of witty effects -- drawing-room scenes, trompe l'oeil designs, human-animal hybrids. The effects of Darwinism and the publication of ''Alice's Adventures in Wonderland'' register in these amazing works, as does the collective, even osmotic nature of invention. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20100311
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'THE DRAWINGS OF BRONZINO,' through April 18. Agnolo Bronzino was the hand to hire for a power portrait in mid-16th-century Florence. He could turn toddlers into potentates and make money-mad Medicis look like decent people. At his peak, in the 1550s, he was the most influential artist in Florence. So why, given his fame, he has had to wait some 500 years for a museum solo is a puzzle. But that solo has now arrived at the Met. Encompassing all but 2 of the 61 works on paper currently attributed to the artist, and justifying each attribution in its gorgeous catalog, the show is scholarly tour de force and a breathtaking demonstration of a sovereign hand at work and at play. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)20100311
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100311
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'YOUNG ARCHER,' continuing. Is it or is it not? ''Young Archer,'' a life-size marble carving of a naked boy drawing an arrow from his lion's paw quiver might be the earliest known sculpture by Michelangelo. Scholars disagree. On a 10-year loan from France, the legless, armless boy with a yearning expression is in the Met's bright and airy Velez Blanco Patio, where viewers may decide for themselves if it is the real thing. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100311
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'DEMONS AND DEVOTION: THE HOURS OF CATHERINE OF CLEVES,' through May 2. The need for new bindings creates the rare, maybe one-time chance to see 93 of the 157 surviving miniatures from the extraordinary illuminated book of hours commissioned around 1440 by Catherine of Cleves (1417-1479) in the southern Netherlands. Among the masterpieces of a golden age by an anonymous artist known only as the Master of Catherine of Cleves, it features exquisite, jewel-like miniatures that locate the Holy Family, apostles, and saints in the here and now, among detailed interiors and landscapes and trompe l'oeil borders. The kingdom of God gives way to that of the real. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)20100311
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'ROME AFTER RAPHAEL,' through May 9. This exhibition of 16th-century Italian drawings from the Morgan's collection covers a lot of ground. It moves, in fits and starts, from the High Renaissance to Mannerism and the nascent Baroque. And it's enlivened by the classic match-up of Raphael versus Michelangelo; drawings by both artists, and their followers, pit Raphael's sprezzatura, or relaxed refinement, against Michelangelo's vein-popping muscularity. Look for drawings by Parmigianino (in Raphael's camp) and the sumptuous Farnese Hours by Giulio Clovio (in Michelangelo's), in addition to splendid Late Mannerist studies by Anibale Carracci. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20100311
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'BIGGER, BETTER, MORE: THE ART OF VIOLA FREY,' through May 2. Viola Frey's giant ceramic sculptures of men and women are among the underappreciated wonders of late-20th-century art. Rising 11 feet and higher, wearing business suits and ties and nondescript dresses, they have a spookily imposing physical presence and a clunky, cartoonish ugliness. With their blank or seemingly angry expressions, they may remind you of what it was like to be a child among grown-ups troubled by incomprehensible problems. 2 Columbus Circle , (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Johnson)20100311
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'PERFORMANCE 7: MIRAGE BY JOAN JONAS,' through May 31. It helps to think of time as cyclical, or at least non-Western and nonlinear, when encountering Joan Jonas's ''Mirage'' at the Museum of Modern Art. The latest installation of a piece conceived in 1976, it suggests that Ms. Jonas's art has a longer-than-usual life span because it's constantly being reborn. In its current form at MoMA, ''Mirage'' consists of six moving-image works arranged in a loose circle and accompanied by a series of props: metal cones, chalkboards, a mask and a wooden hoop, among other objects. Performance, drawing, dance and video combine and recombine in arcane but thrilling ways. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)20100311
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'TIM BURTON,' through April 26. Given the tremendous visual appeal of Mr. Burton's movies, you would expect that this expansive retrospective of his nonmoving art would be equally exciting. Alas, it is a let-down. Focused mainly on hundreds of Victorian-Gothic-Expressionist cartoons dating from his teenage years to the present and including paintings, sculptures, photographs and a smattering of short films on flat screens, it is an entertaining show, but there is a sameness to all Mr. Burton's two- and three-dimensional output that makes for a monotonous viewing experience. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)20100311
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WILLIAM KENTRIDGE: FIVE THEMES,' through May 17. This well-designed exhibition of prints, drawings, films and film installations from the last 30 years showcases the artist's dazzling fusion of charcoal drawing and stop-action animation to excellent effect. The 1990 animations that meditate on the ravages of apartheid remain especially powerful. As the show traces a kind of progression away from, and back to, political subject matter, through a gallery that offers a dreamlike visit to his studio, it also traces his growing role in his own work, first as image, then as actor. And with a forthrightness that is almost touching, the exhibition also confirms that in the contest between still and moving images, moving almost always wins. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100311
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'MONET'S WATER LILIES,' through April 12. Devotees of late Monet can rejoice. The Museum of Modern Art has hung its three ''Water Lilies'' together for the first time since 2001, along with a relatively recent acquisition and two guests. That's six waterlily paintings, all completed in the last dozen years before the artist's death in 1926. In addition, these canvases are isolated from the onward march of Modernism according to MoMA, and their separateness emphasizes their meditative, immersive quality. But it also confirms their radical achievement. While bringing Monet's Impressionism to a grand conclusion, they also open the path to Abstract Expressionism. It can still stop you in your tracks. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20100311
 NATIONAL ACADEMY MUSEUM: '185TH ANNUAL: AN INVITATIONAL EXHIBITION OF CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN ART,' through June 8. This year the National Academy's Annual has been pared down to 65 artists from the usual 120 or so. Reduced finances are to blame, but happily this juried exhibition doesn't suffer. Quality is high over all, and congestion has been minimized. Painting dominates, as always here, but with everything from photorealism to geometric abstraction, the show still feels rich in variety. The lineup includes the Chelsea habitues Dana Schutz, Ghada Amer and the fast-rising Alison Elizabeth Taylor, whose impressive marquetry work graces a marbled alcove. National Academy Museum, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Rosenberg)20100311
 NEW MUSEUM: 'SKIN FRUIT: SELECTIONS FROM THE DAKIS JOANNOUS COLLECTION,' through June 6. This exhibition of works from the collection of a New Museum trustee selected and installed by the art star Jeff Koons might conceivably have pulled a rabbit out of its ethically sticky headgear. Instead it teems with usual suspects, and its overcrowding benefits no one, especially the several larger, more admittedly festivalist works that form its high points. This museum has some rethinking to do, and high on the list should be coming to grips with the size and limitations of its often poorly proportioned galleries. Ultimately the air of complicity is less disturbing than the look of complacency. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side , (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)20100311
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'NOGUCHI REINSTALLED,' through Oct. 24. In anticipation of the museum's 25th anniversary in 2010, this show presents about 200 of Isamu Noguchi's works from the 1920s to the 1980s. They include sculptures in stone, wood, metal and clay; maquettes and models for parks and playgrounds; and props for Martha Graham dance productions. Though unfailingly suave, Noguchi's polished abstraction no longer has the urgency it once had, but the museum as a whole is a wonderful time capsule, and the sculpture garden he designed is utterly blissful. Noguchi Museum, 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Johnson)20100311
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: DANIEL BOZHKOV AND DUKE RILEY, through April 25. Two young and opportunistic artists -- Daniel Bozhkov and Duke Riley -- have found a way to make the most of the Queens Museum's transitional state. (The museum is in the process of expanding.) Egged on by trusting curators and a residency program, Launch Pad, that encourages exploration of the site and the Queens community, they have turned to the surrounding park and its former ice rink for materials and inspiration. Their adjacent solo installations are well worth seeing, if only because they are profoundly at odds with each other: Mr. Bozhkov salvages, while Mr. Riley torches the place in a ''naumachia'' (Roman naval battle). Flushing Meadows-Corona Park , (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100311
 SCULPTURE CENTER : 'LEOPARDS IN THE TEMPLE,' through March 30. Inspired by a Kafka short story, this exhibition says a lot about the state of contemporary art. It presents an international array of artists who riff on familiar conventions of modern art. Kitty Kraus's squared-off lengths of men's suit fabric lying flat on the floor evoke Carl Andre but with a feminist twist. Don't miss the funny, magical films by the team of Joao Maria Gusmao and Pedro Paiva in the basement. 44-19 Purves Street, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 361-1750, sculpture-center.org. (Johnson)20100311
 SMITHSONIAN NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN INDIAN: 'A SONG FOR THE HORSE NATION,' through July 7, 2011. Including saddles, riding blankets, clothing and beaded bags and much more, this exhibition brings to light a fascinating and ultimately sad chapter in American history: the hundred-year period during which horses were central to the lives of the Plains Indians. A highly efficient form of transportation, horses enabled Navaho, Crow, Comanche, Pawnee and others to expand their territories and flourish more than they otherwise would have. It also enabled them to make war more effectively, though ultimately not effectively enough. George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan , (212) 514-3700, americanindian.si.edu. (Ken Johnson)20100311
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'COLLECTING BIENNIALS,' through Nov. 28. Start your Whitney Biennial experience on the fifth floor, with this permanent-collection show of works by artists who were in past Annuals and Biennials. It caps off an extravaganza of brand-new art with a humbling and diverting mix of classics, oldies and one-hit wonders. Figurative paintings from the 1950s Annuals are paired with contemporaneous Abstract Expressionism, and some big names from the 1980s (Schnabel, Condo) look refreshed. Most eye-opening is the fact that some of the most influential artists (Warhol, Hammons) barely register on the Biennial scorecard. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20100311
 Galleries: Uptown
 'PAINTINGS OF FELIX VALLOTTON,' through April 10. The Swiss artist Felix Vallotton (1865-1925) was and still is much admired for his elegantly simplified, erotic woodcut prints. This show of paintings from 1905 to 1912, all depicting attractive young women in different states of dress and dishabille, is a revelation. Inspired by Ingres, these works offer a weird, frankly lubricious classicism. It would be great to see more. Michael Werner, 4 East 77 Street , (212) 988-1623, michaelwerner.com. (Johnson)20100311
 Galleries: Chelsea
 CHARLES W. HUTSON: 'A SURVEY,' through March 27. The Southerner Charles W. Hutson (1940-1935) took up painting at the age of 65, and refusing instruction from his artist-daughter, developed a genre of charmingly awkward yet carefully observed landscapes -- first in watercolor, then pastels and finally oils. The pastels and oils are best. Their powdery surfaces works well with Hutson's rounded, sometimes clumsy shapes and radiant colors. But it's more than that. Hutson as much paid attention to light, reflections and space as any Impressionist. His best scenes have a sense of atmosphere and depth that invites us into enter into their beatific calm. Edward Thorp Gallery, 210 11th Avenue, at 25th Street , (212) 691-6565, edwardthorpgallery.com. (Smith)20100311
 STERLING RUBY: '2 TRAPS,' through March 27. A formidably talented artist -- known for garish ceramics, vandalized Minimalist plinths and spray-paint abstractions -- goes big and relatively bland for his two-piece debut at a big-top gallery. ''Bus,'' a former prison bus with sinister customizing, looks like something Mad Max might drive if he could find the gas; ''Pig Pen,'' a shipping-container-size assemblage of cages made of barred security doors, might imprison Max's competitors for said gas. The qualities that make Mr. Ruby's work compelling are present here, but in uncompelling ratios. Pace Wildenstein, 545 West 22nd Street , (212) 989-4258, pacewildenstein.com. (Smith)20100311
 BANKS VIOLETTE, through April 17. This show has something of a comeback feeling. Its centerpiece is one of the artists best efforts so far: a big, morose chandelier made of white fluorescent lights hung low that resembles a skeletal cabana or giant wind chime, despite the arctic light. Its black wiring spreads like tendrils across the floor to a bank of outlets in a big road case that a rock band might use. Opposite enormous rumpled planes of Mr. Violette's signature black fiberglass refract the light of the chandelier. They suggest abstract outcroppings, collapsing billboards and rock arena sets. They're a bit vacuous, but have never been better used. Gladstone Gallery, 530 West 21st Street , (212) 206-7606, gladstonegallery.com. (Smith)20100311
 Last Chance
 MATTIA BONETTI; closes on Saturday. Here's a show that might brighten your mood in these dark economic times. Either that or the glossy spectacle of Mr. Bonetti's conspicuously expensive-looking furniture will make you want to start a Communist revolution. With an insouciant disregard for stylistic consistency and a fondness for rich materials, this Swiss designer (born in 1952), who is based in Paris, creates luxurious, Postmodernist functional objects that are as witty as they are beautiful. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, Chelsea , (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Johnson)20100311
 'EL ANATSUI'; closes on Saturday. The shimmering tapestries that this Ghanaian-born artist makes from the discarded foil of liquor-bottle wrappers are blithely indifferent to Western distinctions between high and low, art and craft, function and display. Their ravishing patterns seem to accrue without plan and look almost more repaired than made. They evoke lace but also chain mail; quilts but also animal hides; garments but also mosaic, not to mention the rich ceremonial cloths of numerous cultures. Their gender-neutral subversion is amplified by exuberance and scale and -- given all the brand names of African liquors -- an atmosphere of revelry, excess and dubious behavior. Jack Shainman Gallery, 513 West 20th Street , (212) 645-1701, jackshainman.com. (Smith)20100311
 CHRISTIAN HOLSTAD: 'THE WORLD'S GONE BEAUTIFUL'; closes on Saturday. Christian Holstad was part of a wave of young, busy-handed, crafts-oriented artists who gained attention in the mid-2000s, when the art market was trying to leave identity politics and consumerist critique behind. As it turned out, his work was about both, but he was talking about them in a new way, from the vantage point of a child antsy with adult appetites; many of them are evident in this recession-conscious show of soft-sculpture shopping carts and sex-food-and-religion collages. Daniel Reich Gallery, 537A West 23rd Street , (212) 924-4949, danielreichgallery.com. (Cotter)20100311
 JEWISH MUSEUM: 'ALIAS MAN RAY: THE ART OF REINVENTION'; closes on Sunday. This show, a traditional retrospective with an irresistible biographical hook, gives roots to an artist who preferred to be seen as rootless. Born Emmanuel Radnitzky to Jewish emigres from Russia, Man Ray reinvented himself as one of the luminaries of the interwar avant-garde. Yet his garment-industry background had a material hold on him, visible in references to mannequins, coat hangers and patterns. More than 200 works, including paintings, photographs, films, assemblages and his signature rayographs, link Man Ray's frequent shifts among mediums to a more profound condition of restlessness. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20100311
 ROY NEWELL: 'THE PRIVATE MYTH'; closes on Saturday. Meet the vehement, transcendent geometry of an all but unknown painter who died in 2006 at 92. Although friends with prominent Abstract Expressionists, Mr. Newell marched to his own drummer, showing little, selling less, working small and hard-edged with a smoldering palette of reds, pinks, blues, greens, blues and black. Paintings were sometimes fine-tuned for 30 years or more, as the idiosyncratic dates indicate. Architectural suggestions are frequent but tend to be overruled by sheer formal muscularity of color, shape and surface. The tension is amazing. So is the sudden solid jolt that expands the perimeters of the New York School -- at this late date. Carolina Nitsch Project Room, 534 West 22nd Street , (212) 645-2030, carolinanitsch.com. (Smith)20100311
 CRAIG NORTON: 'CIVIL RIGHTS'; closes on Sunday. In his first New York show, this almost freakishly talented self-taught artist assembles panoramas of cutout figures based on events from the civil rights movement. Depicting everyone from the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. to white supremacists, the figures are made riveting by ultrarefined, hyper-real (but subtly distorted) faces executed in ballpoint pen. These are attached to bodies that combine carefully dovetailed bits of wallpaper and are miracles of movement and gesture. Regardless of your final opinion, this must be seen to be believed. Jim Kempner Fine Art, 501 West 23rd Street, Chelsea , (212) 206-6872, artnet.com/jkfa.html. (Smith)20100311
 JIMMY RASKIN: 'INSEPARABILITY VS. SIMULTANEITY'; closes on Sunday. Mr. Raskin explains his multimedia works in impenetrable prose illustrated by textbooklike diagrams referring to Nietszche, Pinocchio and black holes. Fortunately, he also makes lively, visually interesting sculptures that revolve mainly around oppositions between geometric abstraction and messy collage and assemblage. Modernist purity meets Postmodernist festivity to thought-provoking effect. Miguel Abreu, 35 Orchard Street, Lower East Side , (212) 995-1774, miguelabreugallery.com. (Johnson)20100311
 STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: '30 SECONDS OFF AN INCH'; closes on Sunday. This exhibition of 60 disparate artworks by 42 contemporary artists from several generations might be called revisionist. It takes a refreshingly visual, even formal, approach to art that is usually plumbed for political and social meanings based largely on the artist's identity. Its curator, Naomi Beckwith, wants to emphasize the meanings -- social and otherwise -- embedded in the actual objects on view. Her success is mixed, partly because she doesn't spend much time explaining the experiential nature of her selections in the catalog, and also because she includes too many familiar, established artists. But she makes many excellent choices, introduces some promising young talent and displays a visual intelligence that is often rare in her chosen profession. 144 West 125th Street , (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Smith)20100311

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'William Kentridge: Five Themes' at the Museum of Modern Art: This exhibition of prints, drawings, films and film installations by William Kentridge, the South African artist, ''showcases the artist's dazzling fusion of charcoal drawing and stop-action animation to excellent effect,'' Roberta Smith writes. Above, ''Seated Couple (Back to Back)'' (1998). (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM OF MODERN ART) (C19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



309 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: After Millions Spent, a New Food Destination Beckons, but Drivers Beware

BYLINE: By SCOTT JAMES. 
Scott James is an Emmy-winning television journalist and novelist who lives in San Francisco.

 BODY:
Harriet Street in San Francisco's South of Market district is easy to miss. With its ragged flats, modern lofts, a car repair shop and a community center, it is one of those gray mixed-use blocks typical in this part of town. 
 Yet it is there, and on a few surrounding streets, that you will find the toughest street-parking restrictions in the city: One hour only. Monday to Sunday. 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. 
''I pay two to three thousand dollars in fines every year,'' said Bolden Gary Liu, manager of Bee Automotive, whose car-intensive business faces both Harriet and Sixth Street. 
 Leisurely parking is clearly not welcome -- a conflicting message as the city has spent millions of dollars to lure visitors to explore this neighborhood, a compact redevelopment zone roughly bounded by Stevenson and Harrison Streets on the north and south and Fifth and Seventh Streets on the east and west. There is an extensive effort under way to transform notorious, poverty-and drug-embattled Sixth Street and its environs into the city's latest destination. 
 Sixth Street, the city's skid row, is emerging as a new haven for foodies: a gourmet ghetto.
 Since 2003, the city has spent $18.15 million on the revitalization project. Sidewalks have been fixed, and streetlights and trees were added, but much of the money has gone to solving more intractable problems: the human casualties and neglected properties that have blighted the neighborhood.
 When the effort started, Sixth Street had a 43 percent business vacancy rate, said Michael J. Grisso of the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency, the city department administering the money for improving the area.
 ''When you have a bunch of abandoned buildings like that,'' Mr. Grisso said, ''it attracts quality-of-life problems. Some of the places had been vacant for decades.''
 The city worked with property owners and new businesses to fill empty storefronts, and now the vacancy rate is 11 percent. 
 In addition, there are the suddenly ubiquitous teams of social workers in bright blue shirts who walk the streets -- the city's Community Guide program providing outreach to drug addicts and mentally ill and homeless people. A police substation is also in the works.
 It is all enough to inspire hope, or at least a decent boeuf bourguignon.
 According to Mr. Grisso, 40 percent of current and planned businesses for Sixth Street are food related, including the French bistro Passion Cafe that opened a few weeks ago. With outdoor seating amid a sea of red umbrellas one floor up from street level, the cafe has an atmosphere evocative of Paris, a world away from the despair that once made this block infamous.
 ''Everyone thought that we were crazy to put so much into Sixth Street,'' said Jacques Franck Andre, a transplanted Parisian who owns the cafe with Steve Barton. 
 Mr. Barton said the purchase of the property, seismic upgrades and transformation into a restaurant had cost nearly $2 million, most of that private investment. He said he was ''enthusiastic'' about his prospects, and those of the street. He noted that 450 people applied for his 12 job openings, and that 75 percent of those he hired came from the neighborhood. 
 The popular Vietnamese restaurant Tu Lan -- a favorite of Julia Child -- is just a few steps away, and Split Pea Seduction and Miss Saigon are attracting crowds nearby. More restaurants are planned, creating momentum for the notion that gastronomy, instead of misery, could grab hold on the street. 
 Right now, foot traffic is filling many seats, but success as a foodie destination depends on attracting visitors from beyond the neighborhood. Judson True, spokesman for the San Francisco Municipal Transit Authority, said he did not see having the city's strictest parking rules as an impediment to luring diners who might desire more than an hour to digest the local fare.
 A survey of Boston, Chicago, San Diego and San Jose could not find street parking restrictions tougher than those within the Sixth Street redevelopment zone. To the contrary, parking rules have sometimes been eased to nurture business growth. Chicago, for example, recently started allowing longer parking times in its theater district to encourage attendance. 
 Mr. True said that residents had asked for the tougher parking restrictions and that any changes must be requested by them. He also said his department had no plans on its own to join other city efforts to make the area dining friendly. 
 Street parking rules are much looser in the city's other food destinations, like North Beach and the Castro and the Marina districts.
 Sixth Street diners, Mr. True said, could hunt for rare two-hour spots in the redevelopment zone or pay to use garages or lots. But ''the goal is always to encourage people to take transit, bike, or walk, if possible,'' he said.
 If you must park on the street, however, eat fast. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (86%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); PARKING OFFENSES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); RETAILERS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); HOMELESSNESS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



310 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Poverty in New York

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Calculating Poverty in New York: More by City Standard, and Less by Federal One'' (news article, March 3): 
 The federal government's definition of poverty was calculated in the mid-1960s, when it was assumed that the average family would spend far more on food than on rent. So it is more than time for a change, especially here in New York City, where housing costs are so high.
 The effects of the recession have fallen disproportionately on low-income African-Americans, Latinos and working women, particularly single working mothers. At the Community Service Society, we documented multiple hardships among low-income New Yorkers in our latest yearly survey, ''The Unheard Third.'' These included forgoing medical treatment for lack of health insurance and food insecurity, among other hardships of a life in poverty.
 The government is focusing on job-creation bills, but it should also be financing skills development and career and technical education for young people. We need another stimulus, this one targeted to those groups in the population that have been hardest hit by the recession in what is now a jobless recovery.
 David R. Jones President and Chief Executive Community Service Society New York, March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); WORKING MOTHERS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); WOMEN (71%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (54%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



311 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1215 words

HEADLINE: Dealing With Fraud By Denial

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
Years after Charles Ponzi was imprisoned for a fraud that cost victims millions of dollars in 1920, the state of Massachusetts determined it had recovered all the assets it could, and began to distribute them to victims, who stood to receive less than 30 cents for each dollar they invested.
 To get the money, the victims had to turn over the notes they had received from Ponzi. But many of them refused to do so when the cash was offered in 1931.
 Those who refused, wrote Donald Dunn in his book, ''Ponzi: The Incredible True Story of the King of Financial Cons,'' were ''holding onto the belief that Ponzi somehow would yet make good on his promise of 50 percent interest.'' 
 He did not.
 That was probably not the first, and certainly not the last, example of what might be called ''buyer's denial.'' It is the belief that somehow a fraud was not what it seemed to be, and that there was still a way to avoid losing the money the victim had foolishly invested.
 ''One has to ignore a lot of data to come to that conclusion. But that may be better than having to admit to yourself that it is over and you're never going to get your money back,'' said Dean G. Kilpatrick, the director of the National Crime Victims Research and Treatment Center and a professor at the Medical University of South Carolina. ''It stands to reason that some would prefer to believe something else.''
 To conclude that, it may be necessary to believe that there is some large conspiracy involving the government. Otherwise, why would prosecutors have wrongly claimed there was a huge fraud?
 Perhaps the largest case of ''buyer's denial,'' at least in terms of alleged damages, is in the fraud involving a tiny company known as CMKM Diamonds, which purported to have valuable diamond mining claims. In reality, what it had was a publicity machine, including the sponsorship of a car at ''funny car'' races around the country.
 Several shareholders in CMKM -- some of whom kept buying shares after the government exposed the fraud -- want 10 current and former commissioners of the Securities and Exchange Commission to pay them $3.87 trillion, an amount equal to about half the United States government debt in public hands. You might think that would be enough, but the suit claims those are merely compensatory damages. They also want punitive damages, but do not cite a figure.
 That is an impressive amount for a company whose last published balance sheet showed total assets of $344. That is dollars, not millions.
 The tale the shareholders tell, in a lawsuit filed in January in federal district court in Santa Ana, Calif., is of a conspiracy involving not just the S.E.C., but also the Justice Department and the Department of Homeland Security.
 Before getting into their view of reality, we'll look at the record as developed in court cases filed by the S.E.C. and the Justice Department.
 By their account, CMKM Diamonds illegally issued hundreds of billions of shares of stock, which insiders proceeded to sell into the market while the company issued a series of false news releases and failed to file required financial statements with the S.E.C.
 With volume in the stock reaching billions of shares a day, the company needed an explanation for where all those shares came from. Disclosure that the company was simply printing them might have alarmed even the least astute investor.
 CMKM came up with an explanation that would also be used later by another ''pump and dump'' fraud named Universal Express. It blamed ''naked'' short-selling by criminals who had sold shares they had not borrowed beforehand. 
 Eventually, the S.E.C. ordered a temporary halt to the trading, citing the lack of public information on the company. The insiders kept selling shares, earning a total profit of at least $64 million, according to the government.
 The case stands as a tribute to the ineffectiveness of civil remedies against determined crooks. The S.E.C. sued the insiders in federal court in Nevada. Most of them did not bother to reply. The S.E.C. got an order requiring John Edwards, a British citizen said to be the mastermind of the fraud, to pay $55 million in restitution, damages and interest. He left the country.
 Urban Casavant, the company's chief executive and the man who ran the publicity machine, was ordered to pay almost $69 million, but did not. He moved to Canada.
 Both of those men, along with four other people said to have been involved in the fraud, were indicted by a federal grand jury in Nevada. Mr. Edwards is fighting extradition from Britain. Mr. Casavant is a fugitive.
 The other view of CMKM is advanced by A. Clifton Hodges, a lawyer in Pasadena, Calif. In his class-action suit representing shareholders, and in an interview, he maintained that the government had set up a sting to catch the criminals who were doing the naked shorting.
 The government had, the suit says, ''evidence that short-sellers were utilizing their activities to illegally launder moneys, wrongfully export moneys, avoid payment of taxes and to support foreign terrorist operations.''
 The government supposedly set up a sting using the services of Robert Maheu, a former F.B.I. agent and associate of Howard Hughes, who briefly served as a director of CMKM and complained that he was not paid. Mr. Maheu has since died.
 The government now should distribute to shareholders the money it made on the scheme, the suit maintains. It does not explain how it arrived at a number in the trillions.
 Mr. Hodges told me he had evidence to back up his case, but would not reveal it now.
 He said the suit is allowed under a 1971 Supreme Courtdecision that allowed victims of ostensibly improper searches by federal narcotics agents to sue the agents as individuals, even though they could not sue the government. He thinks that justifies suing everyone who was an S.E.C. member from 2004 to the present.
 Mr. Hodges told me that he could produce testimony from an unnamed witness who had heard Christopher Cox, then the S.E.C. chairman, direct that no enforcement action be taken against CMKM. Mr. Cox declined to comment, citing the pending litigation, but it is worth noting that the S.E.C. did file enforcement actions against the company while Mr. Cox was at the helm.
 Mr. Hodges told me he has the phone number of Mr. Casavant, the fugitive former chief executive, in the Canadian province of Saskatchewan, and had spoken to him. He would not provide the number.
 While pursuing his own theory of what happened at CMKM, Mr. Hodges does not seem to have done an especially thorough job of keeping up with the official version. The federal indictment of Mr. Casavant was unsealed in September, six months ago. But when I spoke to him this week, Mr. Hodges told me that Mr. Casavant had not been indicted.
 Because I had written about CMKM several years ago, several shareholders brought this suit to my attention. When I told one I believed that the suit was unlikely to succeed, another called to ask me if the government was paying me off to suppress the news. 
 If the suit is dismissed, those shareholders are not likely to conclude that the claim is nonsense. Instead, they probably will see the dismissal as proof of an even larger conspiracy. Buyer's denial can be a powerful thing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Ponzi in 1920. He offeredreturns of 50 percentand cost investors millions. (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAMAGES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (84%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); DIAMOND MINING (61%); MINES & MINING (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



312 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 124 words

HEADLINE: Highway Deaths Are on the Decline

 BODY:
The number of highway deaths in the United States fell nearly 9 percent in 2009, according to a preliminary estimate from the Department of Transportation, and the drop since 2005 is 22 percent. 
 The fourth quarter of 2009 was the 15th consecutive quarter of a falling death rate, the department said. At the beginning of the recession, the drop was linked to a decline in miles traveled, but now, highway travel is rising again, the department said. The number of deaths per 100 million vehicle miles traveled last year was the lowest since recordkeeping began, in 1954.
 The department credited its efforts to promote the use of seat belts and to prevent drunken driving. Insurance industry studies indicate more crashworthy cars played a role.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & DEATH RATES (91%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (86%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (85%); INSURANCE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



313 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Enforcement of Landscape Ordinance Comes at a Bad Time

BYLINE: By KATIE FRETLAND; Dan Mihalopoulos contributed reporting.

 BODY:
For the owner of a Humboldt Park auto repair shop who lost 25 percent of his sales this year, paying $50,000 to fix up the parking lot of his business to comply with the city's landscaping ordinance would be difficult. 
 Joe D. Perrotta, co-owner of King Transmission at 4152 West Grand Avenue, said he had never heard of the law until he received a letter in October informing him he was not in compliance with the city's landscaping ordinance and other zoning requirements.
 It took several trips downtown to show city officials his plans for compliance before his marching orders were clear: The city required him to install ornamental metal fencing around his business's parking lot and make other changes to come into compliance with zoning regulations. 
 In the middle of laying off a third of his staff because of the economy, Mr. Perrotta said the news created an additional worry. ''It's a big chunk,'' he said of the cost of the required improvements. ''It's another worker. It really is.'' 
 Already hurt by the economy, small-business owners across the city say they are being forced to stretch too far to meet the city's strict requirements for new fencing and planting trees or bushes. The city first singled out downtown buildings for such improvements, but now that the focus has turned to smaller businesses, letters like the one Mr. Perrotta received are hitting business owners just as the recession is knocking them, too. 
 Complaints from furious constituents have prompted some aldermen to call for a two-year break in enforcing the landscaping ordinance. On Wednesday, Alderman Eugene Schulter (47th Ward), a co-sponsor of the original ordinance, introduced a measure that would enact a moratorium. 
 The mandate for private investment in fencing follows a major and controversial move by the city. Mayor Richard M. Daley's love of ornamental fencing, born during a trip to Europe in the mid-1990s, led City Hall and other Daley-controlled agencies to spend millions of taxpayer dollars to put up wrought-iron-style fences across Chicago. Then in 1999, the City Council approved a change in the city's zoning and landscaping ordinances to require business owners to dig into their own pockets to surround their parking lots with the same ornamental fencing that the mayor had wrapped around schools, parks, public housing and city offices. 
 Mr. Daley's demand for the ornamental iron fencing also created controversy when the city began erecting the fences. Many of the fencing contracts were with one company, G.F. Structures, and a Chicago Tribune investigation found that the company charged prices far higher than those listed in its winning bid. The exposure forced the city to rebid its business in 2000.
 Lots downtown and near the city center were the first businesses required to comply with City Hall's mandate, while owners of smaller parking lots in some outlying neighborhoods had until Jan. 1, 2008 to erect fences and make other landscaping improvements. When business owners seek to renew their licenses to operate in Chicago, every two years for most businesses, city officials call on them to do as the landscaping ordinance requires. 
 The city can issue fines of $500 to $1,000 daily for each day a violation exists, according to the Chicago Department of Law. 
 The legislation's intent was to improve the city's appearance, the city said when the ordinance was introduced. But many small-business owners say the recession makes it almost impossible for them to comply. 
 Mr. Perrotta said that he agreed with the goal of beautifying Chicago but that ''we just need time to save the money.'' 
 Patricia Scudiero, the mayor's zoning commissioner, said this week that the outcry over enforcement reflected the stresses of the weak economy, not any increased enforcement by the city. 
 ''There is not more enforcement,'' Ms. Scudiero said. ''There is more complaining.'' 
 Ms. Scudiero said city officials had not yet decided whether they supported a moratorium, although she said her department had allowed some business owners to sign affidavits promising to do the required work within six months or a year.
 Although many Chicagoans refer to the fences as ''wrought iron,'' most are made of hollow metal tubing rather than the more expensive, heavy, solid-iron fencing. Ms. Scudiero said the city would accept a cheaper alternative to wrought iron -- but not chain-link fences. 
 Alderman Ariel Reboyras (30th Ward), who supports a moratorium on enforcement, said that he did not wish to repeal the ordinance, but that he did want to give business owners time to recover from the recession. 
 ''These folks are just barely making it the way things are,'' Mr. Reboyras said. ''I know they're hurting. Everyone is.'' 
 The Zoning Department said it could not produce data showing the number of businesses that had been asked to comply with the ordinance or a total dollar amount of fines arising from noncompliance. Peter Strazzabosco, a spokesman for the department, said the computerized record-keeping system would not allow for the extraction of this data. 
 While the City Council debates a moratorium, business owners must prepare to make the changes. Should a moratorium occur, the two-year hiatus would pass quickly for many business people now facing the hefty expense.
 Ande Kubis, owner of Frame Factory at 3400 North Pulaski Road in Irving Park, said the city asked her to spend $100,000 for fencing and landscaping as well as replacing the gravel lot at her picture-framing company with a paved lot, drains and curbs. Ms. Kubis said that money she had put aside for the parking lot had disappeared in the recession. Her staff of 45 employees has been reduced to 39. 
 ''We need a couple of years,'' Ms. Kubis said. 
 Joe Thomas, the owner of Three Brothers Auto, at 3722 West Belmont Avenue, said that he knew his parking lot needed to be fixed, but that he could not imagine how he could afford it. 
 Mr. Thomas, 60, is the shop's only full-time employee, and he employs one student. Three Brothers Auto is his livelihood and retirement plan, and the cost of improvements would have to come from operations. 
 ''Where am I going to generate this kind of revenue?'' he asked. 
 Elsewhere, a couple who in the past made the improvements mandated by the city are now second-guessing at least part of the investment. 
 In 2000, when the couple, Hector and Jean Hernandez, had opened Tiger Auto Parts at 707 North Ashland Avenue in West Town, they could afford to comply with the ordinance. They erected a decorative fence and planted trees and bushes around their store. 
 Today, the fence remains, but the bushes are dead and gone. 
 An employee of the store, Frank Mendoza, said he thought the city had pushed too hard.
 ''The mayor is a bully,'' Mr. Mendoza said. ''I think he's trying to push the working people out of the city.'' 
 Mrs. Hernandez, who with her husband paid to put in the fence and the plants, said she supported the landscaping ordinance, although she believed the bushes and trees were too much of an expense. 
 ''He wants a nice, uniform look to the city,'' Mrs. Hernandez said of the mayor. ''You don't want to put up garbage. It looks nice.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Chicago landscaping ordinance is compelling Joe D. Perrotta to replace the chain-link fence around his business's parking lot. The owners of Tiger Auto Parts have already complied with the ordinance by erecting a decorative wrought-iron fence. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSe MORe/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); ORDINANCES (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (89%); MAYORS (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); APPROVALS (70%); FENCING CONTRACTORS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



314 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 21B

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: What to Do With an Empty Storefront? A Makeshift Art Gallery

BYLINE: By KELLY KLEIMAN

 BODY:
As the recession takes its toll on retailing, empty storefront windows throughout the Chicago area are turning into ''pop-up'' art galleries, the result of an opportune alignment of interests among artists, landlords and chambers of commerce.
 The temporary galleries, which have also sprung up in New York, Paris and other cities, provide a showcase for many artists at a time when conventional galleries are closing or struggling to survive. Although the trend does not signal a sudden cultural awakening among business owners, many of them consider the displays preferable to papered-over or blacked-out windows. 
James R. Nash Jr., president of Farnsworth-Hill Realty in Evanston, said his first impulse in dealing with vacant storefronts was to copy building owners who put vinyl coatings over their windows and advertise products like Gatorade. But then, he said, ''I started exploring the artwork idea,'' after local advertisers rejected his overtures to showcase their brands that way.
 Mr. Nash offered the darkened windows of one of his downtown buildings to ''Art Under Glass,'' a project created in June by the Evanston Arts Council and EvMark, the downtown merchants' association, to display the work of a number of artists. The arts council has since assembled two more exhibits in vacant storefronts.
 ''Even in the process of installing work, the people on the street are just stopping and looking,'' said Jill Brazel, chairwoman of the arts council. ''On a dreary afternoon, it's really exciting to see it all come together.''
 Whether the popularity of the temporary galleries can help revive business activity in their neighborhoods is hard to assess. One Evanston property that played host to an arts council exhibit became the target of a bidding war between two prospective tenants, Ms. Brazel said. But while the council's first exhibit attracted interest in Mr. Nash's building, and a tenant leased a space afterward, Mr. Nash said the two events were not necessarily connected. 
 ''In this economy, it's pretty hard to measure,'' he said.
 In any case, organizers said, store owners agree to have the projects mainly to keep their properties attractive, not necessarily to reap a direct economic benefit. Still, the anecdotal evidence is mostly positive.
 One of the largest collections of pop-up galleries is in the Edgewater neighborhood of Chicago. Rae Ann Cecrle, a real estate agent, spearheads Edgewater Artists in Motion, which features the work of more than 100 artists in 25 storefronts, including many that she manages. 
 In one window, a wire sculpture of a large, wild-eyed puppet glares at passers-by. Handmade paper and jewelry appear alongside delicate wall hangings and metal constructions festooned with bracelets and baubles. The program is open to anyone willing to participate without pay, though their work accompanied by contact information for potential buyers.
 One of the Edgewater artists, Tracy R. Poyser, said that besides sales of her photographs of urban landscapes, the exposure had brought her interior design commissions and the offer of a solo show in a conventional gallery. Ms. Poyser said there had been ''a wonderful response from the neighborhood'' to her work, especially her color photos of the Edgewater lakefront and its striking views of downtown.
 Laura Schaeffer, an installation artist who moves her gallery from one donated space to another in Hyde Park, said her inspiration came from squatter galleries that flourished in Berlin after the wall separating East and West Berlin came down in 1989.
 ''Artists had taken over these spaces, and they were galleries or dance halls or underground pubs, places to meet,'' said Ms. Schaeffer, who curates the work of invited artists -- performers as well as visual and video artists -- in her nomadic Opportunity Shop.
 When she moved to Hyde Park five years ago, Ms. Schaeffer said: ''I was looking for a community of artists, not isolated in their studios. We wanted to see what it's like doing something on your own, outside of institutions.'' 
 While pop-up galleries are a recent development, an early use of vacant property was Gallery 37, the now-established program of arts education that began in the rubble of Block 37 in the Loop. A few temporary galleries have occupied empty commercial space in the area since 2007, but only in the past year have they proliferated and spread into more downtown stores and neighborhood business districts. 
 Ty Tabing, executive director of the Chicago Loop Alliance, a downtown business association, estimated that there were 25 to 30 vacant spaces in the east Loop area alone, with five having temporary exhibits of visual and performance art organized by the alliance. Besides Evanston, Hyde Park and Edgewater, pop-up exhibits are in suburban Oak Park and Albany Park in Chicago. 
 ''We'd have more if building owners would be a little more cooperative,'' said Mr. Tabing, a sentiment expressed by gallery organizers in other neighborhoods.
 There are concerns about possible legal liability, and some owners are reluctant to hand their keys over to anyone, even temporarily, said Ms. Brazel of the Evanston Arts Council. 
 Not surprisingly, the participating property owners are not eager to play host to artists indefinitely. 
 ''I hope it's a short-term project,'' said Georgina Mitchell, an Oak Park developer. ''The long term is, 'Please, just get me some tenants.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ceramic figures by Clara Hoag are on display in unoccupied retail space in Evanston, part of the Art Under Glass program. Enid Smith and her 3-year-old daughter, Beatrice, examined another artist's storefront works. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID KLOBUCAR/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); ART DEALERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); SOFT DRINKS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (72%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



315 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2057 words

HEADLINE: Obama Social Secretary Ran Into Sharp Elbows

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Long before the State Dinner party crashers and the tension with her White House colleagues and the strain in her relationship with the first lady, Desiree Rogers began to understand she was in trouble when David Axelrod summoned her to his office last spring to scold her.
 Ms. Rogers had appeared in another glossy magazine, posing in a White House garden in a borrowed $3,495 silk pleated dress and $110,000 diamond earrings. But if the image was jarring in a time of recession, Mr. Axelrod was as bothered by the words and her discussion of ''the Obama brand'' and her role in promoting it, according to people informed about the conversation. 
 ''The president is a person, not a product,'' he was said to tell her. ''We shouldn't be referring to him as a brand.'' 
 The confrontation that day between Ms. Rogers, the White House social secretary, and Mr. Axelrod, the senior adviser to President Obama, put at odds two longtime Chicago friends of the first family. And it foreshadowed a deeper, wrenching conflict that would eventually cost Ms. Rogers her job and tear at the fabric of the close-knit inner circle around Mr. Obama.
 The rise and fall of Desiree Rogers, the glamorous Harvard-educated corporate executive who brought sizzle to the State Dining Room but became a victim of a publicity stunt by a pair of aspiring reality show stars, is a tale familiar to almost any White House. A new president comes to town and installs friends he trusts, but inevitably some of them wind up burned by the klieg lights and corrosive politics of Washington.
 While it has happened to past presidents, though, this was the first time it has happened to Mr. Obama, who prided himself on running a campaign free of the typical petty rivalries and personal subplots that distract other politicians. And it happened with a friend who at first was celebrated for personifying the fresh, new-generation approach that the Obamas promised to bring to Washington.
 For Ms. Rogers, associates said the episode proved a searing experience that has soured her on Washington. She believes she was left largely undefended by the White House, by her colleagues, including Mr. Axelrod, Robert Gibbs and even her close friend, Valerie Jarrett. And while she is unwilling to discuss her story publicly, several associates shared her account in the belief that her side has been lost in the swirl of hearings, backbiting and paparazzilike coverage.
 ''As she put it, 'They never lifted a finger to help me set the record straight,' '' said one of the associates, who insisted on not being identified to avoid alienating the White House. ''She didn't get any help from Gibbs, no help from Axelrod, no help from Valerie Jarrett. Nobody came to her defense.''
 White House officials who asked not to be named rejected that, pointing to instances where Mr. Gibbs and the others publicly defended her, even if it was not as vigorously as she may have wanted.
 Asked for comment, Katie McCormick Lelyveld, Michelle Obama's press secretary, praised Ms. Rogers's ''track record of success as an incredibly successful leader of a team here that turned out 330 events over 13 months.''
 The tension with her colleagues was building long before November when Michaele and Tareq Salahi, socialites from Virginia, managed to slip uninvited into the State Dinner for Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India. Ms. Rogers's hip style, expensive clothing and presence at fashion shows at first were seen as symbolizing a new Camelot but ultimately struck many as tone deaf in a time of economic hardship and 10 percent unemployment.
 The White House eventually clamped down on her public profile. She was ordered to stop attending splashy events and showing up in fancy clothes on magazine covers. When Michelle Obama learned one day that Ms. Rogers was on a train heading to New York to attend an MTV dinner, the first lady told her longtime friend to cancel, associates said. 
 After the Salahi incident, these associates said Ms. Rogers was barred by the White House from testifying before Congress or giving interviews or even answering written questions. She was told she could not attend the Kennedy Center Honors, a major annual Washington event. And even her decision to finally resign leaked before she could secure a new job.
 So Ms. Rogers is leaving the White House and Washington never having been allowed to describe publicly what happened that night four months ago. But in conversations with associates, she has defended herself by noting that she had positioned a staff member to greet guests at the East Portico landing just as the Social Office had sometimes done in the past. And she has expressed disappointment that her work at creating a ''people's house'' for the first couple has been overshadowed by one lapse.
 ''It's been very difficult for her,'' said Amy Zantzinger, who was President George W. Bush's last social secretary and has become a friend of Ms. Rogers's. ''And I think what can't be lost is there are all these unbelievable events they did at the White House when she was there, particularly bringing in all the artists and musicians. I don't think that's ever been done before to this magnitude.''
 Representative Peter T. King of New York, the ranking Republican on the House Homeland Security Committee, faulted Ms. Rogers for not having a staff member at the outer checkpoint on the street and complained that the White House ''just totally stiff-armed us'' in terms of getting answers to what happened.
 But Mr. King suggested Ms. Rogers was left hanging in the wind by the White House. ''She was in a tough spot,'' he said. ''All of us in public life dread the screw-up which is going to come back to haunt you.''
 Public life has singed presidential friends over the years with striking regularity, people like Bert Lance during Jimmy Carter's administration, Vincent W. Foster Jr. and Webster L. Hubbell during Bill Clinton's, and Harriet E. Miers and Alberto R. Gonzales during George W. Bush's. Washington can be seductive and then destructive.
 In some cases, they were ill equipped for the jobs they were given, unable to transform success in private life or smaller-scale politics to the White House. In other instances, the cutthroat politics proved too caustic to stomach. In the most extreme example, Mr. Foster, a law partner of Hillary Rodham Clinton before he became deputy White House counsel, committed suicide in 1993 leaving behind a note saying that ''here ruining people is considered sport.''
 Off to Washington
 A native of New Orleans, Ms. Rogers graduated from Wellesley College and earned an M.B.A. from Harvard University. She got to know the Obamas some 20 years ago through her husband at the time, who went to Princeton University with Michelle Obama's brother, Craig Robinson.
 Ms. Rogers's glamorous looks, fashion taste and on-the-town profile in Chicago obscured a fast rise through the management world, as she served as head of the Illinois lottery, then president of Peoples Gas and North Shore Gas, and finally as a senior executive at Allstate Financial. During the 2008 campaign, she helped bring in roughly $600,000, according to a person familiar with campaign finances.
 Tall and striking, Ms. Rogers can easily pass for younger than her 50 years. She seemed to the Obamas to be a natural for White House social secretary. The first African-American to hold the job, she swept into Washington brimming with ideas for executing the Obamas' vision of opening the White House to a wider circle of people, and became an instant magnet for attention.
 After taking an apartment in the same exclusive Georgetown building as her friend, Ms. Jarrett, Ms. Rogers quickly became a hot Washington draw. She posed for a spread for Vogue and later accompanied its editor, Anna Wintour, to Fashion Week in New York. Within months, other magazines came calling, including Town & Country, Vanity Fair, Michigan Avenue and Capitol File.
 But it was a spread in The Wall Street Journal's magazine, WSJ, with the expensive clothes and jewelry provided by the magazine, that got her in trouble in the White House. 
 Mr. Axelrod called her in for a long conversation about her interviews and photo shoots, warning her explicitly that she was flying into dangerous territory and that Washington loves to watch people become too big and ultimately crash and burn, according to people familiar with the conversation. Ms. Rogers noted that everything she had done had been approved by the White House. She viewed her trips to fashion shows and other events as a way to make connections in the creative community and find talent to perform at the White House.
 But her profile was deliberately lowered. Mr. Gibbs, the White House press secretary, had already canceled a proposed photo shoot of Ms. Rogers wearing an Oscar de la Renta ball gown in the first lady's garden, officials said. Michelle Obama's new chief of staff, Susan Sher, more closely scrutinized Ms. Rogers's public activities, to her aggravation.
 Praise and Criticism
 Amid all this, Ms. Rogers earned widespread praise for the events she organized at the White House, including a summer luau for members of Congress, a poetry jam and a Halloween party for 2,000 trick-or-treaters. She managed to put on 309 events in 2009, compared with 231 produced in the last year of the Bush White House.
 ''If you look at the totality of her time here,'' said Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, ''she did a good job of projecting a White House that was open, family friendly and classy.''
 Shawnelle Richie, a Rogers friend from Chicago, said, ''She is a multitasker of the first order.'' Ms. Richie added: ''She did a good job. If the impression is she didn't, I think people are wrong. They're misinformed.''
 For all the attention to Ms. Rogers's photo spreads, Ms. Richie said, Ms. Rogers kept focused on the job at hand. ''Glamour wasn't a distraction,'' she said. ''If everybody were to look at her complete work and her history and her background, as opposed to an isolated event, they would see she was the right person for the job at the right time.''
 The isolated event, of course, was the State Dinner in November, which in fact received near universal acclaim as an elegant, memorable evening until the next morning when the first reports of the party crashers emerged.
 As she put together plans for the dinner, Ms. Rogers and her staff consulted records of two State Dinners held by Mr. Bush before leaving office. The records indicated that the social office in both cases sent a person to the East Portico of the White House, where the metal detectors are stationed for State Dinners, in case any guests are not on the Secret Service list. Her office copied that arrangement.
 In the Spotlight
 At State Dinners in the past, though, the social office stationed a person, or even more than one, at the outer checkpoint. Critics like Mr. King faulted Ms. Rogers for not doing that. Still, the Secret Service acknowledged it was not supposed to allow the Salahis in without checking. And the officers on duty that rainy night as the long line of wet celebrities and power players waited impatiently did not check with anyone from the social office when the Salahis showed up.
 The White House afterward issued a memorandum announcing the policy would be changed. In interviews afterward, both the president and first lady praised the State Dinner, with Mrs. Obama calling it ''an outstanding success'' and dismissing the gate crashers as ''a footnote.'' But she and Mr. Obama bypassed opportunities to defend Ms. Rogers. ''I was unhappy with everybody who was involved in the process,'' the president said. ''It was a screw-up.''
 Lisa Caputo, who worked in the East Wing under Mrs. Clinton when she was first lady, said Ms. Rogers had weathered the hothouse glare of Washington with grace. ''She's done a fantastic job of opening the White House,'' Ms. Caputo said. 
 ''She was put in a position where the spotlight was put on her in a different way,'' Ms. Caputo added, ''coming in as someone who was not a Washingtonian, coming into a high-profile senior role and being the first African-American in that role. The combination of all three makes it not easy. I would venture to say she's had a larger mountain to climb.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Desiree Rogers drew criticism for her high profile as social secretary in the Obama White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANDEL NGAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
Desiree Rogers was a longtime friend of the Obamas and of Valerie Jarrett, a presidential adviser. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A cover that drew attention in the White House. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLOBE NEWSWIRE)
 Ms. Rogers with David Axelrod, who had called her on the carpet in part for her references in an article to the ''Obama brand.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); REALITY TELEVISION (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); DAVID AXELROD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



316 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Health Reform Myths

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Health reform is back from the dead. Many Democrats have realized that their electoral prospects will be better if they can point to a real accomplishment. Polling on reform -- which was never as negative as portrayed -- shows signs of improving. And I've been really impressed by the passion and energy of this guy Barack Obama. Where was he last year?
 But reform still has to run a gantlet of misinformation and outright lies. So let me address three big myths about the proposed reform, myths that are believed by many people who consider themselves well-informed, but who have actually fallen for deceptive spin. 
 The first of these myths, which has been all over the airwaves lately, is the claim that President Obama is proposing a government takeover of one-sixth of the economy, the share of G.D.P. currently spent on health.
 Well, if having the government regulate and subsidize health insurance is a ''takeover,'' that takeover happened long ago. Medicare, Medicaid, and other government programs already pay for almost half of American health care, while private insurance pays for barely more than a third (the rest is mostly out-of-pocket expenses). And the great bulk of that private insurance is provided via employee plans, which are both subsidized with tax exemptions and tightly regulated. 
 The only part of health care in which there isn't already a lot of federal intervention is the market in which individuals who can't get employment-based coverage buy their own insurance. And that market, in case you hadn't noticed, is a disaster -- no coverage for people with pre-existing medical conditions, coverage dropped when you get sick, and huge premium increases in the middle of an economic crisis. It's this sector, plus the plight of Americans with no insurance at all, that reform aims to fix. What's wrong with that?
 The second myth is that the proposed reform does nothing to control costs. To support this claim, critics point to reports by the Medicare actuary, who predicts that total national health spending would be slightly higher in 2019 with reform than without it.
 Even if this prediction were correct, it points to a pretty good bargain. The actuary's assessment of the Senate bill, for example, finds that it would raise total health care spending by less than 1 percent, while extending coverage to 34 million Americans who would otherwise be uninsured. That's a large expansion in coverage at an essentially trivial cost.
 And it gets better as we go further into the future: the Congressional Budget Office has just concluded, in a new report, that the arithmetic of reform will look better in its second decade than it did in its first.
 Furthermore, there's good reason to believe that all such estimates are too pessimistic. There are many cost-saving efforts in the proposed reform, but nobody knows how well any one of these efforts will work. And as a result, official estimates don't give the plan much credit for any of them. What the actuary and the budget office do is a bit like looking at an oil company's prospecting efforts, concluding that any individual test hole it drills will probably come up dry, and predicting as a consequence that the company won't find any oil at all -- when the odds are, in fact, that some of the test holes will pan out, and produce big payoffs. Realistically, health reform is likely to do much better at controlling costs than any of the official projections suggest.
 Which brings me to the third myth: that health reform is fiscally irresponsible. How can people say this given Congressional Budget Office predictions -- which, as I've already argued, are probably too pessimistic -- that reform would actually reduce the deficit? Critics argue that we should ignore what's actually in the legislation; when cost control actually starts to bite on Medicare, they insist, Congress will back down.
 But this isn't an argument against Obamacare, it's a declaration that we can't control Medicare costs no matter what. And it also flies in the face of history: contrary to legend, past efforts to limit Medicare spending have in fact ''stuck,'' rather than being withdrawn in the face of political pressure. 
 So what's the reality of the proposed reform? Compared with the Platonic ideal of reform, Obamacare comes up short. If the votes were there, I would much prefer to see Medicare for all.
 For a real piece of passable legislation, however, it looks very good. It wouldn't transform our health care system; in fact, Americans whose jobs come with health coverage would see little effect. But it would make a huge difference to the less fortunate among us, even as it would do more to control costs than anything we've done before.
 This is a reasonable, responsible plan. Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MEDICARE (88%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); LEGISLATION (64%); MEDICAID (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



317 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: A Growing Discontent

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
During the depths of the economic crisis last year, the prices for many goods held steady or even dropped. But on American farms, the picture was far different, as farmers watched the price they paid for seeds skyrocket. Corn seed prices rose 32 percent; soybean seeds were up 24 percent. 
 Such price increases for seeds -- the most important purchase a farmer makes each year -- are part of an unprecedented climb that began more than a decade ago, stemming from the advent of genetically engineered crops and the rapid concentration in the seed industry that accompanied it.
 The price increases have not only irritated many farmers, they have caught the attention of the Obama administration. The Justice Department began an antitrust investigation of the seed industry last year, with an apparent focus on Monsanto, which controls much of the market for the expensive bioengineered traits that make crops resistant to insect pests and herbicides. 
 The investigation is just one facet of a push by the Obama administration to take a closer look at competition -- or the lack thereof -- in agriculture, from the dairy industry to livestock to commodity crops, like corn and soybeans. 
 On Friday, as the spring planting season approaches, Eric H. Holder Jr., the attorney general, and Tom Vilsack, the agriculture secretary, will speak at the first of a series of public meetings aimed at letting farmers and industry executives voice their ideas. The meeting, in Ankeny, Iowa, will include a session on the seed industry.
 ''I think most farmers would look to have more competition in the industry,'' said Laura L. Foell, who raises corn and soybeans on 900 acres in Schaller, Iowa. 
 The Iowa attorney general, Tom Miller, has also been scrutinizing Monsanto's market dominance. The company's genetically engineered traits are in the vast majority of corn and soybeans grown in the United States, Mr. Miller said. ''That gives them considerable power, and questions arise about how that power is used,'' he said. 
 Critics charge that Monsanto has used license agreements with smaller seed companies to gain an unfair advantage over competitors and to block cheaper generic versions of its seeds from eventually entering the market. DuPont, a rival company, also claims Monsanto has unfairly barred it from combining biotech traits in a way that would benefit farmers. 
 In a recent interview at Monsanto's headquarters in St. Louis, its chief executive, Hugh Grant, said that while his company might be the market leader, competition was increasing as the era of biotech crops matured. 
 ''We were the first out of the blocks, and I think what you see now is a bunch of people catching up and aggressively competing, and I'm fighting with them,'' Mr. Grant said. He said farmers chose the company's products because they liked the results in the field, not because of any untoward conduct on Monsanto's part. 
 Yet in a seed market that Monsanto dominates, the jump in prices has been nothing short of stunning. 
 Including the sharp increases last year, Agriculture Department figures show that corn seed prices have risen 135 percent since 2001. Soybean prices went up 108 percent over that period. By contrast, the Consumer Price Index rose only 20 percent in that period. 
 Many farmers have been willing to pay a premium price because the genetically engineered seeds that make up most of the market come with advantages. Genetic modifications for both corn and soybeans make the crops resistant to herbicides, simplifying weed control and saving labor, fuel and machinery costs. Many genetically engineered corn and cotton seeds also resist insect pests, which cuts down on chemical spraying.
 Lee Quarles, a Monsanto spokesman, said the price increases were justified because the quality of the seeds had been going up, and new biotech traits kept being added. For example, he said, many corn varieties now include multiple genes to battle insect pests, raising their value. 
 Mr. Quarles said higher prices were justified because the traits saved farmers money and made their operations more efficient.
 Monsanto began investing heavily in biotechnology in the 1980s -- ahead of most other agricultural companies. In the mid-1990s, it became the first to widely market genetically engineered seeds for row crops, introducing soybeans containing the so-called Roundup Ready gene, which allowed plants to tolerate spraying of its popular Roundup weed killer. Soon after, it began selling corn seed engineered with a gene to resist insect pests. 
 The number of biotech plant traits has grown since then, and other large companies -- including DuPont, Dow Chemical, Syngenta, BASF and Bayer CropScience -- have gotten into the business. But Monsanto has taken advantage of its head start. Today more than 90 percent of soybeans and more than 80 percent of the corn grown in this country are genetically engineered. A majority of those crops contain one or more Monsanto genes. 
 As biotechnology has spread, Monsanto and its competitors have bought dozens of smaller seed companies, increasing the concentration of market power in the industry. 
 Monsanto sells its own branded seed varieties, like Dekalb in corn and Asgrow in soybeans, to farmers. But it has expanded its influence and profits by licensing those traits to hundreds of small seed companies, allowing them to incorporate the traits in the seeds they sell. It has also granted licenses to the other large trait developers, allowing them to create combinations of engineered traits in a process known as stacking. 
 Monsanto says that its licensing shows it is the opposite of a monopolist, encouraging rather than hampering competition.
 But critics say the licenses give Monsanto excessive control. Seed company executives said the licenses were sometimes worded in a way that compelled them to sell Monsanto traits over those of its competitors. Mr. Quarles denied that, saying the contracts contain sales incentives typical of the industry. 
 Some of the most pointed accusations have come in a court battle between Monsanto and DuPont. Last year Monsanto sued its rival, saying DuPont had used a Monsanto trait to create a gene combination that was not permitted in its licensing agreement. 
 DuPont countered by charging that Monsanto was using its market power to strong-arm competitors and quash innovation that would benefit farmers and consumers. 
 In January, Monsanto won a partial victory. A federal judge ruled that the license barred DuPont from creating the gene stack. But the judge said that DuPont could move ahead with its antitrust claims, which, if successful, could potentially nullify the stacking ban. 
 DuPont made another accusation that caught the attention of farmers and regulators, saying that Monsanto was trying to head off the eventual entry into the marketplace of generic Roundup Ready seeds. 
 The company's patent on the Roundup Ready trait in soybeans expires before the 2014 planting season, meaning that, just as in the pharmaceutical business, rivals would be free to sell a cheaper version. Farmers would also be free to save seed from one year to the next, a money-saving step they are now barred from taking. 
 But DuPont charged that Monsanto was trying to force seed companies to switch prematurely to its second-generation Roundup Ready soybeans and taking other steps to make the entry of generics more difficult. 
 Monsanto responded by announcing that it would not block companies from selling a generic version of Roundup Ready seeds. But farmers have continued to fret that cheaper generic seeds may be at risk. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS:Monsanto researchers in Stonington, Ill., are working to develop new soybean varieties that will be tolerant to agricultural herbicide and have greater yields. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONSANTO)
Hugh Grant, Monsanto chief,said competition was increasingas biotech crops matured. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM BOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) DRAWING
 CHART: SEED PRICES: Prices for corn and soybean seeds have risen sharply in recent years. More than 85 percent of both crops are now grown from genetically engineered seed. (Source: U.S.D.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (89%); SOYBEAN FARMING (89%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (89%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (78%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (76%); HERBICIDES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERVIEWS (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (50%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (92%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (92%)

PERSON: HUGH GRANT (MONSANTO) (77%); BARACK OBAMA (68%); TOM VILSACK (57%); ERIC HOLDER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



318 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 12, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: A New Chapter for Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By RONALD MANN. 
Ronald Mann is a professor of law at Columbia.

 BODY:
THE Obama administration introduced a plan this week to encourage defaulting homeowners to sell their houses at a loss, the latest in a long line of reform packages promising to break the logjam of underwater mortgages. But without major changes to the bankruptcy system, such measures won't aid the American families torn apart by the economic upheavals of the last two years.
 To date, our bankruptcy courts have done little to help the millions of people swimming in debt. Almost 5 percent of mortgage loans are now in foreclosure, an increase of more than 85 percent since the beginning of 2008, and more than 10 percent of credit card accounts are delinquent. Yet bankruptcy filings for the first two months of this year are only 1.5 times what they were two years ago. And even after that increase, current filing levels are far below those in the first half of this decade. 
 The problem is that our bankruptcy system is too difficult and expensive for the people who use it. The system has always been complicated, but in 2005 Congress made things worse by changing the rules to make it harder for bankrupt people to avoid paying their outstanding bills. Now that the recession has exposed the flaws of the system, Congress should go back to the drawing board and drastically simplify the bankruptcy system.
 At the heart of the existing process is a strategic choice between liquidation under Chapter 7 or rehabilitation under Chapter 13. Under Chapter 7, households give up all of their nonessential assets (as determined by the law of the state where they live), but pay nothing out of any future income to clear their debts; those debts are simply erased. Under Chapter 13, households make payments out of future income, but are more likely to retain their homes and automobiles.
 The 2005 reforms, driven by an exaggerated concern that debtors might game the system, instituted a series of paper-intensive procedural safeguards. All debtors must produce documents that estimate potential increases in expenses or income during the year to come, a monthly net income statement and a complex ''means test calculation'' that certifies expenditures in a large number of specific, carefully defined categories. 
 The result is a lawyer- and paperwork-centered system in which the families most in need of quick relief wait months to save up for the filing costs and attorneys' fees necessary to file a bankruptcy petition. Although total expenses vary a great deal, the statutory filing fees are now almost $300 and lawyer's fees alone average more than $1,000. 
 Congress's 2005 reforms also directly discouraged filings under Chapter 7 (the option typically used by people with few assets) and encouraged filings under Chapter 13 (the traditional procedure for homeowners). 
 If the bankruptcy system was doing its job, the mortgage-driven financial crisis should then have led to a sharp increase in filings under Chapter 13. Homeowners unable to keep up with their mortgages should have been able to file for relief under Chapter 13, resolve their problems and move on with their lives. Yet the share of Chapter 13 filings fell in 2009 to only 28 percent of all filings, from 42 percent in 2006. 
 That's another perverse result of the 2005 reforms: Chapter 13 does not let people avert foreclosure by paying the actual value of their homes, even when their bubble-era mortgages far exceed realistic market prices. In fact, a ''special rule'' for home mortgages allows lenders to prevent normal bankruptcy relief for borrowers. Thus, the reforms created a system that makes it harder to file for Chapter 7 while doing nothing to make Chapter 13, once the savior of homeowners, useful in this sort of mortgage crisis. 
 Under a sensible bankruptcy system, households in severe financial distress ought to be able to discharge their debts if they are willing to do two simple things: turn over all assets and make payments out of future income, to the extent that either exceeds a low and nationally uniform threshold. If debtors wanted to keep assets against which they have borrowed, they should have to pay the fair value of the assets, but nothing more. 
 A rational bankruptcy system would also scrap the separate chapters altogether, along with the complicated paperwork now required to document and justify the chapter choice in each particular case. There would be simple, separate tracks automatically determined by each family's financial position. Families with no substantial income or assets -- the great majority of bankrupt households -- should face a process as simple as filing a 1040EZ tax form. 
 The debtor would provide the most basic identifying information (name, address and Social Security number); current information about salary and nonsalary income (rents, royalties, dividends and the like); and a list of debts owed on houses, cars, credit cards or other arrangements. 
 The form also would require disclosure of assets broken down by simple categories, permitting the typical debtor to check boxes indicating, for example, that he had less than $1,000 in household assets or less than $500 in financial assets, and renouncing claim to any other assets. This document could be completed without the assistance of legal counsel. All unsecured debts would then be wiped out in a matter of days without further hearings or judicial procedure.
 Like taxpayers with more complicated financial affairs, debtors with mortgages, car loans or income and assets they wish to protect would need to fill out more detailed forms to allow a reasoned determination of the assets and income they should turn over to their creditors. A legal process and judicial supervision would be appropriate to assess the debtor's responsibility in cases where creditors can expect borrowers to make payments. 
 It might seem that this proposal does little more than substitute a new two-tiered system for the two-chapter system we now have. But the existing system lets borrowers choose between payment plans based on their strategic interests, and requires wasteful paperwork in all cases, just so the courts can limit the abusive potential of that choice. 
 The new system would eliminate debtor choice and state-by-state variation, make distinctions based only on income and asset holdings and, in the overwhelming majority of cases, drastically truncate paperwork and process. Most important, it would lower the counterproductive obstacles to filing for bankruptcy. 
 Such a bold reshaping of the bankruptcy system would provide Americans immediate respite from crushing debt and the ceaseless emotional and financial pressure that comes with it. Then they could turn their attention to finding new jobs, moving into housing they can afford and caring for their families.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (95%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US CHAPTER 13 BANKRUPTCY (89%); FAMILY (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); PETITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); CREDIT CARDS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010



319 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Effort to Widen Internet Access Sets Up Battle

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER and JENNA WORTHAM

 BODY:
The Federal Communications Commission is proposing an ambitious 10-year plan that will reimagine the nation's media and technology priorities by establishing high-speed Internet as the country's dominant communication network. 
 The plan, which will be submitted to Congress on Tuesday, is likely to generate debate in Washington and a lobbying battle among the telecommunication giants, which over time may face new competition for customers. Already, the broadcast television industry is resisting a proposal to give back spectrum the government wants to use for future mobile service.
 The blueprint reflects the government's view that broadband Internet is becoming the common medium of the United States, gradually displacing the telephone and broadcast television industries. It also signals a shift at the F.C.C., which under the administration of President George W. Bush gained more attention for policing indecency on the television airwaves than for promoting Internet access. 
 According to F.C.C. officials briefed on the plan, the commission's recommendations will include a subsidy for Internet providers to wire rural parts of the country now without access, a controversial auction of some broadcast spectrum to free up space for wireless devices, and the development of a new universal set-top box that connects to the Internet and cable service. 
 The effort will influence billions of dollars in federal spending, although the F.C.C. will argue that the plan should pay for itself through the spectrum auctions. Some recommendations will require Congressional action and industry support, and will affect users only years from now. 
 Still, ''each bullet point will trigger its own tortuous battle,'' said Craig Moffett, a senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
 For much of the last year, Julius Genachowski, the F.C.C. chairman and the plan's chief salesman, has laid the groundwork for the Congressionally mandated plan by asserting that the United States is lagging far behind other countries in broadband adoption and speed. About a third of Americans have no access to high-speed Internet service, cannot afford it or choose not to have it.
 In a speech last month, Mr. Genachowski observed that the country could build state-of-the-art computers and applications, but without equivalent broadband wiring, ''it would be like having the technology for great electric cars, but terrible roads.'' 
 The plan envisions a fully Web-connected world with split-second access to health care information and online classrooms, delivered through wireless devices yet to be dreamed up in Silicon Valley. But to get there, analysts say the F.C.C. must tread carefully with companies like Comcast and AT&T that largely control Internet pricing and speeds. Already, there are questions about the extent to which the F.C.C. has jurisdiction over Internet providers.
 The F.C.C. says it can make some important changes on its own. They include reforms to the Universal Service Fund, which spends $8 billion a year from telephone surcharges to ensure that rural and poor people have phone lines at home. It also supplies Internet access to schools, libraries and rural clinics.
 By reducing the phone subsidies over time, the fund could instead ''support broadband access and affordability,'' especially in remote locations where private companies have little incentive to build networks, said Colin Crowell, a senior counselor to Mr. Genachowski.
 In recent weeks, the most-talked-about idea in the television industry has been a voluntary auction of over-the-air spectrum for future mobile broadband uses. In total, the F.C.C. is hoping to free up roughly 500 megahertz of spectrum, much of which would come from television broadcasters, which would be compensated if Congress acts. 
 The proposal already faces resistance from the TV industry. Stations say they still serve a valuable public service, especially during emergencies, and say the F.C.C. proposals could cause gaps in signal coverage.
 But F.C.C. officials assert that the spectrum changes are necessary given a looming spectrum shortage. ''It isn't a crisis tomorrow, it's a crisis in five or six years,'' Mr. Crowell said, but allocation ''literally takes years.'' 
 The plan will advise that some of the spectrum become unlicensed, so it can serve as a test bed for new technologies. 
 Also notably, the plan will include an initiative the chairman calls 100 Squared -- equipping 100 million households with high-speed Internet gushing through their pipes at 100 megabits a second by the end of this decade. According to comScore, the average subscriber now receives speeds of three to four megabits a second.
 The government is ''setting a stake in the ground by setting a standard for broadband speeds in order to be a competitive nation,'' said Dan Hays, director of PRTM, a global management consulting firm in the telecommunications industry.
 He said the plan could place ''significant pressure'' on incumbent providers to improve their networks.
 Mr. Genachowski also argues that broadband expansion can be an economic stimulant, a crucial selling point in a time of high unemployment. ''Broadband will be the indispensable platform to assure American competitiveness, ongoing job creation and innovation, and will affect nearly every aspect of Americans' lives at home, at work, and in their communities,'' he said Friday. 
 According to officials briefed on the proposals, the plan will also call for a ''digital literacy corps'' to help unwired Americans learn online skills, and recommendations for $12 billion to $16 billion for a nationwide public safety network that would connect police, fire departments and other first responders.
 In a move that could affect policy decisions years from now, the F.C.C. will begin assessing the speeds and costs of consumer broadband service. Until then, consumers can take matters into their own hands with a new suite of online and mobile phone applications released by the F.C.C. that will allow them to test the speed of their home Internet and see if they're paying for data speeds as advertised.
 ''Once again, the F.C.C. is putting service providers on the spot,'' said Julien Blin, a telecommunications consultant at JBB Research.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); BROADBAND (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); WIRELESS REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); AUCTIONS (75%); JURISDICTION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (68%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (57%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (66%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%)

PERSON: JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



320 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Women Making Gains On Faculty at Harvard

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
Five years after Lawrence H. Summers, then the president of Harvard University, suggested that innate differences might explain why women are less successful in science and math careers than men, Harvard is, in some ways, a different place.
 Professors can get up to $20,000 to help pay for child care, there are new programs to encourage young women to pursue science and research careers, and seven of the 16 members of Harvard's Council of Deans are now women. 
 ''This is not your father's Harvard,'' said Martha Minow, dean of the law school. 
 In the furor over his remarks, Dr. Summers -- now the senior economic adviser to President Obama -- resigned and was replaced by Drew Gilpin Faust, the first woman to lead the university.
 Universitywide, slightly more than a quarter of Harvard faculty members are women, an all-time high, with the senior faculty accounting for most of the increase. Women also lead the engineering school, the law school, the education school, Harvard College and the Radcliffe Institute. And while Harvard extended 4 of its 32 tenure offers to women in the year before Dr. Summers's speech, last year, tenure offers went to 16 women and 25 men.
 Since Dr. Summers's resignation in 2006, Harvard has also poured millions of dollars into child care centers and family-friendly programs for the faculty -- including research-enabling grants that let junior faculty members take their babies and nannies on field trips. 
 But Harvard has changed in another way, too: Its endowment has lost $11 billion. And with budget cuts now high on the agenda, Dr. Faust acknowledged that changes might be coming in its spending on such programs.
 ''This was a pilot, an experiment, described as that,'' she said. ''We're collecting data on what works best, and still thinking that through.''
 Then, too, with the faculty expected to shrink slightly in coming years, bringing in more women will be more difficult. 
 In his now-infamous remarks, at a conference in January 2005, Dr. Summers said ''there are issues of intrinsic aptitude, and particularly of the variability of aptitude,'' which he said are reinforced by ''lesser factors involving socialization and continuing discrimination.'' 
 Today, there is little eagerness at Harvard to discuss the Summers incident. Two top scientists, Cynthia M. Friend, the former head of the chemistry department, and Barbara J. Grosz, who led a task force on women in science after Dr. Summers's speech, declined to be interviewed.
 At Harvard, as at most American research universities, math and science remain male domains. The math department's first tenured woman, Sophie Morel, arrived just three months ago. The department admitted two female graduate students this year and none last year. 
 When Lauren K. Williams was offered a math lectureship shortly after Dr. Summers's remarks, she said she asked repeatedly whether it was because of her gender, and was reassured that it was not. But with women so scarce, a cloud of suspicion was there. 
 ''Shortly after I started my position at Harvard, another mathematician asked me: 'Why did Harvard hire you? Did they want a girl?' '' said Dr. Williams, who has since left Harvard for a tenure-track position at the University of California, Berkeley. 
 The earth and planetary sciences department tenured its first woman, Ann Pearson, this year. In physics and chemistry, female professors are still few. 
 ''Different departments are at different points,'' said Elena M. Kramer, a biology professor. ''In biology, where women earn half the Ph.D.'s, it's not so hard to hire women. You don't need any hand-wringing; if you're doing a good search, you'll get women. In physics, we need to work on getting more young women into the field as undergraduates.'' 
 Given the overlap between the biological clock and the tenure clock, helping more women into senior academic positions is especially difficult at Harvard, where tenure is unusually slow, coming only with promotion to full professor. Also, Harvard has long been known for recruiting outsiders to senior positions, rather than promoting junior faculty members. 
 ''Harvard has been shifting in recent years, bringing people in earlier and promoting them from assistant professor to associate and tenure,'' Dr. Faust said. ''We believe in the tenure track and we're drawing on a different pool now. It's a culture shift.'' 
 But reputations are difficult to change.
 ''Our biggest challenge is this misperception that Harvard doesn't tenure its own junior faculty,'' Dr. Kramer said. ''And because many of our wonderful senior faculty women came up in the '70s and '80s and don't have families, some young women who know they want families might look at them and say, 'I don't want that kind of life' and take themselves out of the pipeline.'' 
 Two task forces that Dr. Summers appointed after his remarks -- on women in the faculty and women in science and engineering -- recommended most of Harvard's new programs, plus the appointment of a senior official to oversee them. That official, Judith D. Singer, tracks both women and minorities as they move up the tenure ladder. 
 ''The sea change is that we actually have a tenure track now,'' Dr. Singer said. ''We are increasingly promoting from within, and 36 percent of the junior-ladder faculty are women. Senior faculty is hard to change, because 95 percent of them were here last year, so it's mostly a function of who you bring in. And there is still an old guard, to be honest, for whom this is not a priority.'' 
 Howard Georgi, former chairman of the physics department, remembers being struck years ago by how differently men and women responded to a survey of satisfaction among physics majors. 
 ''The men loved it and the women hated it, and because there were more men than women, and we'd never before broken down by gender, we'd looked like we were doing O.K.,'' Dr. Georgi said.
 ''Women who concentrate in the field are happier now,'' he added, ''but there hasn't been a dramatic change in the numbers coming in, and that's a little frustrating and puzzling.'' 
 Does having a woman as Harvard's president make a difference? 
 ''I don't think so,'' Dr. Georgi said, adding, ''but maybe not having Larry. ...''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Drew Gilpin Faust, Harvard's president, has seen a culture shift, but conceded that budget cuts could have an impact now. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Lawrence H. Summers, now a White House adviser, resigned from Harvard in 2006. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHITOSE SUZUKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CHILD CARE (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); FAMILY (77%); CHILDREN (77%); MATHEMATICS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CHEMISTRY (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%); DREW GILPIN FAUST (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



321 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Violations Are Cited In Generics

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
As American consumers increasingly turn to generic drugs as a way to reduce their medical costs, the continued manufacturing problems of one generic maker stand out.
 That company, the Indian drug maker Ranbaxy Laboratories, has run afoul of the Food and Drug Administration over the last two years for manufacturing violations at two of its plants in India. But now the company is under the spotlight for significant violations at a factory in the United States: Ohm Laboratories in Gloversville, N.Y., a Ranbaxy-owned plant that makes oral medications.
 Ohm failed to properly investigate quality-control problems at the plant, including black particles found in a bottle of metformin oral solution, a diabetes drug, and floating cardboard particles found in batches of ranitidine solution, an ulcer drug, according to a report the F.D.A. posted on its Web site Thursday. 
 The Gloversville plant also failed to test an adequate number of each drug product, failed to train employees in certain procedures required by good manufacturing regulations, and failed to notify regulators of product problems in a timely fashion, the inspection report said. 
 ''There are no written procedures for production and process controls designed to assure that the drug products have the identity, strength, quality, purity they purport or are represented to possess,'' regulators wrote in the report.
 Federal inspectors had cited Ohm for violations found at the Gloversville plant last summer. But the report was not released until Thursday's posting on the F.D.A.'s Web site, after The New York Times filed a document request under the Freedom of Information Act. Responding to a reporter's query on Thursday, a Ranbaxy spokesman, Krishnan Ramalingam, e-mailed a news release that the company had issued last December. 
 The release said the company had retained a consulting firm to advise it on issues cited by the F.D.A. at the Ohm plant. It also said that Ohm Laboratories operated two plants other than the Gloversville facility and that those made most of the products the company supplied in the United States. 
 Although Ranbaxy is a relatively small player in the United States generic market, it nonetheless accounted for 29 million prescriptions in this country last year, according to IMS Health, an industry research company.
 The F.D.A. has periodically cited generic and name-brand drug makers for manufacturing or quality-control issues. That includes a warning letter sent earlier this year to McNeil Consumer Healthcare, a unit of Johnson & Johnson, for failure to adequately investigate and notify regulators about consumer complaints of a moldy smell emanating from some Tylenol bottles. McNeil has recalled some lots of Tylenol and other over-the-counter products.
 Gary J. Buehler, the director of the F.D.A.'s office of generic drugs, said in a phone interview Friday that the agency's review, approval and inspection processes ensured that generics available in the United States were of high quality. Consumers, he said, should not judge the entire industry by agency actions taken against one company.
 ''Would the action against Johnson & Johnson give you pause to question Pfizer or Merck's quality?'' Mr. Buehler said. ''Each generic company is separate and, just because one had a recall, it doesn't mean they are all bad or that they have all fallen into an abyss.''
 In 2008, the F.D.A. cited Ranbaxy for manufacturing violations at two of its facilities -- in Dewas and Paonta Sahib, India. The agency also barred the import into the United States of more than 30 drug products made at those sites. And last year, after federal regulators determined that one of the plants falsified data and test results, the agency stopped reviewing new or pending drug approval applications from that plant, pending corrective action by Ranbaxy.
 Deborah M. Autor, the director of compliance for the F.D.A.'s center for drug evaluation and research, said on Friday that the agency was troubled by Ranbaxy's overall record of manufacturing and data integrity problems.
 ''We will continue to focus on this company until we are fully satisfied with the quality of its drugs and the integrity of its data,'' Ms. Autor said in an e-mail message sent in response to a reporter's query. ''Companies have a responsibility to patients to ensure that their drugs are safe, effective and high quality.''
 Ranbaxy is not alone among generic drug makers subjected to federal scrutiny. 
 In a presentation at the generics conference last month, Randall Stanicky, a vice president of global investment research at Goldman Sachs, noted that the agency had cited a handful of smaller generic makers in 2008 and 2009 for manufacturing and quality-control violations. As a result of such problems among a few smaller generic makers, he said, larger generic makers have gained market share in the United States. 
 The leaders in generic drugs in this country, by prescriptions sold, include Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, Mylan and Watson Pharmaceuticals, according to IMS Health.
 Ranbaxy's small share of the United States market has declined as its manufacturing problems have mounted. Its 29 million prescriptions last year, representing 1.1 percent of the market in the United States, were down 41 percent from the previous year, IMS said. 
 Marah Binder, a spokeswoman for Daiichi Sankyo, a Japanese drug maker that bought a controlling interest in Ranbaxy in 2008, said on Friday that the Japanese company took manufacturing quality seriously and was committed to working with the F.D.A. to resolve any outstanding issues.
 Daiichi Sankyo and Ranbaxy executives have put together a joint task force to make sure quality-control systems are in place and will improve, she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scientist at a Ranbaxy research center in Gurgaon, India. One of the firm's American plants has been cited for quality control and other violations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERIC DRUGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); QUALITY CONTROL (75%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (72%); INTERVIEWS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); WEB SITES (68%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (65%); DIABETES (54%)

COMPANY: RANBAXY LABORATORIES LTD (94%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (61%); IMS HEALTH INC (52%); MCNEIL CONSUMER HEALTH CARE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%)

TICKER: RANBAXY (NSE) (94%); JNJ (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (94%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (61%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



322 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Despite Snowstorms, U.S. Retail Sales Grew 0.3% in February

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
February was hardly an ideal month for retailers: snowstorms blanketed many parts of the country, and car dealerships faced an uproar over safety concerns. 
 But sales for the month rose solidly, the government reported Friday, raising hopes that the economy would benefit from more robust spending.
 The Commerce Department said retail sales increased 0.3 percent from January, much better than the 0.2 percent decline Wall Street analysts had forecast. When volatile car and gasoline sales were excluded, the gain was even stronger, 0.9 percent. 
 ''The consumer continues to come out of its shell after the shell shock of the recession,'' said Alan Levenson, an economist at T. Rowe Price. ''Employment is falling more slowly, wages are growing modestly and hours worked are expanding, giving a lift to incomes.''
 As the labor market improves, economists expect consumer spending to rise slowly, though probably not at a pace adequate to lead the economy out of its downturn. 
 A separate report on Friday highlighted the timidity of the American consumer. The University of Michigan's barometer of sentiment fell to 72.5 in the first part of the month, far below the historical average of 86.5 and prerecession levels of 78.4.
 A more potent source of growth may be inventory restocking, economists say. But stockpiles remained flat in January, according to a separate Commerce Department report, falling short of analysts' prediction of a slight increase. Still a resurgence in inventories is expected over the next several months, and that could help sustain the recovery.
 ''The weaker they are now, the more potential they have,'' James F. O'Sullivan, chief economist for MF Global, said. ''We haven't used up all the stimulus from inventories yet.''
 Retail sales were up across the board: electronics gained 3.7 percent, clothing increased 0.6 percent, and building materials rose 0.5 percent. Even restaurants and bars, which economists said they believed would be most severely affected by snowy weather, noticed an increase, with sales rising 0.9 percent.
 Car sales, which fell 2 percent, were most likely hurt by weather and concerns over the safety of some Toyota vehicles. Toyota was in the midst of a crisis last month as it tried to fix defects in some of its vehicles and deal with worries that its cars were unsafe. Toyota estimated sales fell 9 percent in February.
 Analysts had expected the unusual weather, mainly on the East Coast, to take a toll on sales. The February numbers were strong in part because the government revised the January data to indicate weaker sales -- the gain for the month was 0.1 percent, rather than the 0.5 percent originally reported. Sales have increased for four of the last five months and are on track for a 5.8 percent annual rate of growth.
 The surprise gain underscored a sense that spending habits were changing. The amount of money Americans kept in their savings accounts fell in January, and consumer borrowing increased for the first time in a year. 
 But high unemployment and large debt burdens continue to constrain household spending.
 It is also unclear when the labor market will reach a turning point, with the economy still shedding jobs each month. The barometer of consumer sentiment showed that Americans were nervous about their present financial situations in early March, with the country's unemployment rate stuck at 9.7 percent.
 ''We remain concerned that consumers will stay on the sidelines during this economic recovery,'' said a research note from Capital Economics in Toronto. ''Weak jobs growth, low wages growth and tight credit mean that any further acceleration in consumption growth is unlikely.''
 Despite those pressures, a report last week showed that the country's stores posted their strongest results since late 2007, with nearly every major chain showing robust increases.
 Friday's retail sales report, which included results from discount stores like Wal-Mart in addition to traditional chain stores, showed an increase of 1 percent in sales for general merchandise stores.
 After plowing forward at an annual rate of 5.9 percent in the third quarter, economic growth is expected to slow in the months ahead. Economists predict first-quarter growth of 2 or 3 percent, but that will largely depend on the strength of sales and the size of inventories. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sales for general merchandise stores, including discount stores like this Wal-Mart in Tallahassee, Fla., rose 1 percent in February. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHIL COALE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Retail Sales: Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted.
 Inventory-Sales Ratio: Total month-end business inventories divided by total monthly business sales, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%); RECESSION (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%)

COMPANY: MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



323 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: The Age of Concrete

BYLINE: By BLAINE BROWNELL. 
Blaine Brownell, the author of ''Transmaterial: A Catalog of Materials that Redefine our Physical Environment,'' is an assistant professor at the University of Minnesota School of Architecture.

DATELINE: Minneapolis 

 BODY:
 COME April, the first tenants may finally be able to move into Dubai's Burj Khalifa, now the tallest building in the world. Despite a series of setbacks since its ostensible opening two months ago, including the closing of the observation deck, the tower has already prompted an exuberant proliferation of record-breaking statistics: it soars more than half a mile high, stands twice the height of the Empire State Building, boasts views that reach 60 miles, etc. But all the hoopla misses two other symbolic milestones that should enliven the history books. Namely, the Burj Khalifa is primarily residential and its structural frame is reinforced concrete. 
 Why are these two facts so important? The pursuit of maximum altitude is a major technological undertaking, requiring extraordinary economic investment, significant innovations in materials and a high tolerance for risk; as we survey the monuments of architectural history, tall structures provide remarkable insights about the aspirations of the societies that created them. 
 Think back to the Middle Ages. The soaring cathedrals of Notre-Dame de Paris and Chartres were awe-inspiring landmarks in stone. Gothic churches maximized the structural capacity of available materials, transforming heavy rock into delicate, lofted skeletons enclosing voluminous spaces. Pilgrims to these edifices would no doubt have been awed by their apparent defiance of gravity, and moved by the breathtaking spiritual power conveyed by the churches' vast, light-pierced interiors.
 Under construction from 1192 to 1311, Lincoln Cathedral in England was considered the first building to exceed the height of the Great Pyramid at Giza. After the partial destruction of the previous cathedral by an earthquake in 1185, the bishop of Lincoln, St. Hugh, had ordered a colossal rebuilding of the structure in local oolitic limestone, making full use of recent engineering innovations like flying buttresses and pointed arches.
 The cathedral's master builder also experimented heavily with ribbed vaulting; so-called crazy vaults were extended upward like delicate palm fronds at a dizzying height. This architecture was perfectly matched to its use, with stone transfigured into filigree that enclosed a sublime sanctuary. It was the world's tallest building for two and a half centuries, until its central spire collapsed in 1549.
 Now jump to the threshold of the 20th century. With the complementary technological developments of the steel frame and elevator, the ability to stack floor plates at heights inconceivable in stone constituted an explosive return on land investment. 
 For the first time, the tallest buildings in town were no longer churches. The skyscrapers that shot up in Chicago and New York were ''cathedrals of commerce,'' abounding in office space and brimming with enterprising workers. 
 The Empire State Building was constructed at a breakneck pace -- 410 days -- in order to beat the Chrysler Building and 40 Wall Street for the title of tallest building in the world. When the skyscraper opened in 1931, it was a sensational and unprecedented marriage of steel and commerce, and it would retain its title as tallest for four decades. Its two million square feet of office space still accommodate about 21,000 employees working for 1,000 companies; the tower has its own ZIP code. 
 So what of the marvel recently constructed in the Middle East? 
 From a technological standpoint, it's profoundly impressive that a reinforced concrete frame has outperformed the steel of Taipei 101 -- the previous record holder for height -- by 1,050 feet. This achievement suggests a new era in structural engineering: the compressive strength of concrete has tripled in the last four decades, allowing concrete structures to be thinner, lighter and far, far taller. 
 Also notable is the fact that the world's tallest building is dedicated entirely to opulent residences and various retail, entertainment and commercial functions. The Burj Khalifa amounts to a kind of vertical city for the affluent. 
 Because the Burj Khalifa has arrived as the global economy lies smoldering in ruins, it's tempting to view it as an exceptional antique, the product of a culture that's already disappeared. But new highs in architecture don't always coincide with the health of the market -- the Empire State Building was, of course, built during the Depression. And great innovations in materials and structures have the power to endure, regardless of the circumstances under which they were born. 
 If one society worshiped God in stone, and another venerated enterprise in steel, it must say something that we have now been able to reach so high with our most common building material: concrete.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOSH COCHRAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); ENGINEERING (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HISTORY (75%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); EARTHQUAKES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



324 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: As the Budget Ax Swings Again, There May Be No Way to Avoid the Pain

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It is the job of New York's social services workers to insist that the sky is falling.
 Every year, it seems, the politicians eliminate financing for services that tend to the youngest, the oldest, the poorest New Yorkers. And every year, after the various nonprofit do-gooders have urged, cajoled and done everything they could to make grown public servants weep, the City Council or the State Legislature or Congress reinstates much of the money, all of it part of a process known around town as the budget dance.
 Disaster, like clockwork, is averted. Young people in public housing projects have a productive place to hang out after school. Low-income working parents have a safe place to leave their preschoolers. The frail and the elderly make their way to a free, healthful meal at a community center. The small mercies that make a teeming city livable -- a place we can live in, a place we can live with -- continue. 
 But this year, it seems all too clear that the boy really is eye to eye with the wolf. The beat of the budget dance is expected to feel more like that of a budget dirge, and the do-gooders are mystified and shell-shocked by the proposed state and city budgets. 
 ''I don't know who's freaking out more: those of us in the social services world watching the dollars fly out the window, or elected officials,'' said Susan Stamler, the director of policy and advocacy at the United Neighborhood Houses of New York, a membership organization for the city's community centers. ''If they could plug those holes, they would -- but there's no way out. I can't tell them where to get the dollars.'' 
 No new federal stimulus package is coming to the rescue, as happened last year; there are only budget holes, more and more of which, at the state level in particular, keep opening or widening every day (witness the failed Aqueduct deal and the ill-fated soda tax).
 New Yorkers might want to get out the earplugs: the sound of the other shoe dropping is about to reverberate throughout the city. 
 Wall Streeters may be rebounding nicely from the recession that their bad judgment sparked, but everyone else is bracing, with these cuts, for a whole new kind of pain. It's an old story that Main Street unemployment continues long after the banks start hiring again. What's new is that so many of the services that take the edge off of unemployment, poverty or standard-issue penny-pinching are about to dwindle, and noticeably so.
 On the block are some valued city toys, as well as the crutches that keep things moving. Among the gems at risk of budget cuts are some prenatal care services in neighborhoods like East Harlem, via the Maternity and Early Childhood Foundation; morning hours at Riverbank State Park, at West 145th Street, that allow young people of every income level to participate in a rare public ice hockey program; two weeks of public pool time (tantamount to eliminating two weeks of summer itself); and affordable tickets to plays, concerts and museums, subsidized by the Department of Cultural Affairs. 
 ''Whether it's a small children's theater in Brooklyn or a major arts institution, everyone's going to have to cut either programming or raise prices,'' said Norma Munn, chairwoman of the New York City Arts Coalition, an advocacy group. ''I'm talking across the board.'' 
 Advocates are sweating the real possibility that close to 25 percent of the financing for shelters for single adults will be cut -- which, they say, could flood the streets with homeless people or ''transform service-providing shelters into people warehouses,'' as Mark Hurwitz of Project Renewal, which provides services to the homeless, put it. 
 Social services providers are also fighting to hold on to 17,000 after-school program slots and tens of thousands of summer jobs for disadvantaged youths who would otherwise go unemployed. 
 The Wall Street types resisting taxes on their bonuses, or a renewed stock-transfer tax, might think twice when they consider what a generation of underemployed and underoccupied young people, combined with the proposed significant cuts to the police force, could do to the already dwindling values of their classic sevens. 
 ''Yes, we've cried wolf in the past, but this year you really have to believe us,'' said Greg Rideout, a deputy program officer at the Henry Street Settlement, a community center on the Lower East Side. But the challenge is not believing there's a problem; it's solving it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A program operated by the Little Sisters of the Assumption Family Health Service has benefited mothers like this one, but it may be lost in state cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



325 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Hard Times for Retirees

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Adjusting to Reality,'' by Alicia H. Munnell and Andrew G. Biggs (Op-Ed, March 8), opposing a proposed onetime $250 payment to Social Security recipients to make up for the lack of a cost-of-living adjustment this year. 
 The article demonstrates the inadequacy of using textbook economics to discuss the actual experiences of real people. By arguing -- despite the biggest economic downturn since the Great Depression -- that ''retirees did all right over the last few years,'' the authors demonstrate a lack of understanding of the negative impact of decimated retirement savings on older Americans.
 We would encourage them to talk with our members, who tell us that, even with low inflation, retirees can't afford to pay for increasing health costs or for their prescription drugs. Many spend close to a third of their income on health care every year, which means they sometimes can't afford other necessities. Retirees lost equity in their homes and have less time for their retirement accounts to recover.
 AARP is urging Congress to help by providing these seniors with $250 in emergency relief to make ends meet. And by spending the money, they'll help stimulate the economy. It's the right -- and smart -- thing to do.
 Tom Nelson Chief Operating Officer, AARP Washington, March 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AGING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



326 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Seeking a Big Tent, Tea Party Avoids Divisive Social Issues

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
For decades, faith and family have been at the center of the conservative movement. But as the Tea Party infuses conservatism with new energy, its leaders deliberately avoid discussion of issues like gay marriage or abortion.
 God, life and family get little if any mention in statements or manifestos. The motto of the Tea Party Patriots, a large coalition of groups, is ''fiscal responsibility, limited government, and free markets.'' The Independence Caucus questionnaire, which many Tea Party groups use to evaluate candidates, poses 80 questions, most on the proper role of government, tax policy and the federal budgeting process, and virtually none on social issues. 
 The Contract From America, which is being created Wiki-style by Internet contributors as a manifesto of what ''the people'' want government to do, also mentions little in the way of social issues, beyond a declaration that parents should be given choice in how to educate their children. By contrast, the document it aims to improve upon -- the Contract With America, which Republicans used to market their successful campaign to win a majority in Congress in 1994 -- was prefaced with the promise that the party would lead a Congress that ''respects the values and shares the faith of the American family.'' 
 Tea Party leaders argue that the country can ill afford the discussion about social issues when it is passing on enormous debts to future generations. But the focus is also strategic: leaders think they can attract independent voters if they stay away from divisive issues. 
 ''We should be creating the biggest tent possible around the economic conservative issue,'' said Ryan Hecker, the organizer behind the Contract From America. ''I think social issues may matter to particular individuals, but at the end of the day, the movement should be agnostic about it. This is a movement that rose largely because of the Republican Party failing to deliver on being representative of the economic conservative ideology. To include social issues would be beside the point.'' 
 As the Tea Party pushes to change the Republican Party, the purity they demand of candidates may have more to do with economic conservatism than social conservatism. Some Tea Party groups, for instance, have declined to endorse J. D. Hayworth, who has claimed the mantle of a fiscal conservative, in the Republican Senate primary in Arizona. But these groups find his record in Congress no more fiscally responsible than the man he seeks to oust, John McCain. 
 The Tea Party defines economic conservatism more strictly than most Republicans in Congress would -- the Tea Party agrees about the need to do away with earmarks, but the Contract, for example, also includes a proposal to scrap the tax code and replace it with one no longer than 4,543 words (a number chosen to match the length of the Constitution, unamended.) It would limit the growth of federal spending to inflation plus the percentage of population growth and require a two-thirds majority for any tax increase.
 Social issues still pack a wallop: a group of Democrats opposed to abortion rights could determine the fate of health care legislation in the House. And Republicans at the Conservative Political Action Conference last month, while celebrating the Tea Party for energizing their movement, spent much of their time talking about banning gay marriage and overturning Roe v. Wade. ''God's in charge,'' Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota told a cheering crowd.
 Tea Party leaders themselves have found it hard to keep the issues out. The inaugural Tea Party convention, organized by the social networking site Tea Party Nation, featured remarks by fervent opponents of gay marriage and abortion rights, including the Baptist pastor Rick Scarborough And some leaders criticized Sarah Palin -- normally a Tea Party favorite -- for advocating ''divine intervention'' to help the country.
 Jenny Beth Martin, the leader of the Tea Party Patriots, complained that she spent the days after the convention answering questions about social issues. 
 ''When people ask about them, we say, 'Go get involved in other organizations that already deal with social issues very well,' '' she said. ''We have to be diligent and stay on message.''
 Many Tea Party members do embrace those issues. The subset of Tea Party organizations known as 9/12 groups, founded by Glenn Beck, asks members to embrace seven of nine principles, the second of which is ''I believe in God and he is the center of my life.'' 
 Some experts, like Lisa McGirr, a professor of history at Harvard and the author of ''Suburban Warriors: The Origins of the New American Right,'' say that the Tea Party uses a kind of code to talk about social values. For instance, when they emphasize a return to the strict meaning of the Constitution, they interpret that as a return to a Christian foundation. 
 ''When they talk about returning to the values of the Founding Fathers,'' she said, ''they are talking about life as a social issue.'' 
 Tea Party leaders champion states' rights, holding dear the Tenth Amendment, which restricts the role of the federal government. The Independence Caucus questionnaire, for instance, asks candidates for their views on Wickard v. Filburn, a Supreme Court decision that Tea Party groups say has been used to vastly expand federal powers. (Roe v. Wade does not come up.) So while some may oppose gay marriage or abortion, they want it left up to states to decide. Nor do they support any abridgement of the right to carry guns. 
 But when the Sam Adams Alliance, a Tea Party-friendly conservative organization in Chicago, surveyed 50 leaders of the movement about the most important direction for the movement, none selected social issues. Most said ''budget'' or ''economy/jobs.''
 While social conservative movements grew out of churches, the Tea Party has built its numbers online. Advocacy groups that have helped grow the movement, like Americans for Prosperity and Freedom Works, have also emphasized the importance of focusing on economic conservatism. 
 Raising social issues, the movement's leaders say, risks fracturing the strength it has built. ''Every social issue you bring in, you're adding planks to your mission,'' said Frank Anderson, a founder of the Independence Caucus, based in Utah. ''And planks become splinters.''
 They also recognize that support for gay marriage has increased, particularly among the young, and so opposing it may alienate supporters. 
 At a candidate forum sponsored by the Kitchen Table Patriots in suburban Philadelphia in January, nine candidates, mostly first-time politicians seeking office after getting involved in the Tea Party, were asked whether they believed that Roe v. Wade should be repealed. Only one said yes.
 ''I think that it's also going to get Democrats over, if you're not so rigid,'' said Anastasia Przybylski, the co-founder of the Patriots. ''I have friends where that's a big turnoff -- they're registered Democrats because of abortion but they're totally freaking out about the debt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anastasia Przybylski, the co-founder of the Kitchen Table Patriots, said focusing on economic issues lures Democrats. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Tea Party supporters at a protest in September in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA LUCIDON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (92%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FAMILY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX LAW (75%); ABORTION (72%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); TAX REFORM (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



327 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: As Its Military Industry Withers, Russia Looks to Buy Arms Abroad

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Ask a Russian what the country makes well, and the answer, more often than not, will be the Kalashnikov rifle. 
 Russian-made cars may be rickety, and its passenger airplanes such fuel-guzzlers that even the country's flag carrier, Aeroflot, has switched to a mostly Western fleet. But Russians could always point with pride to the fearsome reputation of their weapons -- the Kalashnikov and the MIG and Sukhoi fighter jets. 
 Indeed, until recently, Russia's military exports were second in volume only to the United States. 
 But in today's Russia, the $40 billion military equipment industry is withering alongside civilian manufacturing. 
 Once-legendary Russian weapons are suffering embarrassing quality-control problems. Algeria, for example, recently returned a shipment of MIG jets because of defects. 
 An aircraft carrier refurbishment for India is four years late and hundreds of millions of dollars over budget. 
 In perhaps the most poignant sign of trouble, Russia's own military is now voting with its rubles: Moscow is in talks with France to buy four French amphibious assault ships. If a deal is struck, it would be Russia's most significant acquisition of foreign weapons since World War II. 
 The purchase of Mistral-class ships would be ''the most salient example of the deficiencies in the Russian defense industry,'' said Dmitri Trenin, a military analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center, a policy research organization. 
 Outside Russia, the potential deal has led to geopolitical hand-wringing. Critics say France is selling out its Eastern European NATO allies. 
 Yet opposition to the deal has been nearly as fierce inside Russia -- by supporters of the weapons industry. 
 Even as military manufacturing shrank to 4.28 percent of gross domestic product last year, down from 20 percent under communism, Russia's armed forces relied on domestic producers for nearly every screw and bullet in the arsenal. Self-sufficiency in military manufacturing was a ''sacred cow'' of national security, Mr. Trenin said. 
 ''Have we forgotten how to make military hardware?'' a Communist Party deputy, Svetlana Savitskaya, said Wednesday at a hearing in the Russian Parliament about the potential purchase. ''And if we do not have certain secrets that other countries know, what is our military-technological intelligence service for?'' 
 Many experts say the decline began with the end of the Soviet Union. When Russia became capitalist, they say, so did its military industry. Like much of Russian industry, it was privatized haphazardly. For example, factories and the engineering departments that designed what these factories made were sold separately. 
 Over time, this had a deleterious effect on quality. Big companies that inherited export contracts with China, India and the Middle East made profits on older designs and legacy parts but did little to upgrade. 
 The end of generous Soviet military budgets, too, caused assembly lines to creak to a halt at tank and airplane factories. 
 More recently, the sector suffered from an insidious economic problem known as the ''Dutch Disease'' -- when an increase in revenue from natural resources (oil and natural gas, in Russia's case) pushes up a country's currency, making exports more expensive on world markets. 
 This has whittled away at the competitiveness of Russian weapons merchants abroad. The ruble appreciated through most of the decade, before tumbling in the financial crisis. But it is gaining again. The ruble has risen almost 16 percent against the dollar in the last 12 months alone. 
 Other problems have beset Russian military contractors. Many engineers have emigrated, leaving a work force that is near retirement. 
 Even with these troubles, some companies have succeeded and gone public, listing their shares on the Russian Trading System stock exchange. United Aircraft, the umbrella company for the makers of the MIG and Sukhoi fighter jets, has a market capitalization of more than $2 billion, according to Marina Alekseyenkova, an industrial analyst at Renaissance Capital, a Moscow investment bank. 
 The question is, will Moscow buy from these relatively successful companies? So far, domestic military spending has been spread across the entire gamut of Russian military suppliers to maintain the illusion of Russian self-sufficiency. This has meant spending money on hopeless losers, like Russian walkie-talkie makers. 
 Abroad, Russia's share of arms sales plummeted with the onset of the financial crisis in 2008, according to a Congressional Research Service report on the international arms trade released in September. 
 Russia sold $3.5 billion worth of weaponry globally that year, down from $10.8 billion in 2007. That was well behind the United States, whose companies sold $37.8 billion worth of weapons -- 68 percent of the total global arms business that year. 
 In the developing world, where Russia surpassed even the United States in military exports in 2004 and 2006, its market share collapsed. Over all, developing-world sales were flat in 2008, but Russia's share tumbled, from 25.2 percent of all deals in 2007 to 7.8 percent in 2008, the latest year for which figures were available. 
 Russia's traditional customers in Asia and the Middle East held off on new purchases with the onset of the global recession. 
 Russian experts have said the Congressional figures underestimate Russian sales. 
 Rosoboronexport, the state weapons exporting monopoly, said $15 billion in new contracts were signed in 2009. 
 Meanwhile, the result of Russia's foreign military purchases could actually be positive, leading to a streamlined industry, said Aleksandr Golts, a deputy editor at the Yezhednevny Zhurnal newspaper and a commentator on the military. The policy within the industry seems to be one of trying to modernize by assimilating foreign technology -- much as Russia tried with the integration of foreign assembly plants into its auto industry. 
 On the civilian side of its production, Sukhoi is in partnership with the Italian aerospace giant Finmeccanica to built the Russian Regional Jet; Boeing is advising on design and marketing. 
 During a visit to India last week by Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin, Russian aerospace executives said they were in talks with India to develop an export version of Russia's first stealth fighter, the Sukhoi T-50. On Friday the Indian military signed a $1.5 billion deal to buy 29 carrier-based versions of the MIG-29, the same jet rejected by Algeria. 
 Still, struggling to hold onto its export customers, Russia cannot afford to continue investing in the current panoply of domestically produced weaponry, Mr. Trenin of Carnegie said. As the Mistral carrier talks show, Russia has no choice but to become both a buyer and a seller. 
 ''Russia, like Germany or any other country, will be competing and collaborating in the global arms bazaar,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Russian seaman directs a French Mistral warship on the Neva River in St. Petersburg. Russia is in talks to buy four such vessels from France. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DMITRY LOVETSKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Workers assemble rifles at the Izhmash firearms factory in Russia. Izhmash makes roughly 100,000 Kalashnikov rifles every year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAXIM MARMUR/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B2) CHARTS: Selling Fewer Russian Weapons: Russia's arms sales declined in 2007 and 2008 from a peak in 2006 of $15.5 billion -- a sign that its military-industrial complex could be faltering. (Source: U.S. Congressional Research Service) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (91%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); WORLD WAR II (75%); QUALITY CONTROL (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); POLITICS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (57%)

COMPANY: AEROFLOT RUSSIAN AIRLINES OAO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (59%)

TICKER: AFLT (RTS) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



328 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Confident Investors, Wary Consumers

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics on his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
RARELY have stock prices risen as rapidly as they have over the past year. And not in recent decades has such a rise been viewed with as much suspicion as this one. 
 The 66.6 percent gain in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index over the 52 weeks that ended a week ago is greater than any similar move since the Great Depression, when share prices bounced wildly after hitting record lows. 
 Stock prices are one of the data series used in calculating the leading economic indicators in the United States, but this record run has not impressed many analysts or economists. 
 There is still widespread talk of a slow recovery, and some see a double-dip recession on the horizon. One economist, David Levy of the Jerome Levy Forecasting Center, warned this week that the United States was in a period of ''contained depression,'' a transitional stage of debt reduction and asset deflation that will last ''at least several years and perhaps a decade.'' 
 Consumer confidence figures, which have been around since the late 1960s, also show widespread skepticism. The consumer confidence index calculated by the Conference Board is now at 46, an extraordinarily low level. Last month, 6.2 percent of people surveyed by the board said business conditions were good. That is the lowest level ever recorded.
 The widespread pessimism reflects the fact that unemployment remains high and that stock prices have not regained all they lost after peaking in late 2007. A year ago, when the stock market hit its lows, there was talk of a new depression.
 Now it appears the recession has ended, and some economic statistics indicate a fairly normal recovery is under way. But few seem to think it possible that that is really happening. The accompanying graphic shows the eight previous cycles since 1968 when the S.& P. 500 rose at least 38 percent over a 52-week period. In some of them, there was more than one overlapping period, and the chart shows the best of the lot. It also shows the overall level of consumer confidence as that 52-week period was ending.
 There does seem to be a pattern there, one that could provide reassurance for investors. When consumer confidence remains at moderate levels after stock prices leap, the market has generally not been in jeopardy of a major reversal. But problems can be on the horizon when consumers are cocky after stock prices soar. 
 There were three periods when the confidence level rose to well over 100 as prices rose. The first was in 1987, just before the October 1987 crash. The next was in 1998, shortly before the Russian debt default sent markets down across the world. The third was in September 1999, as the great technology stock bubble expanded. The peak in tech stocks was then six months away, but many other stocks were already weakening by then.
 The other five, in 1971, 1975, 1983, 1995 and 2004, came when the confidence index was between 77 and 99. There were market pauses after some of them, but no major setbacks for investors.
 It is a Wall Street adage that bull markets climb a wall of worry. That wall is very high right now.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Market Up, Confidence Down: The Standard & Poor's 500 rose 66.6 percent over the 52 weeks through March 5 -- the largest 52-week gain for the index since the Great Depression. But consumer confidence remained at low levels. The table shows the eight previous cycles since 1968 when stocks climbed more than 35 percent, and the consumer confidence levels at the time. (Sources: Conference Board
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RECESSION (89%); STATISTICS (89%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



329 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: San Francisco Mayor Is Seeking State's No. 2 Job

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- Declaring his candidacy for a job whose very power he questioned, Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco said Friday that he was running for lieutenant governor of California.
 The announcement, which had been rumored for weeks, came a little more than four months after Mr. Newsom, a Democrat, dropped out of the race for governor in the face of sagging fund-raising and the expected candidacy of Jerry Brown, the state's attorney general. Mr. Brown formally announced his candidacy last week in what is expected to be a bruising and expensive battle for the state's top job. 
 For the less glamorous No. 2 position, Mr. Newsom said in a statement that he had initially been unsure as to whether the lieutenant governor's office was ''the right place to lead a reform movement that has the power to shake up Sacramento.'' But, he said, he had been increasingly intrigued by ''the broad, informal portfolio'' of the position. 
 ''Big, bold ideas are the currency of this job, and I plan on bringing many to the table,'' he said. 
 Mr. Newsom's chief opponent in the primary in June will be City Councilwoman Janice Hahn of Los Angeles, who issued a short statement Friday, citing a column in The San Francisco Chronicle suggesting that Mr. Newsom was becoming a career politician in the mold of former Gov. Gray Davis, who was recalled in 2003. 
 There are signs that Mr. Newsom would be a formidable candidate. He has the backing of several major California politicians, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi of the United States House, who is a distant relative. Another declared Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor -- State Senator Dean Florez, the majority leader -- dropped out of the race on Friday and threw his support behind Mr. Newsom.
 ''As the African proverb says,'' Mr. Florez wrote in a letter to supporters, ''When the music changes, so must the dance.'' 
 Mr. Newsom, 42, has been a focus of national attention since 2004, when he ordered the city clerk in San Francisco to begin performing same-sex marriages at City Hall. That order, which was later stopped by judicial order, has led to protracted legal battles in the state over same-sex marriage, including a federal court challenge to Proposition 8, which bans such unions and was passed by California voters in 2008. 
 Still popular in San Francisco -- he was easily re-elected in 2007 -- Mr. Newsom had been coy about his intentions after abandoning his bid for governor. In January, he told the New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd that he would likely be working as ''the clerk of a wine store'' soon. Mr. Newsom, who made a tidy fortune in the wine and restaurant business, said later that he had been joking. 
 Considered a graceful and charismatic speaker, Mr. Newsom has struggled with personal issues, including his admission in 2007 of a drinking problem after revelations of an affair with his campaign manager's wife. He sought treatment.
 In 2008, he married Jennifer Siebel, an actress, who gave birth to the couple's first child -- a daughter, Montana -- last fall. He cited strains on his family life as a reason for abandoning his campaign for governor. 
 In an interview, Mr. Newsom said that the lieutenant governor's office -- which carries with it appointments to several statewide bodies, including the University of California Board of Regents -- would allow him to concentrate on education, the environment and the economy. 
 And while his earlier run for statewide office landed with a thud, he said he was in a better place -- personally and professionally -- to run. He has gotten the hang of fatherhood, he said, and he has a plan to close the city's $522 million deficit. He has also learned from his last bid. 
 ''I know what we did wrong in the governor's race, and we know what we did right,'' he said. ''And we're going to build on that.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); POLITICS (69%); RESTAURANTS (66%); WRITERS (61%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); MARRIAGE (60%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (72%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JANICE HAHN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



330 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Finish the Session Mixed, but End Stronger for the Week

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Mixed economic reports held the equity markets to only modest moves on Friday, though gains for the week were strong.
 Uneven figures on retail sales and consumer confidence gave investors little insight into the economy.
 The reports were not enough to propel the market higher a day after the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed at its highest level in 17 months. The index slipped on Friday, but the Dow Jones industrial average tacked on nearly 13 points.
 Major indicators climbed for the week after investors grew more upbeat about the health of banks. Shares of Citigroup rose 13.4 percent for the week. 
 Shares had been modestly higher at the start of trading on Friday after a surprising increase in February retail sales. The Commerce Department said retail sales rose 0.3 percent last month. Analysts had expected a drop.
 A weaker report on consumer sentiment disappointed traders. The preliminary Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for March fell to 72.5, from 73.6 in late February.
 Investors were also displeased with the Commerce Department's report that inventories were unchanged; economists had forecast an increase. Analysts are hoping that businesses will restock on a consistent basis, which would be a good sign for the economy.
 The reports come as investors look for more signs about the economy's direction. The market bounced higher in the previous week after the Labor Department said employers cut fewer jobs in February than economists had expected. But trading since has been more subdued.
 Neil Menard, a principal at Steben & Company in Rockville, Md., said the market could continue to make incremental gains until investors get a better sense of the job market. He sees little confidence behind the advances of the last two weeks.
 ''There is a lack of conviction in the markets,'' he said. ''Everyone is kind of in wait-and-see mode.''
 The Dow rose 12.85 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,624.69. The broader S.& P. 500 slipped 0.25 point, or less than 0.1 percent, to 1,149.99. The Nasdaq fell 0.80, or less than 0.1 percent, to 2,367.66. It stands at an 18-month high.
 For the week, the Dow rose 0.6 percent, the S.& P. 500 index rose 1 percent and the technology-dominated Nasdaq climbed 1.8 percent.
 Bond prices were mixed. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.70 percent from 3.73 percent late Thursday. The price rose 7/32, to 99 12/32.
 Crude oil fell 87 cents to settle at $81.24 a barrel in New York trading.
 The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices fell.
 Stocks were mixed on Monday after the insurance giant American International Group sold a big foreign division to MetLife for $15.5 billion. 
 The market rose on Tuesday and Wednesday and posted bigger gains on Thursday after Citigroup's chief executive, Vikram S. Pandit, said the bank was moving toward ''sustained profitability.'' Citigroup was the hardest hit bank during the financial crisis.
 The coming week could provide important signals on the economy. The Federal Reserve's interest rate committee meets on Tuesday. Although policymakers are almost certain to leave their target interest rate at a record low of essentially zero, traders will be looking at the policy statement that follows the meeting. Even the slightest shift in the Fed's language on how long interest rates will remain unchanged or on its assessment of the economy most likely would move the market. Reports are also due on inflation and regional manufacturing.
 Christian Hviid, chief market strategist at Genworth Financial Asset Management in Encino, Calif., said the market's slow ascent during the week was good, but noted that shares had risen too much in the past month.
 ''It's better that we move slowly upward than violently up and then see a lot of volatility,'' he said.
 The S.& P. 500 index is up 8.8 percent from its recent low on Feb. 8. A gain of that size might typically come in a year.
 Mr. Hviid added that the trading volume and activity that comes with next week's expiration of options contracts could shake up the market.
 Britain's FTSE 100 rose 0.2 percent, Germany's DAX index rose 0.3 percent, and France's CAC-40 fell less than 0.1 percent. Japan's Nikkei stock average rose 0.8 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BONDS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); CURRENCIES (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); INSURANCE (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



331 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Conservatives on Texas Panel Carry the Day on Curriculum Change

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Tex. -- After three days of turbulent meetings, the Texas Board of Education on Friday approved a social studies curriculum that will put a conservative stamp on history and economics textbooks, stressing the superiority of American capitalism, questioning the Founding Fathers' commitment to a purely secular government and presenting Republican political philosophies in a more positive light.
 The vote was 10 to 5 along party lines, with all the Republicans on the board voting for it.
 The board, whose members are elected, has influence beyond Texas because the state is one of the largest buyers of textbooks. In the digital age, however, that influence has diminished as technological advances have made it possible for publishers to tailor books to individual states. 
 In recent years, board members have been locked in an ideological battle between a bloc of conservatives who question Darwin's theory of evolution and believe the Founding Fathers were guided by Christian principles, and a handful of Democrats and moderate Republicans who have fought to preserve the teaching of Darwinism and the separation of church and state.
 Since January, Republicans on the board have passed more than 100 amendments to the 120-page curriculum standards affecting history, sociology and economics courses from elementary to high school. The standards were proposed by a panel of teachers.
 ''We are adding balance,'' said Dr. Don McLeroy, the leader of the conservative faction on the board, after the vote. ''History has already been skewed. Academia is skewed too far to the left.''
 Battles over what to put in science and history books have taken place for years in the 20 states where state boards must adopt textbooks, most notably in California and Texas. But rarely in recent history has a group of conservative board members left such a mark on a social studies curriculum.
 Efforts by Hispanic board members to include more Latino figures as role models for the state's large Hispanic population were consistently defeated, prompting one member, Mary Helen Berlanga, to storm out of a meeting late Thursday night, saying, ''They can just pretend this is a white America and Hispanics don't exist.'' 
 ''They are going overboard, they are not experts, they are not historians,'' she said. ''They are rewriting history, not only of Texas but of the United States and the world.''
 The curriculum standards will now be published in a state register, opening them up for 30 days of public comment. A final vote will be taken in May, but given the Republican dominance of the board, it is unlikely that many changes will be made.
 The standards, reviewed every decade, serve as a template for textbook publishers, who must come before the board next year with drafts of their books. The board's makeup will have changed by then because Dr. McLeroy lost in a primary this month to a more moderate Republican, and two others -- one Democrat and one conservative Republican -- announced they were not seeking re-election. 
 There are seven members of the conservative bloc on the board, but they are often joined by one of the other three Republicans on crucial votes. There were no historians, sociologists or economists consulted at the meetings, though some members of the conservative bloc held themselves out as experts on certain topics. 
 The conservative members maintain that they are trying to correct what they see as a liberal bias among the teachers who proposed the curriculum. To that end, they made dozens of minor changes aimed at calling into question, among other things, concepts like the separation of church and state and the secular nature of the American Revolution. 
 ''I reject the notion by the left of a constitutional separation of church and state,'' said David Bradley, a conservative from Beaumont who works in real estate. ''I have $1,000 for the charity of your choice if you can find it in the Constitution.''
 They also included a plank to ensure that students learn about ''the conservative resurgence of the 1980s and 1990s, including Phyllis Schlafly, the Contract With America, the Heritage Foundation, the Moral Majority and the National Rifle Association.'' 
 Dr. McLeroy, a dentist by training, pushed through a change to the teaching of the civil rights movement to ensure that students study the violent philosophy of the Black Panthers in addition to the nonviolent approach of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. He also made sure that textbooks would mention the votes in Congress on civil rights legislation, which Republicans supported.
 ''Republicans need a little credit for that,'' he said. ''I think it's going to surprise some students.''
 Mr. Bradley won approval for an amendment saying students should study ''the unintended consequences'' of the Great Society legislation, affirmative action and Title IX legislation. He also won approval for an amendment stressing that Germans and Italians as well as Japanese were interned in the United States during World War II, to counter the idea that the internment of Japanese was motivated by racism.
 Other changes seem aimed at tamping down criticism of the right. Conservatives passed one amendment, for instance, requiring that the history of McCarthyism include ''how the later release of the Venona papers confirmed suspicions of communist infiltration in U.S. government.'' The Venona papers were transcripts of some 3,000 communications between the Soviet Union and its agents in the United States.
 Mavis B. Knight, a Democrat from Dallas, introduced an amendment requiring that students study the reasons ''the founding fathers protected religious freedom in America by barring the government from promoting or disfavoring any particular religion above all others.''
 It was defeated on a party-line vote.
 After the vote, Ms. Knight said, ''The social conservatives have perverted accurate history to fulfill their own agenda.''
 In economics, the revisions add Milton Friedman and Friedrich von Hayek, two champions of free-market economic theory, among the usual list of economists to be studied, like Adam Smith, Karl Marx and John Maynard Keynes. They also replaced the word ''capitalism'' throughout their texts with the ''free-enterprise system.''
 ''Let's face it, capitalism does have a negative connotation,'' said one conservative member, Terri Leo. ''You know, 'capitalist pig!' ''
 In the field of sociology, another conservative member, Barbara Cargill, won passage of an amendment requiring the teaching of ''the importance of personal responsibility for life choices'' in a section on teenage suicide, dating violence, sexuality, drug use and eating disorders. 
 ''The topic of sociology tends to blame society for everything,'' Ms. Cargill said. 
 Even the course on world history did not escape the board's scalpel. 
 Cynthia Dunbar, a lawyer from Richmond who is a strict constitutionalist and thinks the nation was founded on Christian beliefs, managed to cut Thomas Jefferson from a list of figures whose writings inspired revolutions in the late 18th century and 19th century, replacing him with St. Thomas Aquinas, John Calvin and William Blackstone. (Jefferson is not well liked among conservatives on the board because he coined the term ''separation between church and state.'')
 ''The Enlightenment was not the only philosophy on which these revolutions were based,'' Ms. Dunbar said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A dissenter, Mary Helen Berlanga, accused fellow members of the Texas Board of Education of ''rewriting history.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK PLUNKETT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A12) GRAPHIC: Changing Standards in Texas: The two examples below show, in bold, the changes to the state's social studies curriculum that were approved by the State Board of Education. The changes were sought by conservatives on the board to place more importance on the accomplishments and efforts of Republicans in history and economics textbooks. (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRICULA (91%); CONSERVATISM (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); HISTORY (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (77%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); RELIGION (77%); EVOLUTION THEORY (68%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (62%); CHURCH & STATE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



332 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Senate Backs Ban on Mail-Order Cigarettes in Setback for Tribe

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- By a unanimous vote, the Senate on Thursday passed a bill to eliminate mail-order cigarettes, a victory for public health advocates and a defeat for the New York Indian tribe that dominates the business. 
 The measure was approved by the House last spring but then stalled in the Senate amid a lobbying campaign by the tribe, the Seneca Nation, which controls a $1 billion-a-year tobacco-and-gambling empire.
 The Senecas and their lobbyists rallied other tribes in the name of tribal sovereignty. They also asserted that the bill could cost the struggling economy of western New York more than 1,000 jobs. And they threatened to spend $250,000 urging the defeat this fall of Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, because she supported the bill. 
 Until Thursday, a handful of Democratic senators -- all of them acting anonymously -- had held up passage of the measure, but none had publicly opposed it. 
 Public health advocates argued that mail-order sales enabled underage smoking. State governments also oppose the practice because it evades their cigarette taxes. Big tobacco companies favor the ban, to eliminate competition from cheaper cigarettes. President Obama is expected to sign the measure.
 In a statement, the Seneca Nation called the legislation ''a 21st-century Little Bighorn-type battle.'' 
 ''We will pursue an aggressive campaign of outreach and education to inform the voters of western New York which political leaders stand with the Seneca Nation and those who don't,'' Barry E. Snyder Sr., president of the Seneca Nation, said in the statement. He added: ''Not one senator stood up for Indian Country; they should be ashamed of themselves for selling out our rights and local jobs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (90%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (90%); SMOKING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



333 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Name 6 To Debt-Reduction Panel

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Republican leaders in Congress on Friday named six lawmakers to the bipartisan debt-reduction commission that President Obama created. The presence of antitax hard-liners among them suggests the hurdles to forging agreement by December on proposals to arrest the unsustainable growth of projected deficits.
 But in a joint statement announcing their respective picks, neither Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, nor his House counterpart, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, explicitly made opposition to tax increases a condition of their party's participation in the commission, as some Republicans had urged. 
 Skepticism is high that Republicans would agree to raise revenues, or that Democrats would slash entitlement spending, in an election year with control of Congress in the balance. But many economists said a mix of tax increases and reductions in the fast-growing entitlement benefit programs -- Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security -- was essential, as soon as the economy fully recovered, to avert a fiscal calamity in the coming decade. 
 While the commission will have 10 Democrats and 8 Republicans, the president's requirement that 14 of the 18 members agree to any recommendations in effect gives the minority a veto. 
 Mr. McConnell's three choices for the commission are Senators Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, Michael D. Crapo of Idaho and Tom Coburn of Oklahoma.
 Mr. Gregg is the senior Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, while Mr. Crapo is a member of the committee who is close to Mr. McConnell. Mr. Coburn's well-publicized attacks on federal spending have antagonized colleagues in both parties.
 Mr. Boehner's picks are Representatives Dave Camp of Michigan and Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the senior Republicans, respectively, on the House Ways and Means Committee and the House Budget Committee, and Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas, an outspoken leader among House conservatives.
 Mr. Hensarling recently had a televised budget debate with Mr. Obama when the president spoke at a House Republican retreat, with the president chastising the congressman as mischaracterizing the administration's budget to score political points. 
 Mr. Ryan has been attacked by Democrats this week for his debt-reduction plan that would privatize Medicare and Social Security. In a statement, Mr. Ryan said he had doubts about what the commission could achieve, but added, ''I hope it spurs a genuine effort to tackle the looming crisis of unsustainable entitlement spending, the greatest threat to our nation's fiscal and economic future.'' 
 The panel still lacks three Democrats to be named by the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, who has been preoccupied by the effort to pass health care legislation. One of her choices is expected to be Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, a moderate Democrat and the chairman of the House Budget Committee.
 The delay in filling a commission that Mr. Obama created three weeks ago is frustrating members who have been picked. ''We'd like to get started -- time's a-wasting,'' said Alice Rivlin, a former director of the Congressional and White House budget offices who is one of Mr. Obama's appointees.
 The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, recently named three Democratic senators, and Mr. Obama has named six members who are not elected officials, including two Republicans -- former Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming as co-chairman and David M. Cote, the head of Honeywell International.
 Mr. Gregg was the sponsor of a bipartisan bill to create a similar panel by law, but it was defeated when Mr. McConnell and other Republicans who had been co-sponsors nonetheless voted against it. Mr. Obama then established his panel by executive order.
 ''Although I have reservations about the viability of this effort, the president's National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform is the only game in town,'' Mr. Gregg said, in a statement that otherwise attacked Democrats on spending.
 While Republicans have strongly criticized Democrats for the roughly $1 trillion in stimulus spending and tax cuts since Mr. Obama took office, many nonpartisan studies have attributed much of the nation's current debt to revenues lost because of the recession and to the policies of the past decade when Republicans controlled both the White House and Congress, including tax cuts, spending on wars and a new Medicare prescription drug benefit. 
 ''I don't think we need to raise taxes,'' Mr. Camp said in an interview. 
 He added: ''I think we have a very serious problem in that we cannot sustain the level of spending and the level of taxation to continue on the path we're on. So, very tough decisions have to be made. If Greece wasn't the wake-up bell, I don't know what could be.''
 Republicans have criticized the commission as an election-year ploy by Democrats to look as if they are doing something about deficits. Privately, they considered snubbing the president's call to participate, Republicans said, but some feared that stance would alienate independent voters given the heightened concern about federal deficits.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma, an appointee, has criticized federal spending. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Representative Jeb Hensarling of Texas recently debated the president on his budget. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); MEDICARE (88%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); VETO (78%); TAX LAW (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); PRIVATIZATION (73%); MEDICAID (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); PAUL RYAN (79%); JEB HENSARLING (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (78%); TOM COBURN (78%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%); JOHN SPRATT (58%); MIKE CRAPO (58%); DAVE CAMP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



334 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: India and Russia Sign Pacts

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- India and Russia signed a series of agreements on nuclear, space and military issues on Friday, after a visit by Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. 
 Mr. Putin's visit, and the warm reception he received here from his Indian counterpart, Manmohan Singh, represent a warming relationship between nations with a long history of friendship that has been challenged by India's increasingly cozy ties to the United States. 
 The agreements pave the way to build at least a dozen more Russian nuclear power plants for an energy-starved India, and to funnel more Russian weapons to India's military. 
 The countries also reached agreements to work together on space and fertilizer projects, two crucial areas for India, which has sought to send rockets into space even as its farmers, who make up about 70 percent of the population, struggle to coax subsistence from the soil. 
 As a pioneer of the Non-Aligned Movement, India was officially neutral in the cold war, but in practical terms it had a much closer relationship with the Soviet Union than it did with the United States, a country it viewed warily for ideological and geopolitical reasons. 
 In a post-cold-war world, India and Russia remain important allies. India buys the vast majority of its weapons from Russia, and has invested in Russian oil and gas in an effort to guarantee supplies to keep its rapidly growing economy going. The countries also make up half of the BRIC Group of rapidly growing economies, along with Brazil and China. 
 Mr. Putin met with top political and business leaders, speaking to a group of industrialists in Mumbai, Bangalore and New Delhi via videoconference. 
 ''Cooperation in high-tech is the priority for us,'' Mr. Putin told his audience. ''The Russian government is ready to directly support this activity, with the help of additional financial assistance.''
 Russia is already building two nuclear power plants here, and Friday's agreement paves the way for a dozen more. The signing of the nuclear agreement with the United States in 2008 made it possible for India to buy civilian nuclear technology despite its refusal to sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Since then firms in the United States, Europe and Russia have been vying to get in on lucrative contracts to build plants in the world's second fastest growing economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); BRIC COUNTRIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); FERTILIZERS (69%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); MANMOHAN SINGH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (91%); MUMBAI, INDIA (58%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



335 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Pakistan Army Digs In on Turf Of the Taliban

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ and PIR ZUBAIR SHAH

 BODY:
MAKEEN, Pakistan -- From a forward base in the bare brown foothills of the soaring mountains of South Waziristan, Pakistani soldiers fired artillery at insurgents sheltering in scrub across the valley. Smoke blotted the sky as the soldiers set ablaze houses once used by the Taliban to hide caches of heavy weapons.
 In the Makeen bazaar, where the former leader of the Pakistani militants, Baitullah Mehsud, was once king, the army has flattened the jerry-built stores, including the ice cream parlor, scotching any idea of easy return. 
 Here in the heartland of the Pakistani Taliban, the army has fought for five months to claw back territory from its indigenous enemy. A rare trip under military escort revealed that the battle had turned into a grinding test of wills with no neat resolution in sight. 
 The Pakistani Army has, at least for the moment, gained the upper hand by taking the war to the Taliban in these barren mountains rather than retreating behind successive peace deals, as it once did. But it is not claiming victory.
 ''The terrorists are nowhere and everywhere,'' Lt. Col. Nisar Mughal said as he looked out on a landscape devoid of people, crops, animals or any sign of normal life. ''This is a strange kind of warfare. We can't say the area is completely sanitized. We are hunting them, killing them.''
 Mr. Mehsud and his men, allies of Al Qaeda, used this area over the past few years to attack Pakistani cities and military installations with a ferocious onslaught of suicide bombings and commando raids. 
 Most have now fled to North Waziristan, or to other parts of the tribal areas and to Pakistan's cities, leaving behind small bands of dedicated guerrillas. They continue to inflict casualties on the army with ambushes and sniper fire in a region where the British tried but failed to subdue the tribes during their colonial rule.
 The United States, a long-distance participant and a keen cheerleader in the current Pakistani campaign, killed Mr. Mehsud in a drone strike in August and appears to have killed his successor, Hakimullah Mehsud, in another drone attack in January. But the suicide attacks continue, as evident in the bombings that killed more than 40 people in Lahore on Friday.
 Washington has sent extra artillery, helicopters, body armor, radio sets and even surveillance drones to help Pakistan's ground war. During a recent visit Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton pledged $55 million to upgrade roads in the area.
 In return, the Obama administration would like the Pakistani military to pursue a full-scale offensive in North Waziristan against the Afghan Taliban, who use the area to launch operations against American and NATO forces in Afghanistan, and who serve as Pakistan's proxies against Indian interests there. 
 So far, the chief of the Pakistani army, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, has made clear that India remains Pakistan's prime enemy, despite the persistent insurgent threat, and that the army has its hands full with the South Waziristan campaign. 
 It is a fight that his nuclear-armed military, which is trained for conventional warfare against Indian forces on the plains of Punjab, has been forced to adapt to in strange ways.
 At Nawazkot, a village just north of Makeen, Lt. Col. Yusuf Mehmood said one of his officers, trained in mountain climbing, scaled a 7,000-foot peak with ropes and crampons. The officer had 15 soldiers with him. 
 ''They managed to get above a group of about 300 militants, and then fired on them,'' the colonel said. The militants scattered, he said.
 On a hill above Makeen, Colonel Mughal's men hacked a trail with one bulldozer and six donkeys, used to carry weapons and ammunition. The trail was needed as the path for a new forward base overlooking Makeen, a series of small villages of flat-roofed mud compounds stretched out along a narrow valley.
 Each night, squads of soldiers, charged with fending off efforts by the militants to steal the lone bulldozer, guarded the precious machine.
 The trail took 45 days to build. ''We are fighting within our means,'' one major said wryly.
 Then the trail needed upkeep. Two army engineers, protected with their screen of 15 soldiers, scan the trail every morning for improvised explosive devices planted at night by the militants.
 Now that the snow has melted and pink flowers are blooming, lending a surprising softness to the harsh landscape of dry riverbeds and gravel tracks, the army says it will ask civilians who were ordered to leave last fall to return to their villages.
 The return of the people, many of them marooned in camps in North-West Frontier Province, will probably prove the hardest part of the operation.
 First, many militants are expected to drift back among the civilians.
 Second, the military will remain in South Waziristan for perhaps the next 18 months or so, the army says.
 But neither the army nor the national civilian government has done much preparation for fixing the broken system of indirect rule in the tribal areas that has failed over the last 60 years to deliver development.
 Much of the rebellion of the Pakistani Taliban was fueled by anger at the corruption of tribal leaders who pocketed government money intended for economic development, said a retired army officer, Murad Khan Mehsud, from the village of Nano, not far from Makeen.
 ''I told General Kayani that half the teachers in my village are sitting in Dubai or Karachi, not in the schools,'' Mr. Mehsud said.
 This was because under a time-honored practice in the tribal areas, teachers' salaries were not paid to teachers, but to tribal leaders who in turn split the money between their relatives and a government bureaucrat, he said.
 Some residents have expressed hesitation about returning while the military remains.
 ''We are being asked to go back, but we will only go back when the military leaves,'' said Nasir Muhammad Mehsud, 18, an engineering student from the village of Khaisore, now living in Dera Ismail Khan, a city filled with the displaced from South Waziristan.
 If the military stays in South Waziristan, Mr. Mehsud said, Pakistani civilians will again be subject to attacks by the Taliban, who are not yet defeated. The soldiers, he said, will become targets of the militants, and the people will be caught in between.
 But most galling, Mr. Mehsud said, was the destruction of family property during the fighting, including 200 houses in his area. So far, there had been no offers of compensation for all that was lost, he said.
 Brig. Sarfraz Sattar, who leads the army operation in Makeen, acknowledged some of the difficulties of reform. But, he said, he remained upbeat.
 ''The Mehsuds as a tribe did not support the Pakistani Taliban,'' Brigadier Sattar said. ''Baitullah Mehsud terrorized the people, slit the throats of the tribal leaders, and the people had to submit.'' The army inflicted enough damage on the militants, he said, to make it hard for them to regain that kind of control.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Pakistani soldier in Makeen above what used to be the headquarters of Baitullah Mehsud, a Taliban leader who was killed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PIR ZUBAIR SHAH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (92%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORISM (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (76%); AL-QAEDA (73%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (69%); PEACE PROCESS (54%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (50%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: BAITULLAH MEHSUD (73%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (63%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



336 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Sarkozy's Party Braces for Defeat in French Regional Elections

BYLINE: By KATRIN BENNHOLD and SCOTT SAYARE

 BODY:
PARIS -- President Nicolas Sarkozy's governing party is bracing for a crushing defeat in regional elections this Sunday and next, as voters appear determined to use the last nationwide ballot before the 2012 presidential election to send a sharp warning to the Elysee Palace. 
 Most opinion polls suggest that the opposition Socialist Party and its allies are headed for a clean sweep of the 22 regional councils in mainland France in the two-round contest.
 Unlike state elections in Germany or midterm elections in the United States, the regional ballot has no impact on the arithmetic of government here; Mr. Sarkozy's substantial parliamentary majority is safe. But the timing has turned the elections into something of a midterm referendum on the president and his government that, if as damning as expected, could prompt him to shift gears.
 At first glance, the gloomy outlook for Mr. Sarkozy is somewhat of a conundrum. France has resisted the economic crisis better than its neighbors, and the Socialists have so far failed to present a credible candidate to challenge him in 2012.
 But with unemployment at a 10-year high and recent accusations of cronyism still fresh in voters' minds, Mr. Sarkozy's approval rating has slumped to a record low. In a recent poll by the French firm CSA published in Le Parisien, nearly two of every three French people say they no longer trust the man who was overwhelmingly voted into office three years ago to address the country's main problems.
 ''This election is an opportunity for the French to send a message to the government, and it looks like they will use that opportunity,'' said Frederic Dabi, director of opinion research at the polling institute IFOP. ''It will be hard for the president to ignore.''
 There is no certainty that a sweeping victory would help the Socialists' fortunes on the national level. In the last regional ballot in 2004, the party managed to secure 20 out of the 22 mainland regions, including 12 that had been run by the right. Unable to translate local popularity into a convincing national campaign, they have not won the presidency since Francois Mitterrand took a second term in 1988. The last time they won legislative elections was in 1997.
 Mr. Sarkozy has already hinted that he is ready to break with the image of the serial reformer he has so carefully cultivated. In an interview with the right-leaning magazine Le Figaro published Friday, the president pledged to go ahead with an overhaul of the pension system after the elections but also signaled a slowdown after that to give lawmakers time to consolidate changes made so far.
 ''In the second half of 2011, the government will pause so that Parliament can 'delegislate' if it wants to,'' Mr. Sarkozy said. 
 His comments were immediately assailed by the left as a last-ditch effort to limit the electoral damage. ''This is an electoral maneuver to limit the extent of the protest vote from the French on Sunday,'' said Benoit Hamon, a spokesman for the Socialist Party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (95%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%) FRANCE (95%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



337 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: Appeals Court Upholds Access Rules for Cable TV

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A United States appeals court on Friday upheld a Federal Communications Commission rule that forbids cable companies that also own programming channels from refusing to allow competitors to also offer those channels.
 The ruling, which consumer advocates hailed as a victory, strengthens the F.C.C.'s hand in trying to gain some leverage over the cable industry, which was largely deregulated in 1996 and has fought subsequent attempts by the commission to impose new regulations. The decision could also play a role in the pending acquisition by Comcast of a majority stake in NBC Universal.
 In a 2-1 ruling, a panel of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit said that while competition had increased in the cable business, the F.C.C. was still within its rights to extend a prohibition against exclusive contracts between a cable operator and its affiliated channels because it would limit competition. 
 That means that satellite television providers, like DirecTV and Dish Network, and companies like Verizon and AT&T that also provide television programming, must be allowed to offer potential customers a regional sports channel, for example, that is owned by the local cable operator. In creating the rule, the F.C.C. cited its own economic analysis, which found that local cable companies could gain a significant competitive advantage over satellite providers and other competitors if allowed to withhold channels.
 Cablevision and Comcast, which had challenged the rule, expressed disappointment at the decision. Other court decisions on the commission's rule-making authority are likely to come later this year, including in a case over whether Internet service providers can discriminate against certain Web sites in allowing access to their networks, an issue known as Net neutrality.
 Cablevision said that the F.C.C.'s exclusivity rule and the retransmission consent provisions, which were the source of a dispute last weekend between the company and ABC, were ''outdated and obsolete.''
 ''In today's highly competitive video marketplace, these rules do nothing but tilt the playing field in favor of phone companies and broadcasters to the detriment of fair competition and consumers,'' the company said in a statement.
 Comcast, which has been fighting F.C.C. rules at the same time that it is seeking its approval for its NBC merger, said DirecTV had its own exclusive content arrangements, including the sole right to distribute NFL Sunday Ticket. But that deal does not fall under the F.C.C. exclusivity rule because the owner of the network is an independent company, the National Football League, and not a regulated cable operator. 
 At a Senate hearing on Thursday into the Comcast-NBC deal, Comcast grudgingly pledged to follow the rules, saying it was ''prepared to discuss with the F.C.C.'' having the disputed rules apply to it ''if appropriate.''
 DirecTV called the court's decision ''a victory for consumers'' and applauded the court's acknowledgment that the cable operators ''have the incentive and ability to withhold programming from competitors.'' 
 The F.C.C. and various consumer groups also said pay-television subscribers would benefit. 
 ''The commission's program access rules have played a vital role in making diverse and attractive video programming available to cable and satellite TV viewers,'' Julius Genachowski, the F.C.C. chairman, said in a statement. 
 Corie Wright, policy counsel for Free Press, a nonprofit group that has generally opposed media consolidation, including the Comcast-NBC merger, pointed out that the F.C.C. rule upheld on Friday was scheduled to expire in two years. It was adopted in 1992 and has been extended twice.
 ''If the merger is approved,'' Ms. Wright said, ''Comcast will control an extensive suite of popular channels, including MSNBC, USA and Bravo. Its ability to withhold that programming from competing video services would give it enormous market power and leverage,'' a factor she cited in urging the commission to extend the exclusivity rule again in 2012.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CABLE INDUSTRY (94%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (78%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (76%); MERGERS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (67%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (67%); SPORTS (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%)

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (86%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (74%); DISH NETWORK CORP (58%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (86%); CCV (NYSE) (86%); DISH (NASDAQ) (58%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (74%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (74%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



338 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Jobs and Health Care

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Source of Obama's Trouble'' (column, March 9):
 Bob Herbert is exactly right. While President Obama believes that the federal government has a responsibility to maintain a sound fiscal system, to provide reasonable health care and to make education universally available, he does not believe that the federal government has a responsibility to make jobs available. He never expressed or exposed this belief in his campaign. Indeed, he implied the opposite. 
 The president believes that it is the responsibility of the private sector to provide jobs, and all he can do is hope and watch. Americans are deeply, deeply disappointed -- and angry. This is a mistake of truly tragic proportions!
 Joseph Schachter New York, March 9, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Thanks to Bob Herbert for sounding the alarm about perhaps the most critical issue facing our country: rampant unemployment and the despair that accompanies it. President Obama can score more for improving the well-being and health of Americans by solving the job crisis before it's too late for many Americans.
 Perry Ciment Miami Beach, March 9, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Bob Herbert maintains that the Obama administration is ignoring the troubles of ordinary Americans by focusing on health care. In fact, health care is a major key to the possibility of an improved economy. It will save ordinary Americans money, as well as easing employers' burden of providing health care for employees.
 Health care is a cut-throat business. The executives in charge are not rewarded for providing good service to their customers, but for increasing the profitability of the company.
 The millions of jobs Americans need are not going to materialize until this problem is solved.
 Peggy Murdock Ames, Iowa, March 9, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re Bob Herbert's column and ''The Emotion of Reform,'' by David Brooks (column, March 9):
 It was great to see Mr. Herbert and Mr. Brooks agreeing with each other. President Obama's maniacal obsession with health care shows complete disregard for the jobs crisis facing our country. Moreover, as Mr. Brooks points out, the focus on health care has created so much uncertainty in the small-business community that new hiring has all but ceased. Wake up and connect the dots.
 David Shulman Berkeley Heights, N.J., March 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



339 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Trichet Sides With Advocates of Crackdown on Banks

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
With political momentum building in Europe to crack down on what many see as risky financial practices, the European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet, threw his weight behind the movement Friday by forcefully criticizing the banking industry.
 Separately, the leaders of France and Britain, meeting in London, said they were close to forging an agreement on regulating hedge funds.
 ''At some point in our recent past, finance lost contact with its raison d'etre,'' Mr. Trichet said, according to the text of remarks delivered at a gathering of economists, policy makers and bankers at Stanford University in California. 
 ''It ceased to be a source of services for the real economy and developed a life of its own,'' Mr. Trichet added. ''Finance became self-referential.''
 To prevent future crises, he said, ''we absolutely require intelligent regulation that will prevent self-destruction.''
 Mr. Trichet's comments came as the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, and Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain said they were near a compromise on regulating hedge funds, whose trading practices have been blamed for exaggerating the Greek debt crisis. Private equity firms would also face new regulation.
 Investment funds ''located in offshore financial centers bear a great responsibility for the financial crisis,'' Mr. Sarkozy said at a news conference with the British prime minister in London.
 European Union finance ministers are scheduled to meet Tuesday in Brussels to vote on proposed hedge fund regulations. Britain, home to most European hedge funds, had opposed the regulations, but Mr. Sarkozy indicated a compromise was in the works that would take into account the importance of the financial services industry to London. 
 ''It's a balance we're trying to strike and we have ministers working on it now,'' Mr. Sarkozy said.
 Mr. Brown said he and Mr. Sarkozy agreed that any regulations should include a levy on financial transactions. ''I believe we can reach a solution over the next few days,'' Mr. Brown said. ''People will see that we have not harmed, indeed we have protected, the interest of the financial sector.''
 One question, however, is how effective any rules would be if they applied only to Europe. Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, complained about the proposed hedge fund rules Thursday to the European Union's financial markets chief, Michel Barnier. 
 Mr. Trichet made his remarks at a gathering organized by the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, which included several other prominent figures, including Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council and a top adviser to President Obama; and Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase. 
 Mr. Trichet has spoken in favor of more financial regulation in the past, but his remarks Friday seemed to take a harsher tone. And his comments may carry more weight because, as a cautious central banker who does not need to worry about re-election, he is less susceptible to charges of political populism.
 Like the British and French leaders, Mr. Trichet seemed to take aim at hedge funds when he said: ''Financial reform needs to go beyond the banking sector on which so much attention has been focused. We also have to look very closely at nonbank financial institutions and at the setup and functioning of financial markets.'' Beyond suggesting that banks should be required to hold more capital in reserve, Mr. Trichet did not say specifically what changes were needed to prevent future financial crises. 
 But he mentioned credit-default swaps and other ''complex financial instruments'' that political leaders, including the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, have blamed for inflaming Greece's already perilous finances.
 The Greek prime minister, George A. Papandreou, also complained during a visit this week to Washington that speculators had driven up the interest rate the government must pay on its bonds. 
 Mr. Trichet has often lectured Greece on the need for better fiscal discipline, but he seemed to agree with Mr. Papandreou that derivatives could destabilize financial markets. ''These were invented as instruments to repackage, disseminate and hedge risks,'' Mr. Trichet said. ''In fact, credit derivatives turned into potent vehicles for pure financial market participants to leverage their views.''
 Mr. Trichet seemed to issue a warning to banks that have taken advantage of the huge amounts of cash that the European Central Bank has lent them at low rates. In some cases, banks have reinvested money borrowed at 1 percent in higher-yielding assets, earning millions of euros in easy profits.
 ''Banks might become dependent on today's very favorable access to central bank refinancing to such an extent that their incentives to repair their balance sheets remain weak,'' he said. The nearly unlimited money supplied by the central bank ''opens the door to opportunistic bidding behavior.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); EURO CRISIS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (92%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (79%); GORDON BROWN (76%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JAMES DIMON (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



340 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 13, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Top Choices Are Floated To Fill Seats At the Fed

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Moving quickly to put its mark on the Federal Reserve, the White House on Friday identified two economists and a lawyer as its candidates to fill three seats on the central bank's board of governors. 
 The economists are Janet L. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, who is the top choice for vice chairwoman, and Peter A. Diamond, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor and an authority on Social Security, pensions and taxation. The lawyer, Sarah Bloom Raskin, is the Maryland commissioner of financial regulation.
 Ms. Yellen is generally considered to be more concerned at the moment about restoring economic growth and creating jobs than about inflationary pressures. That viewpoint would put her in sync with the Obama administration and the Democratic Party at a time of near-double digit unemployment, but could put her at odds with inflation hawks on the Fed. Neither of the other two choices has an extensive record on interest rate policy.
 Word of Ms. Yellen's selection emerged on Thursday night. The White House released the other names on Friday afternoon, but stopped short of declaring that those choices were final. 
 President Obama's press secretary, Robert Gibbs, would say only that Ms. Yellen was ''a leading contender'' for the No. 2 spot on the board and that Mr. Diamond and Ms. Raskin were ''under strong consideration for additional vacancies.''
 The cautious language seemed in part a way to gauge reaction in Congress at a time when the central bank has faced criticism over inadequate regulation, a failure to anticipate the fiscal crisis and its sluggish initial response to the financial collapse. 
 The administration did not seem entirely settled on Mr. Diamond and Ms. Raskin. As of Friday evening, according to people who had been briefed on the search, officials were still vetting other potential candidates, including Raphael W. Bostic, an economist and an assistant secretary of housing and urban development; Kevin G. Chavers, a Morgan Stanley executive who led Ginnie Mae; Damon A. Silvers, a lawyer and policy director at the A.F.L.-C.I.O.; and William E. Spriggs, an economist who is an assistant secretary of labor.
 Liberal groups have pressed the White House to include a minority among the nominees; Mr. Bostic, Mr. Chavers and Mr. Spriggs are black.
 In January, the Senate confirmed Ben S. Bernanke for a second four-year term as Fed chairman by the narrowest margin ever for any person to hold the office. 
 Observers of the Fed said that the administration had made a sensible set of choices.
 ''What they've done is try to put together a package of people who play to different strengths: analytic economics with Yellen; a broader economic perspective with Diamond; and then, clearly, a focus on consumer protection with Raskin,'' said Randall S. Kroszner, a formed Fed governor who knows all three. 
 The Fed is at a crucial point in its history. Since 2008, it has held short-term interest rates near zero and placed downward pressure on long-term interest rates by purchasing $2 trillion in government-backed debt and mortgage-related securities.
 In the coming months it will have to prepare the markets for an eventual tightening of monetary policy as it unwinds the extraordinary steps it took to prop up the economy and the financial system and seeks to avert a buildup of inflationary pressures. With unemployment at 9.7 percent, moving to a tighter interest rate policy without choking off the recovery will be an economic and political challenge. 
 Mr. Obama had been facing pressure from the left to appoint Fed governors who would be attuned to economic suffering.
 ''We want nominees to be very strong advocates for the needs of working families and the middle class and be prepared to stand up to the abuses and outrages of Wall Street,'' said Senator Bernard Sanders, an independent from Vermont. 
 On Friday, Mr. Sanders circulated a letter, signed by five other senators, all Democrats, calling for nominees who would focus on abusive lending and the foreclosure crisis. 
 Months ago, Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council, began a search process to fill two vacancies on the board, working closely with Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary. 
 Last week, when the Fed's vice chairman, Donald L. Kohn, announced he would retire in June, the search took on new urgency, officials said.
 The departure of Mr. Kohn, a 40-year veteran of the Fed who is seen as an embodiment of institutional memory, would have left Mr. Bernanke, an authority on the Depression, as the only economist on the Fed's board.
 Ms. Yellen and Mr. Diamond are academic economists with Democratic ties. Ms. Yellen was a Fed governor and White House economic adviser during the Clinton administration. Mr. Diamond co-wrote a book on Social Security with Peter R. Orszag, now director of the Office of Management and Budget. 
 Economists praised both.
 ''Yellen was in the vanguard of economists who tried to provide a firm basis in microeconomic principles for Keynes's macroeconomic ideas,'' helping to explain why wages do not fall, instead of employment, in a recession, said Valerie A. Ramey of the University of California, San Diego. 
 Ms. Ramey said Ms. Yellen ''believes that interventions by the government at key points in time can play an important role in stabilizing the economy.''
 Kenneth N. Kuttner of Williams College said that Ms. Yellen appeared to be close to Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Kohn in the view that ''it is difficult to identify bubbles as they happen, and in any case monetary policy is a very blunt instrument to use against them.''
 Alicia H. Munnell of Boston College, who served with Ms. Yellen on the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said, ''Although, like all good central bankers, Janet worries about inflation, she also cares deeply about the welfare of American workers and the plight of the unemployed.''
 Susan M. Phillips, who served with Ms. Yellen on the board in the 1990s, recalled that Ms. Yellen was meticulous in her participation in the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets the benchmark short-term interest rate.
 ''I used to go in with an outline,'' Ms. Phillips, now dean of the George Washington University School of Business, recalled. ''Janet had a prepared, written statement and she'd be working on it right until she gave it. And I knew that, because I was sitting right next to her.''
 While Mr. Diamond does not specialize in monetary policy, he brings expertise on fiscal matters during a time of considerable worry over the deficit. And Frederic S. Mishkin, a former Fed governor, said that Mr. Diamond's microeconomic perspective was invaluable.
 ''The issues around regulation require really deep thinking about microeconomics, and in that capacity he will be an extremely valuable addition to the board,'' Mr. Mishkin said. 
 Ms. Raskin was named in 2007 to the Maryland position, which involves consumer protection, an area of particular concern to the Fed, and financial literacy.
 She was previously managing director of the Promontory Financial Group, founded by Eugene A. Ludwig, a comptroller of the currency during the Clinton administration. Before that, she was a lawyer at the Senate Banking Committee under Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, a Maryland Democrat who has since retired.
 ''She is consumer-sensitive, in a balanced and thoughtful way,'' Mr. Ludwig said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 17, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A biographical sketch on Saturday with an article about three contenders for seats on the Federal Reserve's board of governors misstated the years that one candidate, Sarah Bloom Raskin, was a lawyer for the Senate Banking Committee. It was from 1993 until 1997, not until 2003.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Janet Yellen of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
PHOTOS (B4) CHART: THE CANDIDATES FOR THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM: Janet Louise Yellen: BORN: Aug. 13, 1946, Brooklyn. OCCUPATION: Economist
president, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, since 2004
professor, Haas School of Business, University of California, Berkeley, since 1980. EDUCATION: B.A., Brown, 1967
Ph.D., Yale, 1971. CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: Member, Federal Reserve Board, 1994-97
chairwoman, Council of Economic Advisers, 1997-99.
Sarah Bloom Raskin: BORN: April 15, 1961, Medford, Mass. OCCUPATION: Lawyer
commissioner of financial regulation, Maryland, since 2007. EDUCATION: B.A., Amherst, 1983
J.D., Harvard, 1986. CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: associate, Mayer Brown, 1986-88
associate, Arnold & Porter, 1988-93
counsel, Senate Banking Committee, 1993-2003
managing director, Promontory Financial Group, 2003-2007.
Peter Arthur Diamond: BORN: April 29, 1940, New York City. OCCUPATION: Economist
professor, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, since 1966. EDUCATION: B.A., Yale, 1960
Ph.D., M.I.T., 1963. CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: President, National Academy of Social Insurance, 1994-1997
 president, American Economic Association, 2003. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); INTEREST RATES (53%); CITIES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (72%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (59%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (59%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010



341 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Take This Job and Write It

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER. 
Jennifer Schuessler is an editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:
Joblessness may be hovering around 10 percent, with some 29 million Americans out of work or searching for full-time employment, but there's one group of people whose persistent alienation from regular employment has emerged as a particularly serious problem. I refer, of course, to novelists. 
 In normal times, they tap away in their ''offices'' at Starbucks, thanking their lucky stars for the book contracts that allowed them to give up their day jobs. But in recent months a cry has gone out for fiction writers to get up from behind their laptops and get back to work, real work -- or at least to start writing about it again.
 Enough with the cozy stay-at-home dramas and urban picaresques featuring young slackers with no identifiable paycheck! The literary novel needs more tinkers and tailors, the argument goes. (The best-seller list seems to take care of the soldiers and spies.) In a video introduction to the latest issue of Granta, dedicated to the theme of ''Work,'' John Freeman, the magazine's editor, lamented the literary ''invisibility'' of daily toil. The essayist Alain de Botton, writing in The Boston Globe, recently called for a new literature ''that can proclaim the intelligence, peculiarity, beauty and horror of the workplace.'' 
 And in The Telegraph of London, John Lanchester, who took a break from novel-writing to research ''I.O.U.,'' his new primer on the financial crisis, asked why fiction tended to ''break down'' in the face of the complex modern economy. Work has become central to many people's self-conception, Lanchester noted. So why, in novels, does it tend to be ''as much a marginal detail of a character's life as her hair color''?
 It's tempting to see all this as nostalgia for the time when most people worked with their hands and a whaling ship or a military ambulance or a migrant workers' camp could be an aspiring novelist's Harvard and Yale. In the 19th and early 20th centuries, American writers weren't afraid to talk shop, whether the work in question was making money, as in William Dean Howells's tales of young Gilded Age strivers, or making sausage, as in Upton Sinclair's ''Jungle.'' 
 In the 1930s, as the Depression deepened, work became a particularly urgent subject for novelists, precisely because so many people didn't have any. In John Steinbeck's ''Grapes of Wrath,'' work, any kind of work, was a fragile bulwark against starvation. In the so-called proletarian novels of the period, with their evil bosses, downtrodden workers and heroic organizers, labor acquired a kind of romance -- not because the actual tasks were ennobling, but because unions held the key to broader social redemption, generally along doctrinaire socialist lines. (Which didn't necessarily imply aesthetic progress: the proletarian novel, the journalist Murray Kempton later wrote, was ''rooted in the American tradition of bad literature.'') In his ''U.S.A.'' trilogy, John Dos Passos, like many literary men and women from privileged backgrounds, connected with the rising misery around him by describing the lives of the working, or workless, class. Other politically minded novelists, of authentically modest origins, made fiction the means for documenting the lives they had only barely escaped. As Morris Dickstein writes in ''Dancing in the Dark,'' his recent cultural history of the 1930s, the roughneck hero of James T. Farrell's ''Studs Lonigan,'' a house painter turned small-time thug, is ''what the author himself might have become had he not left home and become a writer.'' 
 With the arrival of postwar prosperity, the literature of working-class struggle gave way to the literature of middle-class disillusion. In novels like Sloan Wilson's ''Man in the Gray Flannel Suit'' and Richard Yates's ''Revolutionary Road,'' work isn't a tool of social redemption but a graveyard of individual dreams -- often, as in the case of Yates's Frank Wheeler, the dream of being an artist. It's a theme the literary novel hasn't been able to shake. Blue-collar misery has continued to inspire powerful fiction, whether Raymond Carver's stories about laconically depressed waitresses and mechanics or Russell Banks's portraits of violently self-destructive millworkers and snowplow drivers. But these days, it seems, the really unhappy people are working in offices. 
 Take, for example, the characters in Joshua Ferris's dark satire ''Then We Came to the End'' (2007), set in a Chicago advertising agency caught in the throes of layoffs and water-cooler paranoia, and Ed Park's ''Personal Days'' (2008), which unfolds in a similarly depopulating Manhattan cubicle farm. In reality, these satires of late-capitalist office life have less to say about actual work than about the bureaucratic rituals and distractions surrounding it: the joke PowerPoint presentations, the endless forwarding of stupid YouTube videos, the proliferation of Orwellian corporate jargon. In this vision, a job may provide a kind of grim life-boat camaraderie, along with a paycheck, but the work itself is meaningless unto mendacious: a metaphor for the lies and illusions that underlie our economy, if not our civilization. In Ferris's novel, the agency's big last-minute assignment -- to create a humorous campaign for a shadowy breast-cancer awareness group -- is itself a joke. In Park's novel, the company's actual business isn't worth specifying at all.
 But then how much do we really want to read about what goes on at the office? Don't most of us spend far too much time there already? The specifics of modern-day labor are, in many cases, utterly dull, as one of Mary Gaitskill's night-shift clerks could probably tell you as readily as the bankers in ''Union Atlantic,''Adam Haslett's well-reviewed new novel about the financial crisis. Those now calling for an updated literature of the workplace probably don't have in mind books like ''Franz Kafka: The Office Writings,'' a recent anthology of neglected gems like ''Fixed-Rate Insurance Premiums for Small Farms Using Machinery,'' which Kafka wrote while employed in a Prague insurance agency.
 The systems most white-collar employees are embedded in have gotten only more complicated since Kafka's office days. And sometimes fact is more boring than fiction. Even when a profession seems promisingly rich with human implication, the full details can be awfully hard to explain. As John Lanchester argued in The Telegraph, television can get away with a ''cartoon version'' of a profession, but a novel cannot. ''You can't explain in fiction,'' he wrote, at least ''not at the necessary length'' to convey the complexity of ''modern working lives.''
 Or at least you can't in so-called literary fiction, if you want it to stay ''literary.'' As the novelist and critic David Gates writes in his introduction to ''Labor Days'' (2004), an anthology of fiction about work, getting one's hands too dirty with the details of auto assembly or defense procurement or insurance underwriting carries an existential threat to the artist: ''What if it rubbed off on you? What if you got too interested in this stuff and ended up like Tom Clancy, with a best-selling fixation on military hardware?'' (On the other hand, Gates recalls that his father, a master mechanic, spoiled ''The Grapes of Wrath'' for him by pointing out that Steinbeck really had no idea how to fix a jalopy.)
 As our hard times grind on, more notebook-clutching novelists may in fact begin returning to the office and the factory floor, if only to find that the workers are mostly speaking Chinese. But any fiction that comes out of it will be judged less by the authors' mastery of computer manufacturing and capital flows than by their insights into human minds and human motives. As Gates puts it: ''Would you rather read a bad novel about a factory worker or a bad novel about a writer? The only answer is neither.'' 
 To which one might be tempted to add that the work of just being a novelist is a lot harder than it looks. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL ROGERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (79%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (79%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); BESTSELLERS (72%); MIGRANT WORKERS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); WHALING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



342 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ART REVIEW CONNECTICUT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Through Irish Eyes, America as Evildoer

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
It is a refreshing change to have Tom Molloy, an Irish artist, commenting on America at the Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum. While some of the art in the show is a little dated, dealing with events during the presidency of George W. Bush or earlier, it offers museumgoers an all too rare opportunity to see how an artist in another part of the world sees us. The result is not flattering. 
 About 20 works made by Mr. Molloy over the past decade have been assembled by Joseph R. Wolin, an independent curator. With its emphasis on politics and violence, this show is not for the squeamish or easily rattled. And its insensitivity to the tremendous cost of American lives from our lingering Middle East wars will raise the ire of many. 
 There is a great deal of death imagery here, beginning with ''Sweep'' (2009), a pencil drawing based on a news photograph depicting an Iraqi family washing away blood from the roof of a house where United States soldiers shot and injured two Iraqis; the artist's own dried blood drips from behind the frame. More gruesome imagery follows, with ''Dead Texans'' (2002), a loose grid of 50 small, delicate pencil drawings of mug shots of men executed in Texas while Mr. Bush was governor. Much like ''Sweep,'' the delicacy of the pencil drawing belies the horrific subject matter.
 The pencil portraits are interesting as drawings, but have minimal variety. Mr. Molloy can draw, but his real vocation is sculpture and installation art, the artist skillfully manipulating found material and images to create symbolic, politically charged objects.
 Among them is ''Map'' (1999), a dollar bill intricately cut into the shape of a world map as a metaphor for American economic might and hegemony. Maybe it was pertinent 11 years ago, but since then the global financial crisis has shaken things up. 
 ''Swarm'' (2006), like ''Map,'' also employs dollar bills -- more than 3,000 of them. For this installation the artist folded the bills into paper airplanes and stuck them, nose-first, to the wall. The viewer thinks immediately of the swarm of American jets that rained down missiles on Iraqi cities during the recent war, but also of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
 Mr. Molloy's works are designed to evoke a sense of both empathy and responsibility in viewers, to confront us with the human cost of seemingly detached military and government decisions. This is the message of ''Self Portrait'' (2006), the best work in this exhibition. It is a photographic self-portrait of the artist, looking down, holding a copy of The New York Times featuring an article about Ali Shalal Qaissi, an Iraqi man who claimed to be the hooded figure in the Abu Ghraib prison photographs. The Times article includes a photograph of Mr. Qaissi holding a copy of a photo showing a hooded man being tortured at Abu Ghraib. 
 It turned out that Mr. Qaissi was not the man in the famous Abu Ghraib photographs, though he was tortured as a detainee. But this is beside the point for the purpose of this work, in which Mr. Molloy places himself in Mr. Qaissi's shoes, mimicking his downcast eyes, his body language and his clothing. The artist becomes the tortured man, inviting us to empathize with him as he empathizes with Mr. Qaissi. 
 ''Self Portrait'' is one of those works that haunts you long after you leave the show. Disappointingly, the strength of this piece of art is not sustained, and the exhibition weakens perceptibly in places. ''Graven'' (2008) shows a photograph of a weeping Palestinian mother holding a framed picture of her dead son and grandson. The artist has replaced the photograph she holds with his own drawing of it -- a whimsical intervention that feels callous, given the subject matter.
 ''Tom Molloy,'' Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum, 258 Main Street, Ridgefield, through June 13. Information: aldrichart.org or (203) 438-4519. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CRITICAL VIEW: Works by Tom Molloy, clockwise from top left: ''Globe'' (2004), ''Map'' (1999) and ''Self Portrait'' (2006). (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM RUBICON GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); ARMED FORCES (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (62%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



343 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN OLD HILL, CONN.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: Over the Moon About the Water

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
IF the dates on the small signs affixed to facades are to be believed, Old Hill, a well-to-do enclave of Westport, is as unequivocally aged as its name indicates.
 Consider the chocolate-brown 1766 Colonial on Kings Highway North, among similar early-American confections, or the 1823 Federal that distinguishes Partrick Road. Even a Cape on Old Hill Road has a patina of history, its walls draped in ivy.
 The ''hill'' part, too, seems to be borne out. In Fairfield County about 50 miles from Midtown Manhattan, Old Hill is indeed on a gentle slope, which allows prized homes to enjoy glimpses of a valley through rows of sturdy oaks.
 But the landscape feature that most obviously asserts itself, especially in the revealing winter months, is water: ponds like Nash's and Cypress, whose glimmering edges lap the edges of yards, and other pools too small to be named, which collect behind logs until they finally find ways around. 
 With these up-close reminders of the natural world, residents' passion for protecting local aquifers isn't surprising. Many who vehemently opposed development efforts won a significant battle in 2007 against a company called ARS Partners, forcing it to renounce its claim to almost half of a 56-acre site punctuated with wetlands along the Newtown Turnpike.
 Today only 3 of 13 homes planned for the remaining subdivision are built, and one is unsold, said Ralph Grasso, the owner of ARS. Opponents ''could have bought the parcel when it was available, but they never thought to do that,'' he said. ''But it was one of the last big parcels in Westport.'' 
 Preservation fights can be notably fierce. But at this point residents are savoring their victory, said one of them, Jerry Doyle, who extolled the beauty of the area's bodies of water, and pointed out that they still brimmed with wildlife like beavers, snapping turtles and fish. ''People in Westport can be outspoken,'' said Mr. Doyle, who runs a communications company in Manhattan, ''but one of the reasons we love it is that everybody is so involved.''
 He was also drawn to the area by the golf course at Westport's Longshore Club Park. Until recently, only residents could play there -- one reason that Mr. Doyle moved here from Norwalk in 2004, even though the distance between his former and current addresses amounts to only half a mile. 
 He and his family live in a five-bedroom colonial, with three and a half baths and 4,200 square feet. They paid $875,000, and spent an additional $100,000 on renovations, including new siding. He also added a sunroom and front porch, he said, though ''I didn't remove a single tree.''
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 Old Hill's exact borders can be a subject of disagreement. Under a generous definition, it stretches from Post Road West to Wilton Road, from Norwalk to the Saugatuck River, which means it has about 3,500 people across two and a half square miles, according to census figures.
 Architecturally, the dominant styles are Colonial, with low saltbox-style rooflines and 12-over-12 windows, and colonial, with garages that indicate 20th-century origins. Many of the newer properties are found on dead-end private streets, some unpaved, in a town where such roads outnumber public ones, 460 to 332, according to town officials. 
 But scattered throughout are bulging newer mansions with circular windows, enclosed wraparound porches and deep porticos, their roofs topped by whimsical glass-walled belvederes. 
 In the last few years, some Old Hill residents have tried to halt construction of these homes-on-steroids by making it tougher to tear down what previously stood on their lots. In 2008, the town strengthened an ordinance to make the razing of any building at least 50 years old subject to an automatic six-month delay and to public review. 
 That makes it one of the strictest such measures in Fairfield County -- though the recession may have obviated some concerns of teardown foes. 
 In 2009, Westport's building department issued 55 residential demolition permits, down from 94 in 2007, at the height of the housing boom. Similarly, nearby Greenwich issued 54 demolition permits in 2009 versus 164 in 2007, and New Canaan gave out 31 versus 56.
 But one person's McMansion may be another's paradise. In any case, along Old Hill Road, for one, the setbacks are ample enough that new houses are framed in proportion to their size, said Andy Frank, a resident. ''There's mature landscaping here, so you have nice buffers between neighbors,'' Mr. Frank added, asserting that criticism of oversized homes should be redirected.
 But Mr. Frank's views may not be completely representative, as his company, Andy Frank Builders, has put up four large homes in Old Hill over the last decade -- including his own, a five-bedroom colonial. ''I would like to build two-bedroom Capes,'' he said, ''but I can only build what the market dictates.''
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Although few would call Old Hill affordable, homes tend to sell for slightly less than in Westport as a whole. It is rare for a property to trade for less than $750,000, and those that do are usually 1950s ranches on half-acre lots.
 Last year 22 homes sold, for an average $1.1 million, versus $1.4 million for Westport, based on data from the Greater Fairfield County Consolidated Multiple Listing Service. Estates like those along Broadview Road are at the high end, with their guest houses and sweeping lawns. They can command more than $2 million.
 In recent years, as fewer homes changed hands and prices generally dropped, Old Hill's would-be sellers, frustrated by the market, decided to rent out instead. A crucial factor in the resulting increase in rentals, brokers say, was buyers who played along. Convinced that prices would fall further, many decided to take a breather from their searches and become renters. 
 In 2009, 203 homes were rented in Westport, including many in Old Hill -- up from 170 in 2007, said Marilyn Heffers, a broker with William Raveis. Of the current crop of 11 on the market in Old Hill, the average rent is $2,800 a month. But there are fewer rentals this year, which suggests that ''buyers are feeling more comfortable,'' Ms. Heffers said. ''They waited it out and saw adjustments take place.''
 WHAT TO DO
 Earthplace, a 62-acre park at Old Hill's heart, has a museum-and-preschool complex that hummed with the sounds of birthday parties on a recent afternoon. On the grounds, a couple used snowshoes to traverse some of the three miles of trails. (The park also has trails of compacted stone, to accommodate wheelchairs.)
 Working farms are rare, but there are converted barns like the Red Barn, which serves a surf-and-turf-type menu in dining rooms hung with wagon-wheel lights and an oxen yoke. Opened in 1932, it is a Westport fixture.
 THE SCHOOLS
 Even more than in comparable areas, residents cite Old Hill's public schools as a chief reason they moved in.
 King's Highway Elementary School has 470 in kindergarten through fifth grade. Last year, 79 percent of fourth graders met standards in reading, 85 percent in math and 82 percent in writing. 
 Coleytown Middle School enrolls 500 students in sixth through eighth grade. Last year, 97 percent of eighth graders met goals in reading, 97 percent in math and 99 percent in writing.
 At Staples High School, with 1,800 enrollees, SAT averages last year were 596 in reading, 608 in math and in 605 writing, versus 503, 508 and 506 statewide.
 Another option is the Connecticut Friends School in Wilton, which plans to convert a 16-acre piece of a former Norwalk estate on the Old Hill border as a second campus. The school offers kindergarten througheighth grade to 60 students for about $19,000 a year.
 THE COMMUTE
 The closest stop on the New Haven Metro-North Railroad line is Westport. Each weekday morning, eight trains depart between 6 and 8; the average trip to Grand Central Terminal is 68 minutes. A monthly pass costs $308 at the station, and $301.84 online. 
 Parking is a challenge. Of the station's 1,307 spaces, 1,030 require a permit, and the waiting list is at least four years, according to Westport's police department. But commuters can vie for day-use spaces, which cost $4. 
 THE HISTORY
 During the Revolution, the British torched Danbury, then tried to march toward the Westport shore, where their ships awaited. But they were forced to detour along the path of Red Coat Road, after noticing Gen. Benedict Arnold and his forces near where Partrick Road runs today, according to Allen Raymond, the town historian.
 Despite an impassioned speech at the triangular park on Kings Highway, Arnold couldn't rally his troops to give chase, and the British escaped.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NET CONNECTION: In Old Hill, there are those who enjoy being poised for the catch. Nash's Pond is one of the many small bodies of water that define the area's character. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (73%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (72%); WILDLIFE (71%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (67%); WETLANDS (66%); GOLF (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



344 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 458 words

HEADLINE: Love And Baseball

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 My eyes welled up with tears as I read Pete Hamill's beautiful review of James S. Hirsch's biography of Willie Mays (Feb. 28). I, like Hamill, saw Willie play at the old Polo Grounds. I was extra lucky to have sat in the upper stands behind home plate, so I could watch Willie's unique running style as the Giant players scrambled out of the dugout after their time at bat was up -- you could not miss Willie. 
 And Pete, I do know what ''on Harlem summer days he would join the kids playing stickball . . . and hold a broom-handle bat in his large hands, wait for the pink rubber spaldeen to be pitched, and routinely hit it four sewers'' means. In the Bronx, on some of the side streets that ran off the Grand Concourse, we would choose up sides for the game -- if the cops did not confiscate all the broom-handle bats and we had some lively bouncing spaldeens handy. But the longest home runs I remember were two sewers, which might be the difference between Harlem and the Bronx!
 DAVE M. O'NEILL New York
 To the Editor:
 Pete Hamill brought back memories. Sixty long years ago there were 16 teams in the major leagues. The reserve clause prohibited players from being traded, so they became family and we idolized them. Kids on the street corner could not only name the players on all the teams, we could recite their batting averages as well. And in Yankee Stadium, the Polo Grounds and Ebbets Field, fans were adamant about the superiority of their beloved Mickey Mantle, Willie Mays or Duke Snider. (Of course there was never a winner; it depended on whom you rooted for.) That was the beautiful, innocent sport called baseball. That was New York.
 EMANUEL MOLHO New York
 To the Editor:
 I certainly enjoyed reading Pete Hamill's review. But I disagree with him that Candlestick Park and its strong winds cost Mays 100 home runs. Using the Retrosheet data, I found that from 1960 to 1971, his home home-run percentage was 6.72. In road games, it was 5.8 percent. He played only part of 1972 with the Giants. His home home-run percentage was 15.8 percent better than the road home-run percentage (since 6.72 divided by 5.8 equals 1.158). For the average National League player in this period, the home home-run percentage was 2.34, while on the road it was 2.25. The home home-run percentage is 4 percent higher than the road home-run percentage (since 2.34 divided by 2.25 equals 1.04). Mays seems to have gotten more out of his home park than most players. If we give him 100 more home runs at home (he actually hit 202), his home home-run percentage rises to 10.04. That is about 50 percent better than what it really was.
 CYRIL MORONG San Antonio The writer is an associate professor of economics at San Antonio College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); ATHLETES (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



345 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Pre-existing Conditions

BYLINE: By LEAH HAGER COHEN. 
Leah Hager Cohen, a frequent contributor to the Book Review, teaches at the College of the Holy Cross.

 BODY:
SO MUCH FOR THAT
 By Lionel Shriver
 436 pp. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $25.99
 It's like that old joke: A priest, a minister and a rabbi are discussing the beginning of life. The priest says it begins at conception. The minister says it begins at birth. ''And you?'' they ask the rabbi. ''When do you believe life begins?'' He gives a shrug. ''When the kids move out and the dog dies.'' 
 Shep Knacker, the protagonist of Lionel Shriver's latest novel, ''So Much for That,'' believes his life will begin in earnest only when he quits the rat race and moves to Pemba, an island off the coast of Tanzania whose principal attraction is the low cost of living. Or, as Shep thinks of it, ''The third world was running a sale: two lives for the price of one.'' Never mind that he built his own company and then sold it for a million dollars. Shep persists in feeling like ''an indentured servant.'' He wants his liberty, he tells his wife, trying to sell her on the merits of his plan: ''I want to buy myself.'' Her reply: ''But liberty isn't any different from money, is it?'' And, sure enough, the questions this novel raises about human existence prove less ontological than economic. Lest one miss the point, more than half the chapters open with a bank statement, underscoring the impression that plot and character development might be tracked via account balance.
 Laying aside for a moment the paradox of a ''freedom'' wholly dependent on the exchange rate between the Tanzanian shilling and the United States dollar -- laying aside, too, the dubious implications of a white American seeking to shed his ''slave'' status by purchasing land on the cheap and building a home in Africa -- can a novel that regards human experience through its relationship to dollars and cents have literary merit? Can it be entertaining, rousing, illuminating?
 Well, yes. Look at Austen, Dickens, Thackeray, James, Wharton. Or, more recently, Louis Auchincloss, Tom Wolfe, Jay McInerney. All have made hearty fictional stew out of the ways money both predicates and instigates action. But the approach works best when novelists account for the fact that money is hardly ever (to paraphrase Richard Yates) the real reason characters act -- when it's treated, rather, as a means to stir up weightier social, psychological and philosophical concerns.
 Shriver, it would seem, has laid the groundwork to do just that. Neither stingy with subplots nor shy about taking on timely, complex issues, she tosses plenty of both into the pot with real daring and brio. Almost as soon as we meet Shep and learn of his determination at last to embark on ''the Afterlife'' (as he has christened his long-cherished escape fantasy), he's hit with the news that his wife, Glynis, has a rare cancer, peritoneal mesothelioma, which puts the kibosh on his plans. With oddly triumphant coolness, she informs him that she wishes he wouldn't go: ''I'm afraid I will need your health insurance.'' 
 Co-pays, deductibles, out-of-network providers and lifetime payment caps all become part of Shep's vernacular, first as he navigates his wife's illness and treatment, then as his octogenarian father breaks his leg and must be moved, at Shep's expense, into a nursing home. The idiom of illness seeps into the way he views his plight: As his Pemba nest egg dwindles, Shep thinks of himself as ''hemorrhaging'' money. He sees Glynis's surgery as ''gouging a meaty chunk'' from his portfolio, ''as if to fiscally mirror the violence inflicted on his wife's abdomen.'' Conversely, his thoughts on mortality conform to the lingo of finance: as far as he's concerned, the fact that Glynis is dying at age 51 means she is ''owed'' an ''astronomical debt.'' 
 While visiting his father, a retired minister, in the nursing home, Shep wonders aloud about ''a limit to how much you should pay to keep any one person alive.'' His father parses the matter more finely, asking ''what a life is worth, in dollars.'' If the scene's ensuing dialogue is salted with phrases (expenditure cap, cost-effectiveness, generic ibuprofen) that seem more suited to an editorial on the health care debate than to an intimate exchange between mournful son and ailing paterfamilias, this might reflect Shriver's journalistic status as a regular contributor to The Guardian of London. There's nothing wrong with writing a newsworthy novel, but at times these prodigiously researched and exhaustively argued critiques read more like excerpts from a position paper.
 Health care also figures crucially in the story of Shep's best friend, Jackson, first because his 16-year-old daughter has familial dysautonomia, a congenital degenerative condition requiring frequent medical interventions, and later because Jackson undergoes elective plastic surgery on a ''certain'' part of his lower anatomy (for more than a third of the book Shriver alludes to this matter in equally coy-yet-transparent language). Said operation, horrifically botched, leads to several reconstructive surgeries, themselves not only ''exorbitant'' but ''disappointing.'' These in turn lead to the ruin of Jackson's marriage, the bankrupting of his family and the . . . well, I won't give it away, except to say that a ''certain'' subplot concludes in a scene worthy of a splatter movie. Jane Austen, anyone?
 Although this violent swerve into what seemed like a whole different subgenre initially struck me as jarring (so jarring that I wondered whether Shriver's intentions could be comedic), on reflection it seems not entirely unpresaged. The amount of calcified rage contained in these pages is awesome. Shep is a paragon of passive-aggression, at once disgusted by and perversely proud of the way he absorbs abuse without complaint. Glynis, who begins the book ''stiff, uncooperative and inflexible,'' undergoes a lamentable kind of emotional growth after the cancer diagnosis: she develops full-blown schadenfreude. Jackson carries around so much excess anger that his acknowledged pastime is ranting. He can keep it up for pages at a time: about ''the immigrants,'' ''arty bohemian types,'' ''Mugs and Mooches,'' parking tickets, taxes, schools and, of course, health care. Jackson's wife maintains a disturbingly highhanded calm bordering ''on insanity.'' Shep's sister is a caricature of shrewish resentment and cunning. His teenage son is so shut-down he puts Shep in mind of hikikomori, youngJapanese who suffer from such acute social withdrawal that they never leave their rooms. And Shep's boss (Shep now works for the company he sold) is an uninflected ogre.
 Shriver, the author of nine previous novels and the winner of Britain's Orange Prize in 2005 for ''We Need to Talk About Kevin,'' tackles her multifaceted plot with energy and grit. She can and does hold forth smartly on any number of subjects, both topical and esoteric. The book doesn't suffer from vapidity or diffidence or dearth of event. What it lacks is a fullness of wisdom about its characters' potential for growth. If none of the characters are particularly becoming, it may be because none become in any meaningful way over the course of the book. When at last Shep glimpses a solution to his woes, it isn't the result of an expanded capacity to perceive worth. The trick turns out to be precisely ''putting a dollar value on human life'' -- in other words, the fulfillment of his misguided sense of entitlement. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALAIN PILON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (74%); COST OF LIVING (73%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); US DOLLAR (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (67%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (87%); AFRICA (79%)

TITLE: So Much for That (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



346 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: A Military Chile Can Love Again

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
At Gen. Augusto Pinochet's funeral, one of his grandsons, an Army captain also named Augusto Pinochet, gave a eulogy so defiant and aggressive that he was cashiered the next day. Earlier, as the general lay in state in his dress uniform and Chileans filed by his casket to pay their last respects, the grandson of another general, assassinated by Pinochet's secret police, spat on the former dictator's cadaver full in the face.
 That was barely three years ago, and it suggested that the ghost of General Pinochet, who ruled Chile from 1973 to 1990 and continued as army commander until 1998, would be hard to exorcise. But the scenes of Chileans' embracing soldiers who aided in rescue and reconstruction efforts after the huge earthquake last month make all that divisiveness seem an eternity ago. 
 ''This disaster was so immense that what people are seeking above all now is stability,'' said Gregory B. Weeks, author of ''The Military and Politics in Postauthoritarian Chile'' and a professor at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. ''This is the first real troop presence since the end of the dictatorship, and obviously raises a certain amount of nervousness. But it marks a return to a normal civil-military relationship.''
 The euphoria is such that Chileans seem willing to overlook serious lapses in the performance of the other military services. Instead, public dissatisfaction with the government's slow response has been transferred to Michelle Bachelet, who began her term as president four years ago as a symbol of reconciliation. Still, Ms. Bachelet, the daughter of a general and herself a former defense minister who was jailed, tortured and exiled, stepped down Thursday with an 84 percent approval rating.
 ''Ironically, by hesitating to send the troops out sooner, she transferred some of her own political capital to the military,'' said Patricio Navia, a Chilean political scientist who teaches at New York University and Diego Portales University in Santiago. ''It was poetic justice of a sort'' because ''her links with the military had helped her become president'' in the first place.
 Traditionally, Chileans are said to have had a cordial relationship with their military, at least in comparison with some other Latin American societies. That explains in part why the bloody coup that brought General Pinochet to power in 1973, and the extensive human rights violations that followed, were so traumatic for Chile.
 Even during my first reporting trip to Chile, in 1979, I heard older Chileans talk fondly of childhood trips to Valparaiso to see the Esmeralda, the four-masted Navy training ship that was the pride of the fleet but became a floating torture center in the Pinochet era. The annual Sept. 19 military parade in Santiago always drew huge crowds, and for decades mothers aspired to marry their daughters off to dashing young officers in uniforms.
 Other Latin American societies also put their armed forces on a pedestal; the attraction of all things military is one plot line in the Peruvian Mario Vargas Llosa's play ''La Senorita de Tacna.'' But Chile was always considered especially conservative in valuing order and stability. Even the Socialist Salvador Allende, whom General Pinochet overthrew, had military officers in his cabinet and staff; Ms. Bachelet's father was one.
 ''The Chileans are a very history-minded people, with a reverence for their past,'' said Frederick M. Nunn, author of ''The Time of the Generals.'' ''Even in the 1970s, people still accepted the army, though they might not have accepted what the army had done.''
 Claudio Fuentes is an expert on the military who now teaches at Diego Portales University. In 1991 and again in 2007, he and others conducted polls to measure attitudes toward the military, and found that suspicions had declined significantly. Over those 16 years, the segment of the population that believed that the armed forces might be willing to carry out another coup fell from nearly half of those questioned to only a quarter. ''There is strong support for the military as an institution, which is perceived as efficient, professional and obedient to authority,'' Mr. Fuentes said. ''But citizens also believe that the military should be out of politics.''
 Now, how quickly the rehabilitation of the armed forces proceeds depends in large part on the country's new president, Sebastian Pinera, a conservative who took office Thursday.
 Rather than turn to someone in his own camp who might be tainted by associations with General Pinochet, he reached beyond his own base for his defense minister and chose Jaime Ravinet, a Christian Democrat who succeeded Ms. Bachelet in the post in 2004. ''It's like Obama choosing to have Gates stay on,'' said Brian Loveman, author of ''For la Patria: Politics and the Armed Forces in Latin America.'' ''Ravinet is not associated with any kind of internal repression or overseas activities. In that job, you want somebody who can get along with the military, knows the people in the armed forces and can take their concerns to Congress. Ravinet has already proved he can do that.''
 One additional problem Mr. Pinera might want to keep in mind is the prickliness that Latin American countries show about anything that might be seen as questioning their sovereignty or competence. That sentiment, shared by left and right, military and civilians, was on display in Mexico after a devastating quake there in 1985, and appears also to have been a factor in Chile's response to its Feb. 27 disaster.
 In January, Chile became the first South American country to join the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, also known as ''the rich countries club.'' But that opportunity to project an image of modernity and prosperity was undermined last week when Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, visiting Santiago, handed out 25 satellite phones, including one to Ms. Bachelet.
 ''Chile wanted to be compared to Japan, not Haiti,'' Mr. Navia said. ''For a country that wants to prove it's a developed country, accepting aid is complicated. It was the first response, and it was a mistaken response.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dictator: General Augusto Pinochet took power in a 1973 coup that ousted the socialist government of Salvador Allende. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLAUDIA DAUT/REUTERS)
 Keeping Order: Soldiers enforce a curfew in Constitucion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IVAN ALVARADO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ARMIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); NAVIES (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); COUPS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MILITARY TRAINING (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); POLITICS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (63%); PARADES & MARCHES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHARLOTTE (55%)

PERSON: MICHELLE BACHELET (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (70%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) CHILE (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



347 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Great Time to Buy (Famous Last Words)

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
''IT'S a great time to buy a home.''
 Real estate agents were saying that in 2001, as home prices were rising. They also said it when home prices peaked in 2005 -- in fact, David Lereah, former chief economist of the National Association of Realtors, published a book that year titled ''Are You Missing the Real Estate Boom?''
 And many real estate agents said it was time to buy as prices began to drop -- and continued to say it over the past several years as prices fell by an average of 33 percent in America's 20 largest cities. 
 Mr. Lereah would acknowledge that he had gotten it wrong. But from the perspective of many real estate agents, it is always a good time to buy.
 ''What they are really saying is that it is a good time to be involved in a transaction that generates a commission,'' says Barry Ritholtz, C.E.O. and director of equity research at FusionIQ, a quantitative research firm. He's also author of ''The Big Picture,'' an irreverent blog on markets.
 If agents are always motivated to make a deal, buyers are often asking an impossible question: ''Will the price of this house go up?''
 Although the National Association of Realtors said for many years that home prices historically don't fall, actually they do, and sometimes quite sharply. The housing market is complicated, and the future unknowable. Still, for clues to the overall direction of prices, Mr. Ritholtz advises buyers to look at three metrics: the ratio of median income to median home prices, which suggests whether people can afford a house; the cost of ownership versus renting; and the value of the national housing stock as a percentage of gross domestic product.
 All those measures were aberrationally inflated during the housing bubble. And they still aren't back to historical norms. We can get back to the norm in either of two ways, Mr. Ritholtz says: home prices can either drop an additional 15 percent or go sideways for seven years or so, while G.D.P. and income presumably grow.
 To complicate matters, even if home prices rise or fall nationally, they may not follow that pattern in Las Vegas or South Florida or Maine, to say nothing of the neighborhood where you want to buy.
 There may be a better way, however, for potential buyers to approach the problem. ''Predicting interest rates is a whole lot easier than predicting home prices,'' says Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, a multistate discount online real estate brokerage company based in Seattle. ''Before you buy the house, you buy the money,'' he says.
 It's a little like walking into a dealership to buy a car, and finding the saleswoman immediately jotting down what your monthly payments will be and starting the negotiations there. That's absolutely the wrong way to buy a car. But for a prospective homeowner, it's a good place to start the analysis to determine how much house you can buy.
 Instead of betting on home prices, you make a bet on whether money will become cheaper or more expensive, allowing you to buy more or less house.
 That's where the regular Joe has a pretty good shot of being right. You won't know day to day, or week to week, what's happening to rates, and a jolt like a default in Greece or a change in Chinese monetary policy can throw everything off. But, generally, the Federal Reserve is telegraphing where things are headed over the next six months.
 ''I can't prove to you that housing prices have definitely bottomed out,'' Mr. Kelman says. ''I can say with a fair degree of certainty that the cost of money will go higher.''
 OF course, if rates go up, home prices tend to dampen. Borrowing $300,000 at 5 percent costs you $1,610 a month. If rates rise to 6 percent, that's $188 a month more, or $67,680 over 30 years. Would the price of a $375,000 house fall because of a half-point rate hike? Now you are back to guessing about home prices. Don't go there. Maintain your focus.
 ''People are frequently buying for the wrong reasons,'' says Frank LLosa, a real estate agent working in northern Virginia. In most cases, he says, they think that they are getting an income tax break or that their home is an investment.
 He points out that a buyer of a $300,000 home would have to see the house appreciate $18,000 just to cover the commission and closing costs. Then figure in the predictable costs of maintenance, the opportunity costs of the mortgage down payment and the amount one could have saved by renting a similar place more cheaply.
 Then there are property taxes.
 In California, taxes alone can be $5,000 a year on that $300,000 house. In New Jersey, where property taxes are the highest in the nation, the extra cost can be even more. (The Star-Ledger of Newark calculated that, on average, residents in the town of Lodi pay 10 percent of their income in property taxes.) But who would have guessed that property taxes in that state would keep climbing, doubling over the course of seven years in some cases, even as home values stopped appreciating?
 Mr. LLosa thinks that many people -- including him -- would be better off renting. People ought to buy a house for what he calls ''warm and fuzzy feelings,'' but they shouldn't try to predict home prices. Nor should real estate agents, who aren't much wiser.
 ''I don't think real estate professionals should be in the business of telling people when it is a great time to buy,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2010

 CORRECTION:
The Everybody's Business column last Sunday, about the future of the housing market, misstated the additional amount by which Barry Ritholtz of FusionIQ, a quantitative research firm, believed home prices needed to drop in the short term in order to return to historical norms. It is 15 percent, not 50.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Home prices have not proved to be predictable, but they aren't the only factor buyers can consider. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (BU1)
 An ad for mortgage rates last year at a bank in Maine. The general direction of interest rates is one thing that a potential homebuyer can often predict. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT F. BUKATY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE AGENTS (93%); REAL ESTATE (93%); HOME PRICES (92%); EQUITY RESEARCH (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); WRITERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%)

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



348 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: The Femivore's Dilemma

BYLINE: By PEGGY ORENSTEIN. 
Peggy Orenstein, a contributing writer, is the author of ''Waiting for Daisy,'' a memoir.

 BODY:
Four women I know -- none of whom know one another -- are building chicken coops in their backyards. It goes without saying that they already raise organic produce: my town, Berkeley, Calif., is the Vatican of locavorism, the high church of Alice Waters. Kitchen gardens are as much a given here as indoor plumbing. But chickens? That ups the ante. Apparently it is no longer enough to know the name of the farm your eggs came from; now you need to know the name of the actual bird. 
 All of these gals -- these chicks with chicks -- are stay-at-home moms, highly educated women who left the work force to care for kith and kin. I don't think that's a coincidence: the omnivore's dilemma has provided an unexpected out from the feminist predicament, a way for women to embrace homemaking without becoming Betty Draper. ''Prior to this, I felt like my choices were either to break the glass ceiling or to accept the gilded cage,'' says Shannon Hayes, a grass-fed-livestock farmer in upstate New York and author of ''Radical Homemakers,'' a manifesto for ''tomato-canning feminists,'' which was published last month. 
 Hayes pointed out that the original ''problem that had no name'' was as much spiritual as economic: a malaise that overtook middle-class housewives trapped in a life of schlepping and shopping. A generation and many lawsuits later, some women found meaning and power through paid employment. Others merely found a new source of alienation. What to do? The wages of housewifery had not changed -- an increased risk of depression, a niggling purposelessness, economic dependence on your husband -- only now, bearing them was considered a ''choice'': if you felt stuck, it was your own fault. What's more, though today's soccer moms may argue, quite rightly, that caretaking is undervalued in a society that measures success by a paycheck, their role is made possible by the size of their husband's. In that way, they've been more of a pendulum swing than true game changers.
 Enter the chicken coop.
 Femivorism is grounded in the very principles of self-sufficiency, autonomy and personal fulfillment that drove women into the work force in the first place. Given how conscious (not to say obsessive) everyone has become about the source of their food -- who these days can't wax poetic about compost? -- it also confers instant legitimacy. Rather than embodying the limits of one movement, femivores expand those of another: feeding their families clean, flavorful food; reducing their carbon footprints; producing sustainably instead of consuming rampantly. What could be more vital, more gratifying, more morally defensible? 
 There is even an economic argument for choosing a literal nest egg over a figurative one. Conventional feminist wisdom held that two incomes were necessary to provide a family's basic needs -- not to mention to guard against job loss, catastrophic illness, divorce or the death of a spouse. Femivores suggest that knowing how to feed and clothe yourself regardless of circumstance, to turn paucity into plenty, is an equal -- possibly greater -- safety net. After all, who is better equipped to weather this economy, the high-earning woman who loses her job or the frugal homemaker who can count her chickens?
 Hayes would consider my friends' efforts admirable if transitional. Her goal is larger: a renunciation of consumer culture, a return (or maybe an advance) to a kind of modern preindustrialism in which the home is self-sustaining, the center of labor and livelihood for both sexes. She interviewed more than a dozen families who were pursuing this way of life. They earned an average of $40,000 for a family of four. They canned peaches, stuffed sausages, grew kale, made soap. Some eschewed health insurance, and most home-schooled their kids. That, I suspect, is a little further than most of us are willing to go: it sounds a bit like being Amish, except with a car (no more than one, naturally) and a green political agenda. 
 After talking to Hayes, I rushed to pick up my daughter from school. As I rustled up a quick dinner of whole-wheat quesadillas and frozen organic peas, I found my thoughts drifting back to our conversation, to the questions she raised about the nature of success, satisfaction, sustenance, fulfillment, community. What constitutes ''enough''? What is my obligation to others? What do I want for my child? Is my home the engine of materialism or a refuge from it? 
 I understand the passion for a life that is made, not bought. And who doesn't get the appeal of working the land? It's as integral to this country's character as, in its own way, Wal-Mart. My femivore friends may never do more than dabble in backyard farming -- keeping a couple of chickens, some rabbits, maybe a beehive or two -- but they're still transforming the definition of homemaker to one that's more about soil than dirt, fresh air than air freshener. Their vehicle for children's enrichment goes well beyond a ride to the next math tutoring session. 
 I am tempted to call that ''precious,'' but that word has variegations of meaning. Then again, that may be appropriate. Hayes found that without a larger purpose -- activism, teaching, creating a business or otherwise moving outside the home -- women's enthusiasm for the domestic arts eventually flagged, especially if their husbands weren't equally involved. ''If you don't go into this as a genuinely egalitarian relationship,'' she warned, ''you're creating a dangerous situation. There can be loss of self-esteem, loss of soul and an inability to return to the world and get your bearings. You can start to wonder, What's this all for?'' It was an unnervingly familiar litany: if a woman is not careful, it seems, chicken wire can coop her up as surely as any gilded cage. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHERINE WOLKOFF) DRAWING (DRAWING BY HUMAN EMPIRE)
 GRAPHIC: 35% of U.S. HOUSEHOLDS participated in food GARDENING in 2009 (DATA SOURCE: THE NATIONAL GARDENING ASSOCIATION.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); POULTRY (78%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (76%); GARDENING (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); RELIGION (72%); WRITERS (66%); SOCCER (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GARDENING ASSOCIATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



349 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: LETTERS

 BODY:
ARMREST BATTLES 
 To the Editor: Regarding ''Excuse Me, Is This Seat Taken?'' (Feb. 28): My daughter, who arrived recently on a Delta flight from Las Vegas, told us that she had spent most of the flight in the aisle because of an oversize seatmate. No one offered to find her another seat since the plane was full, nor did anyone offer to refund her fare or cut the price to half since she did not have more than half a seat. 
 The discussion of rights on flights to a full seat should be taken seriously from the standpoint of both the wide and slim passenger. Maybe reservations clerks should ask for a form specifying height and weight to determine the bulk of prospective passengers. I certainly would endorse the inclusion of a row or two of wide seats in economy class with an add-on to the price to make up for lost seating. It is time to take this situation seriously.
 Mary Elizabeth Etheridge
 Atlanta
 To the Editor: I am 5 feet 9 inches tall and weigh 160 pounds. I can barely fit into the seats in coach. I agree with Michelle Higgins's suggestion to alleviate the problem: ''How about some wider seats in coach?'' Carole York
 Lakewood, Calif.
 To the Editor: There is a simple, if imperfect solution to the problem. In each coach cabin place a couple of rows of two-across seats where there are now three-across seats. Sell them for 150 percent of the regular coach fare. Make it mandatory for those who do not fit in the standard coach seat to purchase these larger seats, but also make them available to anyone who simply wants a wider seat in coach. The airlines will not lose any money, and everyone will be more comfortably accommodated. (I am a 5-foot 3-inch, 110-pound frequent flier.)
 Carol King
 San Diego

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (92%); AIRLINES (77%); AIR FARES (77%); PRICE CUTTING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



350 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; POSTING; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Turnabout Is Fair Play At Brooklyn Bridge Park

BYLINE: By ALEC APPELBAUM

 BODY:
ARE the outlines of an ambitious swing-set-and-slide area lifting sales at One Brooklyn Bridge Park?
 One Brooklyn Bridge, a 449-unit condominium tower at 360 Furman Street, drew brickbats in 2006 when its developer struck a deal to build on public land in exchange for helping subsidize the construction of a park on the Brooklyn waterfront. Last year, anemic sales led the developer, the RAL Companies, to lower prices by 3 percent to 35 percent and to start renting some units. 
 Now the park may be helping the condo, just as other parks are stimulating interest in neighborhoods elsewhere. While the recession froze the property market last year, the park's development corporation continued with site work. So the conical hill near the northern end of the parcel and the extensive playground near the southern end, below One Brooklyn Bridge Park, are now almost ready. Designed like the rest of the park by Michael Van Valkenburgh Associates, the playground evokes the blockbuster aura that condo projects sought in recent years. Its attractions, said Matthew Urbanski, a principal in the design firm, include a trio of ramps called Slide Mountain, a water play area, a bucket-and-shovel-ready feature called Sand Village, and a suite of swings. 
 Elizabeth Mitchell, a spokeswoman for the Empire State Development Corporation, a state agency overseeing the park project, said the Sand Village would almost certainly be the largest sandbox in New York City -- not counting, of course, the public beaches. (Last week, the state agreed to let the city finish building and paying for the park.)
 And the condo -- after RAL hired Developers Group/Tregny to market it last fall -- is suddenly looking more popular. 
 ''You can see the park near completion from there, and that has increased the number of people coming to see it,'' said Highlyann Krasnow, the Developers Group executive who took over marketing the property on Oct. 1. 
 Ms. Krasnow estimated that the building was drawing some 30 visitors a week in early October and had now closed on nearly 40 percent of the units. She has sold 68 units since then -- albeit after lowering asking prices. She says most units under contract offer two, three or four bedrooms.
 And she credits much of the recent interest to the park emerging below. ''We had people who knew about the park first come and check out the building,'' she said. 
 Jonathan J. Miller, the president of the appraisal firm Miller Samuel and a partner in Condominium Recovery, which invests in real estate, said there was no way to measure what a playground brought to the table.
 ''I view a playground amenity as part of a package rather than a la carte,'' Mr. Miller said. ''There isn't this sort of precision to prove that, say, an apartment on Central Park is worth more because a playground is across the street than an apartment on Central Park that is not across the street from a playground.''
 Of course, no playground in New York has ever had a Sand Village. 
 Katie Buckels, a writer and the mother of 7-month-old Maisie, said she had been unable to persuade her fiance even to consider living in One Brooklyn Bridge until they looked down from a model unit at the emerging park. ''It sold him,'' Ms. Buckels said. ''We are overjoyed that it'll be a children's park, and by next year we'll be able to bring her there.'' Her fiance, she added, has even attended a park planning meeting. 
 Ms. Buckels said the couple were about to close on a 2,040-square-foot apartment near the $1.57 million asking price, reduced 25 percent from an earlier listing. 
 Even where ''starchitecture'' rather than stroller access defines a property's appeal, a park can be a scene stealer. Richard Meier's three towers in the far West Village, sometimes called Perry West, are across from Hudson River Park. Two were completed in 2002 and the third in 2006.
 ''When I was working on the original towers, people were in disbelief that a park would ever be delivered,'' said James Lansill, a senior managing director of the Corcoran Sunshine Group, which sold the units. ''When it came time for the third tower, the park was complete -- and people were willing to pay twice the price.''
 That, of course, was then. And it's hard to say how the Hudson River Park's maritime playground, which Mr. Lansill called ''high tech,'' influenced buyers' calculations. 
 But a 2007 study by Friends of Hudson River Park concluded that the park had added 20 percent in value to properties within two blocks of it, with prices rising as park construction became visible. 
 What the architect David Rockwell's much-hyped playground at Burling Slip will mean to nearby properties is up in the air. Burling Slip is a former boat slip at John Street between Front and South Streets, near South Street Seaport. 
 But for a playground to be viewed as an amenity it has to be more than a dirty construction site (unless, of course, you're a small child). Ms. Krasnow is also marketing the Edge in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, which sits on the still-forlorn East River State Park. Buyers have shown ''more excitement'' since state officials started installing a playground there in late fall, she said, but this has not translated into sales.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FUN AND PROFIT: Brooklyn Bridge Park and its planned playground are fueling interest in the One Brooklyn Bridge Park condo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); BEACHES (66%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



351 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Relatives Believe Woman Arrested in Ireland Became Radical Muslim

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON and LIZ ROBBINS; Eamon Quinn contributed reporting from Dublin.

 BODY:
LEADVILLE, Colo. -- An American woman whose family feared that she may have become a radicalized Muslim was detained in Ireland last week in connection with a plot to assassinate a Swedish cartoonist.
 But her relatives said Saturday night that they had learned that the woman, Jamie Paulin-Ramirez, 31, had been released.
 ''She's definitely been released,'' said George Mott, 51, Ms. Paulin-Ramirez's stepfather. But he said that the family was still concerned because they had not heard from her and did not know whether she had regained custody of her 6-year-old son, Christian. 
 Ms. Paulin-Ramirez's mother, Christine Mott, 59, said in a tear-filled interview at her home here that she had learned Thursday that her daughter was being held by Irish officials and that Christian was in state custody.
 ''I am terrified for my daughter,'' Ms. Mott said. ''And that baby is my heart.'' 
 Ms. Paulin-Ramirez had announced her conversion to Islam around last Easter, her mother said, and after that had become increasingly estranged from the family. 
 In October, she moved to Ireland with her son, who was then 5, Ms. Mott said. The Wall Street Journal reported the arrest of Ms. Paulin-Ramirez on Friday. The newspaper, citing unidentified sources, said that she had been arrested in connection with a plot to kill Lars Vilks, whose 2007 cartoon depicted the head of the Prophet Muhammad on a dog's body. 
 The Associated Press quoted an unnamed American official on Saturday as saying that the arrest had been in connection with a plot against Mr. Vilks.
 Many details of the case remained unclear. The police in Ireland arrested seven people on Tuesday who were suspected of having been involved in the plot against the cartoonist. The Irish police issued a statement late Friday saying that three of the seven had been released on bail. Prosecutors were deliberating whether to file charges. 
 Under Irish law, none of the names of those arrested have been released. 
 Last week, a federal indictment in Pennsylvania was unsealed, revealing that Colleen R. LaRose, 46, from suburban Philadelphia, had been arrested there on terror charges in October.
 Prosecutors accused Ms. LaRose, who called herself JihadJane, of linking up, through the Internet, with militants overseas and plotting to carry out a murder. A law enforcement official said that her case was connected to a plot to kill Mr. Vilks. 
 As for Ms. Paulin-Ramirez, Mr. and Ms. Mott said they knew little about any associations she had made since her conversion to Islam. 
 Ms. Mott said that her daughter had been in contact with a man named ''Ali'' via the Internet, and that in the months before she had left for Europe, she had spent more and more time on the computer, even neglecting her son.
 She described her daughter as a lonely and insecure woman, isolated from others since childhood by a hearing problem, but also intelligent and fascinated by other cultures, especially Mexico's. 
 ''She never really liked herself,'' Ms. Mott said, sitting on the couch of her modest home in Leadville, a hard-luck old mining town perched high up in the Colorado Rockies, two hours west of Denver. ''She wanted somebody to love her.''
 Ms. Paulin-Ramirez, fluent in Spanish, was married at least three times, her mother said. Two of the men, Ms. Mott said, including Christian's father -- Ms. Paulin-Ramirez's second husband -- were Mexican citizens. Christian's father was deported, Ms. Mott said, and has not been in contact with the family for years.
 Ms. Mott first filed a missing-person report on her daughter and grandson with the Leadville Police Department on Sept. 14. The police investigated, but dropped the case after Ms. Mott told them on Oct. 6 that she had been in contact with Ms. Paulin-Ramirez and Christian, who were in Ireland.
 In late September, officials located Ms. Paulin-Ramirez's car, a 2005 Pontiac Bonneville that she had recently purchased, in the economy lot at Denver International Airport.
 Islam was a point of tension in the Mott household even before Ms. Paulin-Ramirez's conversion, her stepfather said.
 Mr. Mott described himself as a Sunni Muslim who embraced Islam after his childhood in Detroit. He said that after 9/11, Ms. Paulin-Ramirez denounced him and all Muslims. 
 ''She figured we were all killers and murderers,'' Mr. Mott said.
 But after her own her conversion last year, she denounced him again, he said, this time for not being Muslim enough because he did not pray openly and at appointed times. 
 Ms. Mott said she had been able to speak to her grandson on the phone in recent months and that he had sometimes said things that troubled her.
 She said she had told her daughter, ''I am sick and tired of being told by this baby that Christians are going to burn in hell.''
 According to Ms. Mott, Ms. Paulin-Ramirez replied, ''We're just teaching him the truth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jamie Paulin-Ramirez with her mother, Christine Mott, and her son Christian. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTINE MOTT VIA THE DENVER POST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); ASSASSINATION (78%); RELIGION (78%); MURDER (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); INDICTMENTS (70%); BAIL (65%); STEPPARENTS (56%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

PERSON: COLLEEN LAROSE (JIHAD JANE) (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) IRELAND (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



352 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: How Men's Overconfidence Hurts Them as Investors

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
MEN and women invest differently, a growing body of research has found. And in at least one important respect, women may be better at it.
 The latest data comes from Vanguard, the mutual fund company. Among 2.7 million people with I.R.A.'s at the company, it found that during the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, men were much more likely than women to sell their shares at stock market lows. Those sales presumably meant big losses -- and missing the start of the market rally that began a year ago. 
 Male investors, as a group, appear to be overconfident, said John Ameriks, head of Vanguard Investment Counseling and Research and a co-author of the study. ''There's been a lot of academic research suggesting that men think they know what they're doing, even when they really don't know what they're doing,'' he said. 
 Women, on the other hand, appear more likely to acknowledge when they don't know something -- like the direction of the stock market or of the price of a stock or a bond.
 Staying the course and minimizing costs -- selling high and buying low, if you trade at all -- are the classic characteristics of good long-term, buy-and-hold investors. But during the financial crisis, the Vanguard study showed, men were more likely than women to trade -- and to do so at the wrong times.
 That fits the patterns found in path-breaking research by Brad M. Barber of the University of California, Davis, and Terrance Odean, now at the University of California, Berkeley. In a 2001 study titled, ''Boys Will Be Boys: Gender, Overconfidence and Common Stock Investment,'' they analyzed the investing behavior of more than 35,000 households from a large discount brokerage firm. All else being equal, men traded stocks nearly 50 percent more often than women. This added trading drove up the men's costs and lowered their returns.
 The economists found that while both sexes reduced net returns through trading, men did so by 0.94 percentage points more per year.
 In a telephone interview, Professor Barber said, ''In general, overconfident investors are going to be interpreting what's going on around them and feeling they are able make decisions that they're really not equipped to make.'' 
 Short-term financial news often amounts to little more than meaningless ''noise,'' he said. Far more than women, men try to make sense out of this noise, and to no avail.
 Of course, gender generalizations must be taken with caution: they clearly don't apply to all men or all women. ''The differences among women and the differences among men are much greater than the differences between men and women,'' he said.
 Nevertheless, numerous studies show that men are more prone to make this particular mistake than women. 
 Women have also been shown to be more risk-averse than men. In portfolio selection, women tend to have a greater preference for fixed-income investments. That could cause their portfolio returns to lag over the long run, assuming that stocks outperform bonds -- though in a shaky market like the one of the last decade, this greater caution might be beneficial. 
 Selling volatile stocks in a down market -- as male I.R.A. investors did more often than women, according to the Vanguard data -- might seem to protect a portfolio. But that isn't necessarily so. Selling before the market falls and buying after it falls is the smart move. For long-term investors, though, the best strategy may be to ignore short-term market movements (perhaps rebalancing a diversified portfolio every so often). 
 Gender differences appear to extend to other financial behavior. For example, women who are C.E.O.'s and company directors tend to pay a lower premium in corporate takeovers, saving their shareholders a bundle, according to a 2008 study of mergers and acquisitions by Maurice D. Levi, Kai Li and Feng Zhang of the University of British Columbia. 
 What explains these differences? The answer isn't clear.
 ''Is it biological, or cultural?'' Professor Barber asked. ''Nature or nurture? At this point, we don't know.''
 Plenty of research is under way, though. Over the last five years, brain-imaging technology has made it possible to determine ''what is happening in the brain just before people make financial decisions,'' said Brian Knutson, a Stanford psychologist and neuroscientist.
 Researchers have found that activating the nucleus accumbens -- a brain region that is stimulated when you eat delicious food or look at an attractive person -- can affect financial risk-taking. When young Stanford men were shown pictures of partially clothed men and women kissing, he said, that region of their brains was activated. And when they were then given financial tests, the men became more likely to ''make high-risk gambles.'' 
 Women didn't respond much to the same pictures, he said; it's possible the researchers didn't test enough women or that they haven't found the right stimuli. 
 Others studying the effects of hormones on financial behavior have found correlations between testosterone and risk-taking.
 Alexandra Bernasek, a professor of economics at Colorado State University, said that the weight of history -- enormous gender disparities in earnings, wealth, power and social status -- might explain many behavioral differences. It's also possible, she said, that evolutionary psychology accounts for some of them. Before the dawn of history, aggressive risk-taking might have given men an advantage in finding mates, she said, while women might have become more risk-averse to protect their offspring. 
 Science may eventually provide some answers. In the meantime, she said, it would be a mistake to ''force women into riskier financial behavior'' that may be inappropriate, both for them and for society at large. 
 ''Excessive risk-taking has gotten all of us into a lot of trouble,'' she said. ''That's certainly one
 of the lessons of the financial crisis.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MEN (90%); COMMON STOCK (78%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



353 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Partying To Change The World

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Maybe the most common question I get from readers is: What can I do?
 They've read about malaria, or mass rape, or AIDS orphans, and they want to make a difference. Should they call the White House? Write a check? Howl in hopeless despair?
 There's never a perfect answer, but here's one ingenious approach: Throw a party! 
 Let's back up. In 2004, a Colorado woman named Torkin Wakefield, a Peace Corps veteran with a lifetime of experience in aid work, was temporarily living in Uganda. Her daughter, Devin Hibbard, then just out of graduate school, came to visit, and they strolled together through a slum in Kampala, the capital.
 They stumbled upon a woman named Millie Akena making jewelry beads out of trash paper outside her mud-walled home. They bought a few necklaces from Millie, for about 75 cents each. 
 Over the next few days, mother and daughter received many compliments on the necklaces -- especially when they explained where the beads came from. Jewelry from garbage!
 Hmm. A gleam in their eyes, Torkin and Devin returned to the slum, asked Millie to gather her friends and bought up more than 225 necklaces.
 American friends loved the beads. So Torkin and Devin, with their friend Ginny Jordan, formed BeadforLife. It's a nonprofit seeking to promote entrepreneurship through an international jewelry manufacturing operation. 
 They returned to Uganda to work with the women on improving jewelry designs and assuring quality. To cut costs, they asked friends traveling back to the United States to smuggle bags of necklaces in their suitcases.
 Then they began marketing the jewelry through bead parties in the United States -- a bit like Tupperware parties. Typically, one woman invites her friends, and they come to her home to buy necklaces, bracelets and earrings for between $5 and $30. Last year alone, Torkin says, there were 3,000 of these parties, attended by about 100,000 people.
 ''It's not a handout; we're totally opposed to that,'' said Devin, who is now based in Uganda for the project. ''This is a symbol for us of women really working hard.''
 BeadforLife recruits women who are earning $1 a day or less, and who seem particularly hard-working and entrepreneurial. Once enrolled, they get training in how to cut strips of scrap paper, roll them tightly, glue them and seal them -- and, presto, a beautiful bead. 
 The beads are not painted, and their color comes from the paper itself (with writing sometimes faintly visible). Magazine ads and aid group brochures are prized for their rich colors. Torkin remembers wincing when she saw women making beads from brochures explaining how mothers can prevent AIDS transmission to their babies. ''I just hope that someone had looked at them before they were cut up,'' she said.
 Bead makers earn about $200 per month, half of which is deposited in brand-new savings accounts (one huge problem for the world's poor is that they lack a safe way to save). The women are also encouraged to trade their beads to the program for antimalarial bed nets, condoms, deworming medicine and family planning supplies. 
 The centerpiece of the 18-month BeadforLife program is training bead makers to start small businesses. They get coaching in business management, and some learn trades like making jam or raising chickens.
 The bead makers get about $600 to open their own shops or start some other small business, and after a year and a half they graduate and new bead makers are enrolled. The aim is not to create lifelong jewelry manufacturers, but to turn women into bustling entrepreneurs. 
 These days, Torkin and Devin are no longer smuggling their merchandise (it turned out that the necklaces weren't subject to American duty, they say, so subterfuge was unnecessary). Their biggest challenge is how to manage $4 million in annual jewelry sales so that it makes the most difference.
 BeadforLife reflects several fascinating trends in the battle against global poverty. One is the increasing interest in using businesses and entrepreneurship to create jobs and a more sustainable economic liftoff. A second is a focus on women, because of evidence that they are more likely than men to invest business profits in their children's education and health. A third is the growing attempt to engage American supporters by asking them to do something other than just writing checks.
 Increasingly, Torkin and Devin have also been using the bead parties to try to educate the jewelry buyers about Africa. To go with the beads, they've developed a curriculum on global poverty for American schools. They've also been taking Americans to Africa to see the work firsthand. 
 ''At first, we thought BeadforLife was just for Ugandans,'' Torkin said. ''Then we realized that a lot of this was about helping Americans get involved.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORPHANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIDS & HIV (89%); MALARIA (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); JEWELRY (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MFG (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); SMUGGLING (69%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (64%)

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KAMPALA, UGANDA (79%) UGANDA (93%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



354 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LETTER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: Not A Solution

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re: Mortgages, ''Help for First-Time Buyers,'' March 7: 
 What morons want to issue mortgages to prospective borrowers who can put down only 3 percent, and have low credit scores and modest incomes?
 It's this type of liberal government policy that promotes increased loan losses and our current real estate debacle. I'm not a social engineer or a bleeding heart, but a person who believes in sound credit policy. Folks who have little ''skin'' in the housing game and a demonstrated, soft personal economics profile are weak credit risks.
 America needs to rid itself of politicians who propose ridiculous social engineering programs where the ultimate result is putting the loan write-downs on our backs and our children's backs.
 Corrington Hwong
 Princeton, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LIBERALISM (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ENGINEERING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



355 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Rockies Are Climbing Mountain Again

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

 BODY:
TUCSON -- The Colorado Rockies stormed into the 2007 World Series, winning 21 of 22 games, but they were not really ready to be there. As quickly as they reached the summit, they tumbled.
 ''We got hot at the end and ran it all the way to the World Series,'' said their star shortstop, Troy Tulowitzki. ''It was just kind of a momentum thing.''
 The Rockies were swept by the Boston Red Sox that October. They lost 88 games the next season. They started poorly in 2009 and cost their manager, Clint Hurdle, his job. Their pennant seemed like a fluke. 
 The truth is that the Rockies had built something lasting, rigidly following a careful plan to succeed at any altitude. After rallying to win the National League wild card last season, they are poised to prove it now. 
 ''We see them so much in the season, and in spring training and instructional league,'' said Josh Byrnes, the general manager of the Arizona Diamondbacks, who also train in Tucson. ''One through 40, their talent probably runs as deep as anyone. They have a lot of depth, and over a long season, that really shows up.''
 Byrnes was the assistant general manager to Dan O'Dowd in Colorado in 2000 and 2001, part of the long stretch when the Rockies searched for a winning formula in Denver. O'Dowd had gone there in 1999 after helping build a winner with the midmarket Cleveland Indians. His struggles with Colorado took the sheen off his reputation.
 The Rockies finished two games over .500 in 2000, then had six losing seasons. They were last or next to last in earned run average in each of O'Dowd's first six years, and they struggled for an identity.
 After first trying to bludgeon teams with power hitters, the Rockies splurged for the free-agent starters Mike Hampton and Denny Neagle. They flopped. Then the Rockies emphasized speed and defense, but nothing changed in the standings. It was a mile-high riddle that consumed O'Dowd and his staff.
 ''I searched so hard for the answers that I think I created bigger problems than might have even been there,'' O'Dowd said. ''I attempted to rely so much on my intellect that I ignored some of the basic principles of what makes good organizations successful. I gave all that up and stopped trying to reinvent the wheel. And then the humidor came along, which was a godsend.''
 For years, O'Dowd figured, the game balls at Coors Field were too dry from the low humidity. Since 2002, when the Rockies began storing baseballs in the humidor -- set at 70 degrees, with 50 percent humidity -- conditions have normalized.
 ''It's probably the fairest ballpark I've ever pitched at,'' closer Huston Street said. ''Yeah, it's a big field, but the hitters have gaps. We feel like we have an advantage, as pitchers, with the outfield we run out there. And with the humidor, when I gave up home runs there, they deserved to be home runs.''
 Even so, Coors Field is still geared for offense, and many hitters thrive there. The best example, perhaps, is Matt Holliday, whose career average in Denver is .357. Over all it is .318. 
 Holliday was the runner-up for the Most Valuable Player award in 2007. The next year, he rejected the Rockies' offer to extend his contract for four years and $80 million.
 A hallmark of the Rockies' philosophy is payroll efficiency, a Baseball Prospectus metric that predicts how many wins a team should have based on payroll and market size. From 2006 through 2009, the Rockies ranked first in the N.L., operating 28 percent better than the average team.
 O'Dowd framed it in terms of principles, not economics. He praised Holliday's character, but said that if the Rockies had extended their payroll to keep him, it would have clashed with their team-first message to the clubhouse. 
 ''Ultimately, the money became more important than the team, and they knew that,'' O'Dowd said. ''So that was very much a defining decision for us.''
 The Rockies traded Holliday to Oakland in a deal that helped immediately. They got Street, who earned 35 saves, and outfielder Carlos Gonzalez, who ignited the team at the plate and in the field. The Rockies were 53-17 when he started, and he hit .588 in the division series loss to Philadelphia.
 Gonzalez, like center fielder Dexter Fowler, is a strong outfielder with speed, part of the Rockies' emphasis on athleticism. First baseman Todd Helton and outfielder Seth Smith were quarterbacks in the Southeastern Conference. Fowler was recruited by Harvard and Dartmouth to play baseball and basketball. The switch-hitting Eric Young Jr., a second baseman and outfielder, had 303 stolen bases in the minors.
 ''Anytime you're an athlete on a baseball field, it gives you a lot more ability to play the game freely and also play any position,'' said Tulowitzki, who also starred in basketball in high school. ''We have some athletic guys that cover some ground in the outfield, and we have some infielders that are big guys but still mobile.''
 Manager Jim Tracy shrewdly deployed the young and versatile roster, which is especially important given the effects of the altitude and the need for rest. Position players have been helped by recognizing that, but pitchers are told to ignore it. Bob Apodaca is starting his eighth season as the Rockies' pitching coach, long enough to instill a mind-set throughout the organization. 
 ''Get rid of the myths and be comfortable in your surroundings,'' Apodaca said, repeating what he tells pitchers. ''All the things you have heard about what you can't do and what this ballpark and the altitude do to you -- deal with it. Don't use it as an excuse.''
 The four best team E.R.A.'s in Rockies history have come in the last four seasons. Their ace, Ubaldo Jimenez, led the league in pitches per start last season, reeling off 25 consecutive starts of at least six innings. Aaron Cook was dependable, as usual, and Jorge de la Rosa and Jason Hammel broke through. The left-hander Jeff Francis, recovered from shoulder surgery, replaces the departed Jason Marquis.
 Five Rockies pitchers made at least 27 starts last season, and O'Dowd acknowledged that may never happen again. He credited the pitchers' deliveries for keeping them healthy, but this spring training, relievers Rafael Betancourt and Street have been slowed by shoulder trouble.
 The starters could have a heavy workload again, but that was part of Tracy's directive when he took over last May. A former manager for the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Pittsburgh Pirates who started last season as the bench coach, Tracy implored pitchers to go deeper in games. He helped their chances by using better defenders like Gonzalez, Smith and third baseman Ian Stewart.
 The Rockies were 74-42 for Tracy, who was named manager of the year for the turnaround. But the pieces had been in place, and the foundation was solid. Tracy nudged the team back on course, and the players responded.
 ''They have re-established their identity,'' Tracy said. ''Now where are they going to go with it? That's the challenge.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: General Manager Dan O'Dowd and Manager Jim Tracy helped lead Colorado, which made the 2007 World Series, to the N.L. wild card in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ANDRIESKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO ROCKIES (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (57%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (54%) COLORADO, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); OHIO, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



356 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: The Obesity-Hunger Paradox

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

 BODY:
WHEN most people think of hunger in America, the images that leap to mind are of ragged toddlers in Appalachia or rail-thin children in dingy apartments reaching for empty bottles of milk. 
 Once, maybe.
 But a recent survey found that the most severe hunger-related problems in the nation are in the South Bronx, long one of the country's capitals of obesity. Experts say these are not parallel problems persisting in side-by-side neighborhoods, but plagues often seen in the same households, even the same person: the hungriest people in America today, statistically speaking, may well be not sickly skinny, but excessively fat.
 Call it the Bronx Paradox.
 ''Hunger and obesity are often flip sides to the same malnutrition coin,'' said Joel Berg, executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger. ''Hunger is certainly almost an exclusive symptom of poverty. And extra obesity is one of the symptoms of poverty.'' 
 The Bronx has the city's highest rate of obesity, with residents facing an estimated 85 percent higher risk of being obese than people in Manhattan, according to Andrew G. Rundle, an epidemiologist at the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University.
 But the Bronx also faces stubborn hunger problems. According to a surveyreleased in January by the Food Research and Action Center, an antihunger group, nearly 37 percent of residents in the 16th Congressional District, which encompasses the South Bronx, said they lacked money to buy food at some point in the past 12 months. That is more than any other Congressional district in the country and twice the national average, 18.5 percent, in the fourth quarter of 2009.
 Such studies present a different way to look at hunger: not starving, but ''food insecure,'' as the researchers call it (the Department of Agriculture in 2006 stopped using the word ''hunger'' in its reports). This might mean simply being unable to afford the basics, unable to get to the grocery or unable to find fresh produce among the pizza shops, doughnut stores and fried-everything restaurants of East Fordham Road. 
 Precious, the character at the center of the Academy Award-winning movie by the same name, would probably count as food insecure even though she is severely obese (her home, Harlem, ranks 49th on the survey's list, with 24.1 percent of residents saying they lacked money for food in the previous year). There she is stealing a family-size bucket of fried chicken from a fast-food restaurant. For breakfast.
 That it is greasy chicken, and that she vomits it up in a subsequent scene, points to the problem that experts call a key bridge between hunger and obesity: the scarcity of healthful options in low-income neighborhoods and the unlikelihood that poor, food-insecure people like Precious would choose them. 
 Full-service, reasonably priced supermarkets are rare in impoverished neighborhoods, and the ones that are there tend to carry more processed foods than seasonal fruits and vegetables. A 2008 study by the city government showed that 9 of the Bronx's 12 community districts had too few supermarkets, forcing huge swaths of the borough to rely largely on unhealthful, but cheap, food. 
 ''When you're just trying to get your calorie intake, you're going to get what fills your belly,'' said Mr. Berg, the author of ''All You Can Eat: How Hungry Is America?'' ''And that may make you heavier even as you're really struggling to secure enough food.''
 For the center's survey, Gallup asked more than 530,000 people across the nation a single question: ''Have there been times in the past 12 months when you did not have enough money to buy food that you or your family needed?''
 The unusually large sample size allowed researchers to zero in on trouble spots like the South Bronx.
 New York's 10th Congressional District, which zigzags across Brooklyn and includes neighborhoods like East New York and Bedford-Stuyvesant, ranked sixth in the survey, and Newark ranked ninth, both with about 31 percent of residents showing food hardship. (At the state level, the South is the hungriest: Mississippi tops the list at 26 percent, followed by Arkansas, Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, Louisiana, the Carolinas and Oklahoma. New York ranks 27th, with 17.4 percent; New Jersey is 41st, with 15.5 percent; and Connecticut is 47th, with 14.6 percent.) 
 The survey, conducted over the past two years, showed that food hardship peaked at 19.5 percent nationwide in the fourth quarter of 2008, as the economic crisis gripped the nation. It dropped to 17.9 percent by the summer of 2009, then rose to 18.5 percent. 
 Though this was the first year that the center did such a survey, it used a question similar to one the Department of Agriculture has been asking for years. The most recent survey by the agency, from 2008, found that 14.6 percent of Americans had low to very low food security. 
 Bloomberg administration officials see hunger and obesity as linked problems that can be addressed in part by making healthful food more affordable. 
 ''It's a subtle, complicated link, but they're very much linked, so the strategic response needs to be linked in various ways,'' said Linda I. Gibbs, the deputy mayor for health and human services. ''We tackle the challenge on three fronts -- providing income supports, increasing healthy options and encouraging nutritious behavior.'' 
 To that end, the city offers a Health Bucks program that encourages people to spend their food stamps at farmers' markets by giving them an extra $2 coupon for every $5 spent there. 
 The city has also created initiatives to send carts selling fresh fruits and vegetables to poor neighborhoods, and to draw grocery stores carrying fresh fruit and produce to low-income areas by offering them tax credits and other incentives. The city last month announced the first recipients of those incentives: a Foodtown store that burned down last year will be rebuilt and expanded in the Norwood section of the Bronx, and a Western Beef store near the Tremont subway station will be expanded. 
 But the Bronx's hunger and obesity problems are not simply related to the lack of fresh food. Experts point to a swirling combination of factors that are tied to, and exacerbated by, poverty. 
 Poor people ''often work longer hours and work multiple jobs, so they tend to eat on the run,'' said Dr. Rundle of Columbia. ''They have less time to work out or exercise, so the deck is really stacked against them.''
 Indeed, the food insecurity study is hardly the first statistical measure in which the Bronx lands on the top -- or, in reality, the bottom. The borough's 14.1 percent unemployment rate is the highest in the state. It is one of the poorest counties in the nation. And it was recently ranked the unhealthiest of New York's 62 counties.
 ''If you look at rates of obesity, diabetes, poor access to grocery stores, poverty rates, unemployment and hunger measures, the Bronx lights up on all of those,'' said Triada Stampas of the Food Bank for New York City. ''They're all very much interconnected.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FAST FOOD: Experts say a key bridge between hunger and obesity is the scarcity of healthful options in low-income areas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHIC: Can't Afford Food: The 16th Congressional District in the South Bronx had more people reporting they couldn't afford food than any other district in the country, according to a Gallup survey. Nearby are districts at the opposite end of the spectrum
 Congressional districts with the highest and lowest proportion of respondents with food hardship (Source: Food Research and Action Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUNGER IN SOCIETY (91%); OBESITY (91%); FOOD SECURITY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); MALNUTRITION (78%); STARVATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); RESTAURANTS (70%); FAST FOOD (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (66%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (66%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (65%); RETAIL BAKERIES (60%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD RESEARCH & ACTION CENTER (82%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



357 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Fraud Inquiries Point to Lapses In Iraq Projects

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

 BODY:
Investigators looking into corruption involving reconstruction in Iraq say they have opened more than 50 new cases in six months by scrutinizing large cash transactions -- involving banks, land deals, loan payments, casinos and even plastic surgery -- made by some of the Americans involved in the nearly $150 billion program. 
 Some of the cases involve people who are suspected of having mailed tens of thousands of dollars to themselves from Iraq, or of having stuffed the money into duffel bags and suitcases when leaving the country, the federal investigators said. In other cases, millions of dollars were moved through wire transfers. Suspects then used cash to buy BMWs, Humvees and expensive jewelry, or to pay off enormous casino debts. 
 Some suspects also tried to conceal foreign bank accounts in Ghana, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Britain, the investigators said, while in other cases, cash was simply found stacked in home safes.
 There have already been dozens of indictments and convictions for corruption since the 2003 invasion of Iraq. But the new cases seem to confirm what investigators have long speculated: that the chaos, weak oversight and wide use of cash payments in the reconstruction program in Iraq allowed many more Americans who took bribes or stole money to get off scot-free. 
 ''I've had a continuing sense that there is ongoing fraud that we have not been able to nail down,'' said Stuart W. Bowen Jr., who leads the Office of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction, an independent oversight agency. ''This spate of new cases is evidence that that sense was reasonably well placed.'' 
 The cases were uncovered during the first phase of a new, systematic inquiry into financial activities, which investigators said began in earnest last summer. A related investigation of rebuilding funds for Afghanistan began in February.
 Mr. Bowen's office agreed to answer general questions on the new inquiry but declined to divulge the names of the suspects, who include private contractors, military officers and civilian officials.
 Developed in the Treasury Department, the financial monitoring effort goes by the generic name of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, or Fincen, which continually generates data on suspicious financial transactions in support of more than 275 federal and state law enforcement agencies, according to a December report by the Government Accountability Office.
 Stephen Hudak, a spokesman at the Treasury Department for Fincen, said it generated 15 million to 16 million reports a year on suspicious financial activity or major currency transactions, including cash deposits of more than $10,000. He said that transactions in banks, check-cashing outlets, wire services, casinos, stockbrokers' offices and insurance companies were covered.
 ''Basically, we follow dirty money,'' Mr. Hudak said. ''Authorized users can access Fincen's databases to make connections in criminal investigations.''
 Mr. Hudak confirmed that Fincen was being used to investigate reconstruction corruption in Iraq.
 Because the investigation has covered only limited areas in the United States so far, Mr. Bowen said he estimated that dozens of additional cases would be opened by the end of the year. Mr. Bowen, who spoke by phone from Baghdad, described the effort as a ''concerted, focused, forensic financial review involving all the Iraq reconstruction funds.''
 Congress has appropriated about $53 billion for reconstruction projects, and the rest of the money has come from Iraqi assets and international pledges. According to testimony before the Wartime Contracting Commission last month by Arnold Fields, who leads the Office of the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction, Congress has appropriated $51 billion to rebuild that country since 2002.
 John Brummet, the assistant inspector general for audits in that office, said that the office's staff members had been studying the Iraq investigation for nearly a year and that they had started a related effort last month.
 ''What we're trying to do is basically replicate what they've done without having to pay the price of the learning curve,'' Mr. Brummet said.
 Investigations involving the inspector general's office for Iraq's reconstruction have led to 35 indictments and 27 convictions for fraud in numerous forms; the number of convictions rises to 58 when cases pursued by other government agencies are included, according to figures compiled by the Justice Department.
 Mr. Bowen would not comment on whether indictments had yet been written up for the new cases, which numbered 52 by last week. But he said that at least 45 of those had come directly from the forensic effort.
 Wayne White, who until 2005 was a senior intelligence official with the State Department focused on Iraq and is now a scholar with the Middle East Institute in Washington, said he was not surprised that new cases were still turning up.
 Since Iraq's economy collapsed after the 1991 Persian Gulf war, the country's dealings with foreign companies and contractors have been laced with bribery, kickbacks and other fraud, Mr. White said, adding that weak oversight of the reconstruction efforts almost guaranteed that those problems would not be rooted out.
 ''That's been very disappointing, and we've seen it in Afghanistan as well,'' Mr. White said.
 A senior federal official said that some of the new cases appeared to be closely linked to known networks of conspiracy and fraud and were likely to extend investigators' knowledge of cases that had already ended with convictions. Many other cases seem to be entirely new, the official said.
 Mr. Bowen said that many of the new cases involved bribes and kickbacks for awarding lucrative work to contractors, and that in a number of cases, spouses or other relatives of the suspects are accused of setting up fraudulent companies to hide the illicit gains.
 When people who turn up in the net are initially contacted by investigators, the reaction ''runs the gamut,'' Mr. Bowen said. Some deny wrongdoing and others admit to accepting small bribes, which on further investigation rise into hundreds of thousands of dollars.
 One suspect, he said, made the job especially easy on investigators who arrived at his door. ''I've been waiting for you,'' the suspect said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (79%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (79%); WIRE TRANSFERS (78%); BRIBERY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (73%); INDICTMENTS (72%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); INSURANCE (64%); SECURITIES BROKERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (91%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GHANA (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



358 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Taking a Nip Out of the Tuck

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
Are Americans experiencing plastic surgery fatigue?
 The number of tummy tucks, face-lifts, breast implant procedures and other cosmetic plastic surgeries fell by roughly 18 percent last year, the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery reported in a new study last week. 
 The group attributed the decline to the recession. But could there be something else going on? A look at the numbers shows that over the last five years, the number of such surgeries dropped by about 30 percent -- to about 1.5 million in 2009, down from an estimated 2.1 million in 2005.
 The financial crisis has certainly played a role in the recent decline.
 Cosmetic operations like tummy tucks and liposuction are elective surgeries with four- to five-digit price tags that require up-front payments and are typically not covered by insurance.
 And at the height of the plastic surgery boom several years ago, many people simply charged their breast implant surgeries to their credit cards, or applied for special lines of credit to cover such procedures, or took out second mortgages on their homes.
 But now, for many Americans, that kind of easy credit has dried up.
 Physicians in regions like Orange County, Calif., and South Florida, hit hard by the recession, have particularly felt the slowdown in surgeries, said Tom Seery, the president and founder of realself.com, a social-media Web site focused on cosmetic medicine.
 In those regions, Mr. Seery said, people can no longer ''use their house as a piggy bank to spend on significant purchases like a tummy tuck.''
 The statistics reported by the plastic surgery group are not definitive but represent projections based on answers to a questionnaire mailed to 21,000 board-certified medical specialists. About 930 doctors responded.
 Still, the report, which is issued annually, suggests some interesting trends.
 In contrast to surgical procedures, less-expensive nonsurgical treatments -- like laser hair removal or Botox injections to temporarily smooth frown lines between the eyebrows -- have held relatively steady over the last two years.
 Doctors and industry observers say many Americans are still interested in having cosmetic surgery and predict an increase in procedures as soon as the economy recovers.
 But cosmetic operations may never return to the peak levels they enjoyed when TV reality shows like ''Extreme Makeover,'' ''The Swan''and ''Miami Slice'' encouraged people to have multiple procedures at once, said Wendy Lewis, a plastic surgery consultant in Manhattan.
 Now, many Americans are opting for the less-expensive, less-drastic treatments -- like skin-plumping injection and laser treatments in lieu of a face-lift -- Ms. Lewis said.
 Many of these techniques were not available a decade ago as alternatives to plastic surgery, she said, and while less invasive treatments result in shorter-term changes, the results can often look more subtle.
 ''I think there has been a backlash against the total transformation when people wanted to have everything done head to toe,'' she said.
 ''There are too many bad surgical results walking around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIU JIN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) CHART: Work Sites: The Top 10 cosmetic surgeries in 2009 in the United States, according to a study by the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (97%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (93%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (78%); MEDICAL LASERS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); REALITY TELEVISION (71%); HAIR REMOVAL SERVICES (71%); LASERS (68%); SECOND MORTGAGES (67%); SOCIAL MEDIA (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR AESTHETIC PLASTIC SURGERY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



359 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: Law Is Signed to Create A U.S. Tourism Board

BYLINE: By LIONEL BEEHNER

 BODY:
The number of foreign visitors to the United States has dropped about 9 percent since 2000. A new law, which creates a national tourism board, aims to reverse that trend. 
 The Travel Promotion Act, signed into law by President Obama this month, empowers the board to develop ad campaigns and raise awareness of United States security and visa procedures. The board would be partly financed by a $10 fee from foreign visitors who do not need a visa to enter the United States.
 The travel industry has long advocated for a tourism board, arguing that the United States is one of the few industrialized nations without one. A January 2010 study by Oxford Economics, a forecasting and research group in Britain, estimated that a tourism bureau would bring in 1.6 million additional foreign visitors yearly, as well as pump about $4 billion into the economy.
 Critics of the bill say the slump in foreign tourism is not a public relations issue, but rather a result of strict immigration rules that subject visitors to unwelcoming, even humiliating, procedures. LIONEL BEEHNER 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (91%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION (88%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



360 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
Homeownership's Future
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Mom, Apple Pie and Mortgages'' (Economic View, March 7), in which Robert J. Shiller said the nation might look at new methods of housing finance:
 Back in the 1980s, I had a heated conversation with some English friends who insisted that the mortgage interest deduction amounted to welfare for the well-to-do. As a red-blooded American, I maintained that the deduction encourages homeownership, which leads to pride of place, which results in stable neighborhoods. I shook my head in disbelief that anyone would question this sacred deduction. 
 Now, one of my favorite economists says our cultural attitudes about housing might need to change. As an example he cites Switzerland, where a much smaller percentage of residents own their homes. 
 One question, however, stymies me: Who will own all of the new rental housing? The government? Given the current budget morass, I wouldn't want the government to own my doorknob, much less my entire home. Or would it be new private landlords who might boot out long-term tenants in favor of those who can pay higher rent? 
 The mortgage fiasco has left us in a pickle. More people are walking away from mortgage obligations, which creates instability. The fix is to return to the days when people had to prove they had adequate income to make their payments based upon the real value of the property, not some inflated one. Medea Isphording Bern
 San Francisco, March 9
 To the Editor:
 The column did not discuss another benefit to the economy from owning one's home: homeowners spend more money to maintain and improve their investment.
 If we shift toward more of a rent-based culture, many businesses would suffer, including home improvement stores, garden stores, interior design firms and others.
 We need to know all the economic impact before making such a move. 
 Dominique Frizzell
 New Orleans, March 8
 To the Editor:
 Robert J. Shiller presents a powerful message for policy makers and consumers to ponder: Homeownership, long touted by the real estate, homebuilding and financial industries as the American dream, is now a nightmare for millions. 
 Many families were tempted to purchase by teaser loans and the prospect of ever-rising home prices. The column is correct to suggest that it's time to consider alternatives to homeownership for many people -- whether young adults and others who will change jobs and locations, senior citizens who cannot easily maintain a home, or those who just prefer to use their leisure time doing something other than mowing the lawn or waiting for the plumber or roofer. It's also time to shed any notion that renters have no stake in their communities.
 Homeownership has deep roots in our value system, but it isn't for everybody. Morton J. Schussheim
 Washington, March 8
 To the Editor:
 Robert J. Shiller says that homeownership ''has been associated with freedom'' but that renting ''has been linked to the oppression of a landlord.'' 
 But is homeownership really true ownership? Normally, taxation of an asset, such as a stock or a business, applies only at the time of sale. With a home, however, a property tax is assessed while the asset is still in the owner's possession. Curiously, no property tax is applied to the ownership of such items as furniture, clothing or appliances.
 As long as a property tax must be paid on a home, the idea of full homeownership is a myth. A homeowner is simultaneously both an owner and a renter. A question can be asked: Are property-tax authorities oppressive landlords? Richard S. Colman
 Orinda, Calif., March 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (79%); HOME PRICES (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERIOR DECORATING (68%); HOME CENTERS (62%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (62%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERN, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



361 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE NEW POOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2578 words

HEADLINE: In Hard Times, Lured Into Trade School and Debt

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
One fast-growing American industry has become a conspicuous beneficiary of the recession: for-profit colleges and trade schools. 
 At institutions that train students for careers in areas like health care, computers and food service, enrollments are soaring as people anxious about weak job prospects borrow aggressively to pay tuition that can exceed $30,000 a year.
 But the profits have come at substantial taxpayer expense while often delivering dubious benefits to students, according to academics and advocates for greater oversight of financial aid. Critics say many schools exaggerate the value of their degree programs, selling young people on dreams of middle-class wages while setting them up for default on untenable debts, low-wage work and a struggle to avoid poverty. And the schools are harvesting growing federal student aid dollars, including Pell grants awarded to low-income students. 
 ''If these programs keep growing, you're going to wind up with more and more students who are graduating and can't find meaningful employment,'' said Rafael I. Pardo, a professor at Seattle University School of Law and an expert on educational finance. ''They can't generate income needed to pay back their loans, and they're going to end up in financial distress.'' 
 For-profit trade schools have long drawn accusations that they overpromise and underdeliver, but the woeful economy has added to the industry's opportunities along with the risks to students, according to education experts. They say these schools have exploited the recession as a lucrative recruiting device while tapping a larger pool of federal student aid.
 ''They tell people, 'If you don't have a college degree, you won't be able to get a job,' '' said Amanda Wallace, who worked in the financial aid and admissions offices at the Knoxville, Tenn., branch of ITT Technical Institute, a chain of schools that charge roughly $40,000 for two-year associate degrees in computers and electronics. ''They tell them, 'You'll be making beaucoup dollars afterward, and you'll get all your financial aid covered.' ''
 Ms. Wallace left her job at ITT in 2008 after five years because she was uncomfortable with what she considered deceptive recruiting, which she said masked the likelihood that graduates would earn too little to repay their loans.
 As a financial aid officer, Ms. Wallace was supposed to counsel students. But candid talk about job prospects and debt obligations risked the wrath of management, she said.
 ''If you said anything that went against what the recruiter said, they would threaten to fire you,'' Ms. Wallace said. ''The representatives would have already conned them into doing it, and you had to just keep your mouth shut.''
 A spokeswoman for the school's owner, ITT Educational Services, Lauren Littlefield, said the company had no comment. 
 The average annual tuition for for-profit schools this year is about $14,000, according to the College Board. The for-profit educational industry says it is fulfilling a vital social function, supplying job training that provides a way up the economic ladder. 
 ''When the economy is rough and people are threatened with unemployment, they look to education as the way out,'' said Harris N. Miller, president of the Career College Association, which represents approximately 1,400 such institutions. ''We're preparing people for careers.''
 Concerned about aggressive marketing practices, the Obama administration is toughening rules that restrict institutions that receive federal student aid from paying their admissions recruiters on the basis of enrollment numbers. 
 The administration is also tightening regulations to ensure that vocational schools that receive aid dollars prepare students for ''gainful employment.'' Under a proposal being floated by the Department of Education, programs would be barred from loading students with more debt than justified by the likely salaries of the jobs they would pursue.
 ''During a recession, with increased demand for education and more anxiety about the ability to get a job, there is a heightened level of hazard,'' said Robert Shireman, a deputy under secretary of education. ''There is a lot of Pell grant money out there, and we need to make sure it's being used effectively.''
 The administration's push has provoked fierce lobbying from the for-profit educational industry, which is seeking to maintain flexibility in the rules. 
 A Lucrative Business
 The stakes are enormous: For-profit schools have long derived the bulk of their revenue from federal loans and grants, and the percentages have been climbing sharply. 
 The Career Education Corporation, a publicly traded global giant, last year reported revenue of $1.84 billion. Roughly 80 percent came from federal loans and grants, according to BMO Capital Markets, a research and trading firm. That was up from 63 percent in 2007. 
 The Apollo Group -- which owns the for-profit University of Phoenix -- derived 86 percent of its revenue from federal student aid last fiscal year, according to BMO. Two years earlier, it was 69 percent.
 For-profit schools have proved adept at capturing Pell grants, which are a centerpiece of the Obama administration's efforts to make higher education more affordable. The administration increased financing for Pell grants by $17 billion for 2009 and 2010 as part of its $787 billion stimulus package. 
 Two years ago, students at for-profit trade schools received $3.2 billion in Pell grants, according to the Department of Education, less than went to students at two-year public institutions. By the 2011-12 school year, the administration now estimates, students at for-profit schools should receive more than $10 billion in Pell grants, more than their public counterparts. (Those anticipated increases may shrink, depending on the outcome of wrangling in Congress over health care and student lending.) 
 Enrollment at for-profit trade schools expanded about 20 percent a year the last two years, more than double the pace from 2001-7, according to the Career College Association.
 Mr. Miller, the association's president, said for-profit schools were securing large numbers of Pell grants because their financial aid offices were diligent and because the schools served many low-income students.
 But financial aid experts say the surge of federal money reaching such institutions reflects something else: their aggressive, sometimes deceitful recruiting practices.
 Jeffrey West was working at a pet store near Philadelphia, earning about $8 an hour, when he saw advertisements for training programs offered by WyoTech, a chain of trade schools owned by Corinthian Colleges Inc., a publicly traded company that last year reported revenue of $1.3 billion. 
 After Mr. West called the school, an admissions representative drove to his house to sell him on classes in auto body refinishing and upholstering technology, a nine-month program that cost about $30,000.
 Mr. West blanched at the tuition, he recalled, but the representative assured him the program amounted to an antidote to hard economic times.
 ''They said they had a very high placement rate, somewhere around 90 percent,'' he said. ''That was one of the key factors that caused me to go there. They said I would be earning $50,000 to $70,000 a year.''
 Some 14 months after he completed the program, Mr. West, 21, has failed to find an automotive job. He is working for $12 an hour weatherizing foreclosed houses. 
 With loan payments reaching $600 a month, he is working six and seven days a week to keep up.
 ''I've got $30,000 in student loans, and I really don't have much to show for it,'' he said. ''It's really frustrating when you're trying to better yourself and you wind up back at Square One.''
 Corinthian says it bars its recruiters from making promises about pay. 
 ''The majority of our students graduate,'' said a spokeswoman, Anna Marie Dunlap, in a written statement. ''Most see a significant earnings increase.''
 The increase in market opportunities for the for-profit education industry comes as governments spend less on education. In states like California, community colleges have been forced to cut classes just when demand is greatest.
 ''This is creating a very ripe environment for the for-profit schools to pick off more students,'' said Lauren Asher, president of the Institute for College Access & Success, a nonprofit research group based in California that seeks to make higher education more affordable. ''The risks of exploitation are higher, and the potential rewards of those practices are higher.''
 For-profit culinary schools have long drawn criticism for leading students to rack up large debts. Now, they are enjoying striking growth. Enrollment at the 17 culinary schools of the Career Education Corporation -- most of them operated under the name Le Cordon Bleu -- swelled by 31 percent in the final months of last year from a year earlier.
 When Andrew Newburg called the Le Cordon Bleu College of Culinary Arts in Portland, Ore., to seek information, he was feeling pressure to start a new career. It was 2008, and his Florida mortgage business was a casualty of the housing bust. An associate degree in culinary arts from a school in the food-obsessed Pacific Northwest seemed like a portal to a new career. 
 The tuition was daunting -- $41,000 for a 15-month or 21-month program -- but he said the admissions recruiter portrayed it as the entrance price to a stable life.
 ''The recruiter said, 'The way the economy is, with the recession, you need to have a safe way to be sure you will always have income,' '' Mr. Newburg said. '' 'In today's market, chefs will always have a job, because people will always have to eat.' ''
 According to Mr. Newburg, the recruiter promised the school would help him find a good job, most likely as a line cook, paying as much as $38,000 a year. 
 Last summer, halfway through his program and already carrying debts of about $10,000, Mr. Newburg was alarmed to see many graduates taking jobs paying as little as $8 an hour washing dishes and busing tables, he said. He dropped out to avoid more debt. 
 ''They have a basic money-making machine,'' Mr. Newburg said.
 More Bills Than Paychecks
 Career Education says admissions staff are barred from making promises about jobs or salaries. The school requires students to sign disclosures stating that they understand that its programs afford no guarantees.
 But promotional materials convey a sense of promise.
 ''Our students are given the tools needed to become the future leaders in the industry,'' proclaims the Le Cordon Bleu Web site. ''Many graduates have attained positions of responsibility, visibility, and entrepreneurship soon after completing their studies.''
 The job placement results that the school files with accrediting agencies suggest a different outcome. From July 2007 to June 2008, students who graduated from the culinary arts associate degree program landed jobs that paid an average of $21,000 a year, or about $10 an hour. Oregon's minimum wage is $8.40 an hour.
 The job placement list is cited in a class-action lawsuit filed against the Portland school -- previously known as Western Culinary Institute -- by graduates who allege fraud, breach of contract and unlawful trade practices. Executives at Career Education denied the allegations while asserting it would be wrong to judge the school on the basis of its graduates' first jobs. 
 ''You go out in the industry and work your way up,'' said Brian R. Williams, the company's senior vice president for culinary arts.
 On a recent morning at the campus in Portland, hundreds of students donning chef's whites labored in demonstration kitchens stocked with stainless steel countertops and commercial gas ranges. A chef inspected plates of boeuf Bourgogne and risotto Milanese. Students melted and pulled sugar into multicolored ribbons. Others used a chainsaw to sculpture blocks of ice into decorative centerpieces. 
 ''It's employable skills; that's what we teach people here,'' said the school president, Jon Alberts. ''We try to give them as much of an industry experience in the classroom as possible.''
 But several local chefs said the program merely simulated what students could learn in entry-level jobs.
 ''When they graduate and come in the kitchen, I tell them, 'I'm going to treat you like you don't know anything,' '' said Kenneth Giambalvo, executive chef at Bluehour, an upscale restaurant in Portland's Pearl District. ''It doesn't really give them any edge.''
 What the school does give many students is debt, often at double-digit interest rates -- debt that even bankruptcy cannot erase without a lengthy, low-odds legal proceeding.
 When TJ Williams arrived in Portland from his home in Utah to enroll at Le Cordon Bleu in 2007, he was shocked by the terms of the aid package the school had arranged for him: One loan, for nearly $14,000, carried a $7,327 ''finance charge'' and a 13 percent interest rate. 
 ''They told me that halfway through the program, I could probably refinance to a lower rate,'' he said.
 When he tried to refinance, the school turned him down, he says.
 Career Education declined to discuss Mr. Williams's case, citing privacy restrictions and saying he had not signed a waiver. 
 Mr. Williams has been jobless since last fall and recently returned to Utah, where he moved in with his mother.
 After Graduation
 The Career Education Corporation e-mailed The New York Times names and contact information for four graduates ''with whom we hope you'll touch base for important perspective.'' One came with a wrong number. A second had graduated 15 years ago. 
 A third, Cherie Thompson, called the program ''a really positive experience'' but declined to discuss her debts or earnings. The fourth, Ericsel Tan, graduated in 2003 and later earned $42,000 a year overseeing catering at a convention center near Seattle. He said his success reflected his seven years of kitchen experience prior to culinary school.
 Career Education notes that only 5.9 percent of the federal loans to students at the Western Culinary Institute that began to come due in 2007 -- the latest available data -- are listed in default by the Department of Education.
 But default rates have traditionally reflected only those borrowers who fail to pay in the first two years payments are due.
 The Department of Education has begun calculating default rates for three years. By that yardstick, Western Culinary's default rate more than doubles, to 12.5 percent.
 For-profit schools have ramped up their own lending to students to replace loans formerly extended by Sallie Mae, the student lending giant.
 These loans are risky: Career Education and Corinthian recently told investors they had set aside roughly half the money allocated this year for private lending to cover anticipated bad debts. 
 Financial aid experts say such high rates of expected default prove that graduates will not earn enough to make their payments, yet the loans make sense for the for-profit school industry by enabling the flow of taxpayer funds to their coffers: they satisfy federal requirements that at least 10 percent of tuition money come from students directly or from private sources. 
 ''They're making so much money off their federal student loans and grants that they can afford to write off their own loans,'' said Ms. Asher of the Institute for College Access & Success.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Susana Holloway of Le Cordon Bleu's culinary school in Portland, Ore., where a 21-month program costs $41,000. (A1)
The Career Education Corporation's culinary schools, many called Le Cordon Bleu, teach skills like ice sculpture. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) CHART: Living Off Loans: Federal student loans have become a bigger part of the revenue of many for-profit colleges and trade schools. (Sources: BMO Capital Markets
 company reports) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%)

COMPANY: ITT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES INC (50%)

TICKER: ESI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (50%); NAICS611310 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (59%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (53%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



362 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Time Bandits

BYLINE: By RANDY COHEN

 BODY:
As a manager at a large company, I work far more than the required 40 hours a week but report only 40. If I reported my actual hours, I could be penalized financially for letting my projects run overbudget. Company policy states that ''intentionally submitting inaccurate time reports is an integrity issue.'' I see why this forbids claiming to have worked when I did not, but is there a problem with simply declining to mention some hours when I did work? NAME WITHHELD, NEW JERSEY
 Time-card shenanigans usually run in the other direction: disreputable employees exaggerate their hours worked to gain higher pay. I suspect that your company's policy is meant to thwart that sort of chicanery. In a sense, if you choose to put in extra hours of unpaid labor, that's nobody's business but yours. (And, perhaps, your therapist's. And your neglected family's.) But looked at more closely, your false reporting can harm other people, so you should forswear it. 
 By underreporting your hours, you create a false sense of your efficiency. The company now believes that you are able to complete your weekly tasks in 40 hours. But you are not. Your deception thwarts the company's reasonable interest in assessing your performance.
 It could be that the company knows perfectly well that nobody could discharge the duties of your job in 40 hours a week. By, in effect, collaborating in this cynical charade, you hurt other managers who might be given similarly impossible assignments. More benignly, the company might simply have underestimated how much time your work requires, a misconception it can't correct without reliable data. Are your bosses the deceived or the deceivers? It's impossible to tell from here. Either way, you'd do better to report honestly.
 I can understand your motives for concealing your true performance. These are tough economic times, and few of us can risk losing a job or shrinking a paycheck. But I can't endorse your habitually filing misleading job reports.
 I borrowed ''Juliet Naked,'' the latest Nick Hornby novel, from my local library a few weeks ago. It is due today. Unfortunately I'm only about halfway through and can't renew it, because it is on hold for another patron. I'm willing to pay the penalty, 25 cents a day, so I can keep reading. May I do that, or must I return it knowing that someone else is waiting for it? RACHEL BUCCI, SALEM, ORE.
 You must return the book. That 25-cent charge is not a rental fee but a goad to return it promptly. As you note, other people are waiting for the book, hence the library's decision not to let you renew it. That the fee is inadequate to provide a proper incentive, that the library does not instead charge $25 a day or $250 a day or impose a vigorous flogging (as described in the no-doubt-renewable ''Mutiny on the Bounty''), bespeaks ineffectual enforcement tactics, not the freedom to keep a popular book past its due date. Similarly, the willingness and wherewithal to pay a speeding ticket does not make it O.K. to speed. (That's why some countries make the price of a speeding ticket proportional to the daredevil's income.) The injunction ''Don't do the crime if you can't do the time'' is specious. It should be ''Don't do the crime.'' The public library is such a splendid institution; you should honor what I suspect you know to be the intent of this rule rather than embrace some sort of money-talks philosophy.
 update: Bucci returned the book. She intends to check it out again.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATTHEW WOODSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYEE TIMEKEEPING (78%); DISMISSALS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LIBRARIES (65%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALEM, OR, USA (51%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



363 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Jeffrey Katz

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Katz, 62, is the chief executive and principal owner of Sherwood Equities Inc., which has developed and manages more than $3 billion in commercial real estate.
 The properties include the iconic One Times Square, home of the New Year's Eve crystal ball drop, and Two Times Square. The Sherwood Outdoor division controls the illuminated signs on both buildings.
 Q Last month, Mayor Bloomberg decided to make permanent the pedestrian areas on Broadway, from Times Square to Herald Square. Are you pleased with that decision? 
 A Yes, and I personally think it has the potential to be a tremendous improvement to the district and a real good thing for New York, if -- with a capital ''I''-- it's done properly.
 Q It hasn't been done properly?
 A It was done as an experiment, so it's understandable why it wasn't done with a lot of forethought and design input. But now that it's going forward, the administration should pause and collect a team for input that would almost guarantee a world-class result.
 There has been a lot of criticism, and ridicule, of this whole thing -- on David Letterman and Jay Leno. You see pictures of people in shorts eating a corned beef sandwich lying on the lounge chair. If it's done, it has to be done right.
 Q How do you envision the area?
 A People are talking about plazas in Europe -- they liken it to them. If it were up to me, I'd convene some of the best planners and some of the biggest stakeholders in the city, sit around the table and make sure we get it right.
 Q Have you noticed an improvement in traffic because of the pedestrian areas?
 A It did improve the traffic down Seventh Avenue, though not as much as the city had hoped. One of the problems we had in Times Square is that the sidewalks were overcrowded, and this alleviates that enormously, but there were other ways to do it. They could have taken a lane or two out of Broadway and Seventh and widened the sidewalks and still had traffic flowing through.
 Q Is traffic the main reason Times Square hasn't caught on as a residential area?
 A If you're a real New Yorker, it's not where you go to live.
 We built the only residential condo in Times Square -- 1600 Broadway -- with 135 apartments, and we had an expectation as to who we were going to sell it to. It turns out that we were wrong, but we were wrong in a good way. It was much more popular as an investment and a pied-a-terre. We only have a handful of New Yorkers living in there.
 Q How has business fared in the downturn?
 A Well, it's not been good. Business is tough all across the economy. We lost two signs with General Motors: we had a Chevrolet sign and a Pontiac sign. First time that ever happened. We replaced Pontiac with Hyundai, and we replaced Chevrolet with Kia.
 Q Are the new signage rents lower?
 A One is and one's not, so on balance it's about the same. I think Times Square is kind of an anomaly in terms of the pricing and retail signage value. It hasn't been hit as hard as the rest of the city, because of the tourism.
 Q Ever reject sign content?
 A The companies that advertise there are pretty much big companies and they're image-conscious, so it's pretty much self-policed. Every once in awhile you hear a crackpot idea and you've got to reel it back, but it doesn't happen very often. And from time to time, people will want to do political statements on the signs, and we've shied away from that. That's not our genre anyway. Those ads usually are for 30, 60, 90 days. Our big electronic LED ads have 10-year leases.
 Q Moving on to Grand Central, have you completed the capital-improvement program at 370 Lexington?
 A We're just about done. It was a total improvement, about $20 million to the building.
 Q Why the focus on small tenants there?
 A We are servicing part of the market that is very underserved. Normally, when people want 500 to 5,000 square feet, they're often relegated to secondary buildings. Most developers are interested in bigger tenants -- 10,000 feet and up. Part of the reason, too, is the geometry of the building: the floor plates are small.
 Q Will your next building be green?
 A I'm sure; that's what people want. At 370 Lex., we are doing an energy-conservation program. And at Times Square, we are powering the signs with wind energy through a special program with Con Edison.
 Q So how many Times Square celebrations have you been to?
 A Just one: the millennium.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CITY LIFE (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); DAVID LETTERMAN (50%); JAY LENO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



364 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 7929 words

HEADLINE: What happened? The Limits of Rahmism

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER. 
Peter Baker is a White House correspondent for The Times and a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
AS A DOZEN or so top White House officials gathered in Rahm Emanuel's corner West Wing office one morning in early January, the president's political director, Patrick Gaspard, reported on the latest poll numbers in Massachusetts. With less than two weeks until a special Senate election, the Republican candidate was gaining momentum -- just nine percentage points behind the Democrat in a new Rasmussen survey. The Democrats were in danger of losing the seat held for nearly half a century by Senator Edward M. Kennedy.
 Emanuel, the provocative and profane White House chief of staff, slammed his hand down on the table and shook his head with seething exasperation. He did not yell, according to others in the meeting, but his thoughts were obvious. How had this happened? What the bleep was going on? He ordered calls made to Massachusetts and the Senate Democratic campaign committee to assess the situation. ''We've got to get up there and take it over,'' Emanuel told colleagues. As the election got closer, Emanuel and David Axelrod, the president's senior adviser, arranged for President Obama to rush up to Massachusetts for a last-minute campaign trip. 
 It made no difference. The Republican, Scott Brown, who campaigned by driving a pickup truck around the state, was riding a tide of popular anger that would dramatically end the opening chapter of the Obama presidency. By the time Election Day arrived on Jan. 19, Emanuel tried to prepare the White House senior staff, during its 8:30 a.m. meeting in the Roosevelt Room, for the storm of second-guessing that was about to hit. ''I've been in a White House before when we lost both the House and the Senate in '94,'' he said, according to notes taken separately by two people in the room. ''In about 12 hours, we're all going to be stupid. Like Axe says, you're never as smart as they say you are when you win, and you're not as stupid as they say you are when you lose. We were smart before. Now we'll be stupid.''
 The stupid season has arrived for Barack Obama and Rahm Emanuel, the unlikely tandem of inspirational leader and legislative mechanic that was supposed to enact the most expansive domestic program since the Great Society. After the debacle in Massachusetts that cost Democrats their supermajority in the Senate, Washington has engaged in a favorite exercise, conducting the autopsy before the body is actually dead. How had it come to this? How did the president's legislative drive drag on for so long that the surprise loss of a Senate seat could unravel it? Did Obama make a mistake by disregarding his top adviser's counsel? Or was it Emanuel who failed to execute the president's strategy? Was it both, or perhaps neither? 
 As Emanuel put it the morning of the Massachusetts election, the final judgments will depend on the final results. If the president and his chief of staff manage to salvage their ambitious campaign to overhaul health care in the next few weeks -- a proposition the White House privately put at 51 percent as the month began, according to an official -- then, as Emanuel said, they will be seen as smart all over again. But that 49 percent chance of failure could devastate Obama's presidency, weaken Democrats heading into the fall midterm elections and trigger an even fiercer, more debilitating round of finger-pointing inside the administration.
 The paradox of the current situation for Obama and Emanuel has not been lost on Washington. A visionary outsider who is relatively inexperienced and perhaps even a tad naive about the ways of Washington captures the White House and, eager to get things done, hires the ultimate get-it-done insider to run his operation. Obama was enough of a student of history to avoid repeating the mistakes of Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, who came to reform the capital and installed friends from home who did not truly understand it as their top White House aides. But if picking the leading practitioner of the dark arts of the capital was a Faustian bargain for Obama in the name of getting things done, why haven't things got done? 
 By the end of his first year, Obama expected to have revamped the nation's health care system, restructured its energy industry to curb climate change, reined in Wall Street with a new regulatory structure, closed the prison at Guantanamo Bay, signed an arms-control treaty with Russia, begun rapprochement with Iran and jump-started the Middle East peace process. Instead, the president's approval ratings have fallen by more than 20 percentage points, unemployment remains higher than even the worst initial White House forecasts and much of the president's agenda is stalled. Most significant, the fate of Obama's signature health care initiative is uncertain. ''What looked like it was going to be a huge achievement for 2009 became a huge challenge for 2010,'' Anita Dunn, the former White House communications director under Obama, told me. ''Obviously, the landscape looks a lot different heading into the second year.''
 If Emanuel's philosophy is to put points on the board, to take what you can get and then cut a deal, to make everything negotiable except success, then the White House is testing the limits of Rahmism. For 14 months, the president has struggled with the balance between that pragmatism and the idealism of his campaign. At times, he disregarded Emanuel's advice to scale back his goals, particularly on health care. At others, he has sacrificed campaign positions in hopes of achieving a compromise. ''There's a constant tension between the need to get things done within the system as it is and the commitment to change the system,'' Axelrod told me last month. ''Finding that line at any given moment is really, really difficult.''
 In choosing his chief of staff, Obama concluded that what he needed was someone who was not like him in temperament or political instinct. With only two years in the Senate before effectively leaving town to run for the presidency, Obama needed a guide through the labyrinth of Washington. ''He really wants Rahm in that position because he trusts him,'' Ray LaHood, the transportation secretary and a close friend of Emanuel's, told me. ''If Rahm tells him to make a phone call or to do something, he knows that it's probably a good thing to do.''
 It is hardly a relationship of dependence and deferral. These are two strong-willed individuals. Yet for all the focus on Emanuel lately, Obama calls the shots. When Obama makes a decision at variance with Emanuel's advice, Emanuel does what staff members do and adopts the decision as his own. ''Rahm Emanuel is not telling the president what to do,'' said Representative Steny Hoyer of Maryland, the House majority leader. ''Rahm is not somebody who is running over the president of the United States. The president is making the decisions.''
 In this season of discontent for Obama, Emanuel has emerged as the leading foil, the easy and most popular target for missiles flung at the White House from all sides. He is the bete noire of conservatives who see him as the chief architect of Obama's big-government program and of liberals who consider him an accommodationist who undermines the very same agenda. The criticism has been searing and conflicting. He didn't work enough across party lines. He tried too hard to work across party lines. He pushed for too much. He didn't push for enough. The crossfire underscores his contradictions -- how can Emanuel be so intensely partisan without being all that liberal and so relentlessly pragmatic without being bipartisan? And just as salient these days, how can he be so independent-minded and still remain loyal to a team operation? 
 After a series of attacks last month came articles in The Washington Post and elsewhere defending Emanuel, which in a way was worse for him, because it fed suspicions that he was secretly disparaging the president and colleagues. None of his closest friends believe he would deliberately do that, but all the attention on him lately has stirred widespread grumbling inside the White House about the violation of the ''no-drama Obama'' ethos cultivated during the campaign. Even some of Emanuel's friends are aggravated at the perception that White House officials are taking shots at one another. As for Obama, ''he's irritated by the stories,'' a top aide told me, and Emanuel has ''expressed regret'' to the president. 
 Emanuel, who declined to talk to me on the record for this article, generally shrugs off most of the commentary, scorning armchair critics who haven't spent time in the White House or Congress actually trying to accomplish something. But at least some of this is bravado. ''He is obviously going through a tough patch,'' William Daley, a former commerce secretary and a close friend, says. ''Everybody wants to dump on him because they don't want to dump on the president.'' Daley told me it is eating away at Emanuel: ''Contrary to what he says, this stuff does bother him. He cannot fail. And if he thinks people think he failed, it depresses him. He can't stand the thought that he's failed, and he's hearing that from too many people now.''
 ONE DAY LAST MONTH, Congressional leaders of both parties shuffled into the Cabinet Room of the White House for the first of what Obama now promises will be monthly bipartisan meetings. Young aides asked the staff members to surrender their BlackBerries, as is typical for meetings in the West Wing. Yet while the president and the leaders talked through their issues, there was Emanuel, staring down and typing away.
 At a meeting of the president's economic team a few weeks ago, though, Emanuel called out Lawrence Summers, the head of the White House National Economic Council, for obsessively working his BlackBerry. ''Hey, Larry, are you winning or losing that game?'' Emanuel teased, according to a person in the room. ''In my house when my kids do that, we take away their things. I'm not going to do that, I just want to know if you're winning.''
 Emanuel occupies a unique niche in Obama's White House. He makes up the rules of the game that others are supposed to follow, and he gets away with what others cannot. Emanuel seems to serve as a virtual prime minister, the most powerful chief of staff since James Baker managed the White House during Ronald Reagan's first term. Baker was also an experienced, savvy operator who took the arrows for his boss. Just as Emanuel is often criticized by the left for steering Obama toward the middle, Baker was considered a moderate who tempered Reagan's more conservative instincts. ''Let Reagan be Reagan'' was the cri de coeur against Baker. ''Let Obama be Obama'' is the thrust of the liberal critique of Emanuel. What that fundamentally misses, of course, is that Reagan and Obama chose their chiefs of staff to serve exactly the roles they did.
 Emanuel cultivates his ferocious, dead-fish-sending, profanity-spewing, Rahmbo reputation because it serves his interests as well as the president's. At 50, he has the coiled energy of aides half his age, still as wiry thin as he was during his improbable days as a ballet dancer. He meets with Obama at the beginning of each day and again at the end, in between dipping his hands into virtually everything the White House does, from economic policy to national security. In any meeting with the president, he sits to Obama's left and is typically called on at the end to summarize arguments and present his recommendations. He works the phone and e-mail with energy, staying in touch each day in staccato fashion with a dizzying array of lawmakers, officials, lobbyists, journalists and political operatives. Descriptions of his style almost always seem to include some sort of martial reference.
 ''Hand-to-hand combat,'' as Daley describes it.
 ''A heat-seeking missile,'' in Axelrod's words.
 Although he is a policy wonk in his own right, Emanuel is far less concerned about the details of a bill than the ability to get it passed. Can he find 60 votes in the Senate and 218 in the House for this? He pushes for as much as he can, and when he judges he has as much as the system will give him, he cuts a deal. ''He's a Malcolm X Democrat -- by any means necessary,'' Paul Begala, a longtime friend from the Clinton White House, says.
 That approach is at the heart of the dominant conflict inside the current White House. When Obama ran for the presidency, liberals saw him as the crusading head of a movement to sweep in a new era of progressive policies on health care, climate change and national security, while independents and some Republicans saw him as a sort of postpartisan figure who would reach across party lines and end the ideological polarization of Washington. Inevitably, of course, he could not be both. Instead he has managed to disappoint both sets of believers. Emanuel's operation grapples with that disconnect every day -- how far to push on stimulus spending, on health care, on Wall Street regulation? One day, Obama is saying he will sign no health care bill without a government-run ''public option''; the next, he all but drops it. One day, he is bashing the ''shameful'' bonuses for ''fat-cat bankers'' at bailed-out firms, the next he is serving dinner to corporate titans at the White House and saying he does not ''begrudge'' the big payouts.
 ''There's a basic tension in the White House between the pragmatic, let's-get-it-done view and the people who want fighting,'' a senior administration official told me, insisting on anonymity to discuss internal dynamics. ''There are a whole bunch of people at the White House who want to create dividing lines between us and them. They vacillate all the time between the two, all the time between 'let's draw a bright line' and 'let's get something done.' ''
 That has been the story of health care, the defining project of Obama's first year as president. Along the way, Obama has been willing to be flexible on the details to the point that he switched positions significantly from his own campaign promises -- giving up on the public option, embracing a mandate requiring everyone to have insurance and accepting a tax on high-value insurance plans. But when it comes to the broad sweep of his plan, to extend coverage to more than 30 million uninsured Americans, he has refused to retreat. 
 While publicly leading the push for ambitious change, Emanuel privately suggested from the start that Obama narrow his goals. Burned by Bill Clinton's failure to enact his health care overhaul, Emanuel counseled the new president as he set out his original agenda more than a year ago to think about moving more strategically and incrementally, according to White House insiders and key Democrats. Bite off what can be done now and keep making forward progress. Obama disagreed and insisted on pushing for a comprehensive plan. Emanuel saluted and went off to try to make it happen. ''Rahm faithfully executed that vision,'' David Axelrod told me.
 But when the process bogged down last summer, Emanuel went back to Obama -- by one colleague's recollection, he brought it up repeatedly during the first week of August -- and pushed for a pared-back approach that would focus on expanding coverage for lower-income children and families and on reforming the most objectionable practices of insurance companies. The history of health reform, he argued, has been step-by-step, manageable progress that can win public support. Obama could come back later for more. Obama again said no. ''His thinking,'' Anita Dunn told me, ''was: I actually do not want to play it safe on this issue. I want to get it done; and if we don't get it done now, we won't get it done for a very long time. And I'm not ready to fold on this. It may get to that point, but not yet.''
 LIKE A LOT of reporters, I met Emanuel in the 1990s when he was at the Clinton White House. He was then, as now, aggressive, relentless and driven. He always had a pithy attack line on Republicans to share or a scooplet on some modest forthcoming presidential initiative to peddle. He liked reporters and understood what made a good story. He also understood that the relationships he was building were good for him.
 Emanuel's time in the Clinton White House prepared him for the trials of today. After alienating the wrong people with his sometimes abrasive style as political director, Emanuel was demoted, reportedly at the instigation of Hillary Rodham Clinton, but he refused to quit and rehabilitated himself by helping to push through the North American Free Trade Agreement. He lived through the Republican takeover of Congress in 1994 and the Monica Lewinsky scandal in 1998. Along the way, he became a champion of the small-bore initiatives that Clinton used to revive his presidency, reasoning that enough modest achievements add up to something big -- an approach Obama has largely resisted.
 After leaving the White House, Emanuel returned home to Chicago to work in investment banking. I went to see him once in Chicago, visiting his fancy office in the high-flying investment firm that earned him millions of dollars in very short order. He seemed as at home with money as with politics, but it was clear as we talked that he viewed the private sector mainly as a way station before his return to the political arena, this time as an independent actor. 
 Soon after reaching Congress, he managed to power his way into the leadership through force of personality, past scores of members with more seniority. No one else wanted it as bad or was willing to do as much. He mastered the Congressional districts of virtually every member and took over the party's campaign committee for the 2006 elections, recruiting moderate and even conservative candidates for districts the Democrats had not won in years. Along the way, he stayed in touch, calling me unsolicited from time to time to trade gossip or point out something about George W. Bush's White House that he thought deserved more scrutiny from the news media. He managed to get around so much that an editor at a major newspaper at the time recalled finding Emanuel's name on the expense account of virtually every reporter covering Washington for that paper.
 By the time Obama was headed for victory in 2008, Emanuel's name was coming up as an obvious choice to run the new White House. But he had other ideas. Just a few weeks before the election, we met for one of those expense-account dinners, and he flatly rejected any suggestion that he might become chief of staff. He had set his sights on eventually becoming speaker of the House of Representatives, keenly aware that Nancy Pelosi was approaching 70, as were the two others ahead of him on the Democratic ladder, Steny Hoyer and James Clyburn of South Carolina. Emanuel, two decades their junior, could afford to wait them out and would still have a long tenure ahead of him in the speaker's chair. The typical White House chief of staff, he knew all too well, lasted only two years or so. And then what?
 But in Washington, it's never safe to take at face value someone who swears they don't want a job in the White House. Either the opportunity overcomes the objections or it becomes clear pretty quickly just how hard it is to say no to the president of the United States. Just weeks after our dinner, Emanuel was in Chicago advising the new president as his incoming chief of staff. The selection rankled many in the greater Obama orbit. For all the work they put in electing an apostle of hope to clean up Washington, now they were handing over the keys to a crass, cynical operator? Even if it was a sensible decision, what message did it send?
 As different as the two men are, there is something in the erudite and zenlike Obama that seems to enjoy Emanuel's coarser side. At an epilepsy fund-raiser in Chicago in 2005, Obama, then a senator, roasted Emanuel, then a congressman, in a moment captured on video. Obama joked that Emanuel once adapted Machiavelli's ''Prince'' for dance, naturally with ''a lot of kicks below the waist.'' He recalled the teenage accident with a fast-food meat slicer that cost Emanuel part of his middle finger, joking that it rendered him ''practically mute.'' Emanuel doubled over laughing. Obama, clearly enjoying the audience reaction, added: ''Has he ever flashed that little stubby thing at you? It's appalling!'' He then noted that Emanuel's brother Ari is the inspiration for the cocky Hollywood agent on HBO's ''Entourage'' and joked that Rahm was more like Tony Soprano. ''Rahm is a little intense, he's strong, he's aggressive, he's emotional, he's moody,'' the future president said. ''Thank God he is one of a kind.''
 The relationship between Obama and Emanuel is commonly misunderstood, however. They are not as personally close as many assume. While they both come from Chicago and have been political allies for years, they are more friendly than friends. Emanuel never worked for Obama before he was elected president and did not go through the fires of the campaign with him, as Axelrod, Valerie Jarrett and Robert Gibbs did -- he did not even endorse Obama, staying neutral between Obama, his Chicago ally, and Hillary Clinton, the wife of his former boss. Emanuel does not regularly trek up to Camp David to spend weekends with the president, nor do they play golf or shoot hoops together; in fact, Obama, an avid viewer of ESPN's ''SportsCenter,'' teases Emanuel for not knowing much about sports. ''He doesn't have the personal closeness of David or Valerie or Gibbs,'' Daley says.
 Especially in the early months, Emanuel was wary of overstepping his bounds in Obama's eyes, unsure exactly where the boundaries were. Even now, he worries about giving the impression of defending himself publicly at the expense of the president. ''In hundreds and hundreds, maybe thousands, of conversations with him since he took the job, he has never, not even once, complained about the president,'' Begala told me. ''He's 100 percent loyal to the president. And I think that's reciprocated. Barack Obama has his back.''
 His back needs protection. The disaffection with Emanuel has swelled since the Massachusetts election, and the knives have come out. Each nick has led to another. An article in The Financial Times questioning the Emanuel team was followed by a slam by Steve Clemons on his Washington Note blog, which was followed by a column in The Daily Beast by Leslie Gelb titled ''Replace Rahm.'' Even a public rebuttal worked against Emanuel: when Dana Milbank, the Washington Post columnist, defended Emanuel and suggested that Axelrod, Jarrett, Gibbs and even the president himself were the real problems, critics accused Emanuel of orchestrating the column. But Milbank said he had not spoken with Emanuel. And such a fanciful explanation fundamentally misunderstood both men. Emanuel is unquestionably a master manipulator of the news media, but in my dealings with him since his selection 16 months ago, he has consistently sought to deny or play down differences with his colleagues. And Milbank, a longtime friend of mine, is a congenital contrarian who would bristle at any self-serving attempt to plant such a column.
 Emanuel talks regularly and candidly with so many people, especially on Capitol Hill and in the media, that his point of view is well known around Washington. It does not take a leak from Emanuel to know that he favors pocketing victories when possible even if that means scaling back grander ambitions, nor are these conversations intended to undercut the president or his colleagues. Some officials in the White House are incensed at the distraction created by all the attention on Emanuel of late, but publicly, at least, they have stuck behind him. ''I love him like a brother,'' Axelrod told me. Gibbs says it all went with the territory. ''By this point in a White House,'' he said, ''if you haven't had a blog or something on the Internet stating that you should be fired, you probably should be fired.''
 THE DAY THE HOUSE voted on its version of health care reform in November, Emanuel was prowling the halls of the Capitol, searching for his troops. ''Where's Lipinski?'' he shouted, as a witness recalled. ''I gotta find him. Did you find Lipinski for me?'' Representative Dan Lipinski, an Illinois Democrat, didn't vote for the stimulus package back in February, and Emanuel was worried that he would abandon the president again. He pressed him in the preceding days but couldn't find him as the vote was being cast. Lipinski ultimately cast a reluctant vote for the health bill. But afterward, he released a statement saying that if the bill did not improve once it came back from the Senate for final passage, ''I will vote against it.'' 
 That was O.K. with Emanuel. One day at a time, one vote at a time. But he had less luck with another wavering House Democrat, Representative Jason Altmire of Pennsylvania, who voted no. ''He was very frustrated with me personally, which he was not shy about letting me know,'' Altmire told me later. The bill ended up passing, 220 to 215, just two votes more than the needed majority. Seven weeks later, on Christmas Eve, the Senate followed suit on its own version, garnering the bare-minimum 60 votes needed to overcome a Republican filibuster. And so it has gone for Obama and Emanuel. They have made more progress in passing a comprehensive health care bill than any administration in decades, but with no margin for error and next to no Republican support.
 With Obama determined to pursue an expansive vision of his program, Emanuel devised a strategy predicated on avoiding what he saw as the mistakes of the Clinton effort 16 years earlier. Rather than present fully drafted bills to Congress, Obama let lawmakers take the lead in shaping legislation. Rather than fight the well-heeled health care industry, Emanuel brought lobbyists for hospitals and drug makers to the table and cut deals -- in the case of the pharmaceutical industry, its contribution to the cost savings in the health care legislation would be capped at $80 billion, in effect ruling out the importation of cheaper drugs. And rather than sequencing initiatives as Clinton did -- tackling one big proposal at a time -- Obama moved forward across the board. For a while it seemed to be working. Within 24 days of taking office, Obama pushed through a $787 billion package of spending programs and tax cuts to revive the recession-racked economy, dwarfing any comparable stimulus package in the country's history. The belief was that victories would beget victories. The administration would use 2009 to restructure the nation's health care system, energy industry and financial-regulatory structure, ''and then use 2010 to explain what we did,'' as a White House official put it. Another official told me, ''Well, it didn't work.''
 Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, the Republican who is probably friendliest with Emanuel in the upper chamber, says the seeds of the current difficulties were planted during the early days of the administration, when the president pushed through the stimulus without significant Republican support. Graham recalls how Senator John McCain of Arizona, the Republican presidential candidate in 2008, signed onto a $421 billion version. Had Obama and Emanuel split the difference with that plan, Graham argued, they could have had a package with Republican support. ''You could have had a bipartisan bill, and our fingerprints would have been all over it,'' Graham told me. ''Instead, I think they were playing for a home run. They were going to jam through the biggest stimulus package ever and just pick up a couple Republicans.''
 Yet liberals remember that the $787 billion figure -- the Congressional Budget Office recently increased its estimate of the actual long-term cost to $862 billion -- was already a compromise from what they thought was necessary to rescue an economy on the brink of a new Great Depression. Christina Romer, the chairwoman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, studied options for a package of more than $1.2 trillion. Emanuel, among others, concluded that that amount was a nonstarter politically and forced a figure that started with a B, not a T. Economists on the left, most notably Paul Krugman, a columnist at The New York Times, scorned the administration for timidity.
 Either way, the stimulus debate set the course. Any hope of bipartisanship seemed to fade, and each side blamed the other. ''When they first came into office, I could have a meeting or two with Rahm and talk with him about the stimulus bill,'' Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House Republican whip, told me. ''But the conversations have been few and far between over the last six months.''
 Many Democrats, including quite a few in the White House, believe the real problem was not shutting out Republicans but trying too hard to work with them. With Ted Kennedy ill, Senator Max Baucus, chairman of the Finance Committee, became the lead Senate negotiator on health care and spent months trying to win the support of a few Republican senators like Chuck Grassley of Iowa and Olympia Snowe of Maine. Few in the White House were thrilled with Baucus as their point man. But they were pulled between two competing imperatives -- speed and bipartisanship. Emanuel knew that the longer a big, complicated initiative like health care lingers in Congress, the more political freight it takes on, but he and Obama were also determined to get Republican votes if possible to give the effort more legitimacy, and that took patient negotiating. Axelrod told me he went into the Oval Office by himself one day in June and warned the president that the prolonged focus on health care was costing him politically. Obama said he understood, but recounted meeting a woman in Green Bay with cancer who was in debt from medical bills. He refused to scale back. ''He felt it would be a dereliction of duty,'' Axelrod said.
 At an August meeting in the Oval Office with the six leading Senate negotiators, three from each party, Grassley asked Obama if he would say publicly that he would be willing to sign a bill without a public option, according to Grassley aides. Obama demurred, knowing that would trigger a revolt among House Democrats. For his part, the president later told his own staff that he asked Grassley if he would support the health care plan if the president agreed to what the senator was asking for. As Obama later recalled the encounter, Grassley replied, ''Probably not.'' (Grassley aides dispute that Obama asked that question and they told me the senator said only that it would not be a bipartisan bill unless it had 70 or 80 votes.) Much later, both camps would cite this conversation as a turning point at which it became clear that there would be no significant bipartisan accord. 
 Nancy Pelosi kept pressing the White House to stop dealing with the Republicans. ''It's never going to happen,'' a Democratic official quoted her as saying. ''Grassley's just going to wait you out and then pull the rug out from under you.'' Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, who succeeded Emanuel as chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, told me, ''Some of us concluded much earlier than the White House that Senator Grassley and the two other Republicans had clearly made a decision that they were not going to participate in a meaningful way at the end.''
 After Obama rebuffed Emanuel's suggestion to trim the scope of his health care bill, Emanuel pushed Baucus to wrap things up. ''He told him, 'You've got to decide whether you're going to be chairman of the Senate Finance Committee,' '' a Democrat close to the White House recalls. Baucus pushed back, arguing that with a little more time he could still get one or two Republicans and that would keep them from needing every single one of the 60 Democrats. But the August recess, with its Tea Party protests and raucous town-hall meetings, hardened Grassley's position. 
 With the White House losing control of the situation, Emanuel summoned fellow aides to his office on the last Sunday in August for a three-hour strategy session. To recapture momentum, they concluded that the president should address a joint session of Congress. Obama agreed with the plan and even insisted they move the date up a week. ''He wanted to seize the moment,'' an aide recalled.
 He did, but not for long. As the debate moved to the Senate floor, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, found himself held up by negotiations with fellow Democrats, as Baucus had feared, because every one was a make-or-break vote to prevent a filibuster. The deals he cut with some senators, especially what Republicans called a ''cornhusker kickback'' that would have given Senator Ben Nelson's Nebraska an advantage on Medicaid financing, looked like the business as usual that Obama had vowed to end in Washington. ''In the logic of Washington, the Ben Nelson deal made perfect sense,'' Axelrod told me. ''To the average person, it confirmed their worst suspicions about Washington.''
 While many of the provisions of the health care bill were individually popular with the public, the collective size of the package -- roughly $1 trillion over a decade -- left some voters with sticker shock. Even though the plan was, at least in theory, paid for by spending cuts, cost savings and new taxes on wealthier Americans or expensive insurance plans, the idea of an enormous project coming after the hundreds and hundreds of billions already devoted to bank bailouts, auto bailouts and the stimulus package amid skyrocketing deficits proved too much for a lot of the public.
 ''They miscalculated on health care,'' Daley, the former commerce secretary, told me. ''The election of '08 sent a message that after 30 years of center-right governing, we had moved to center left -- not left.'' Other Democrats say Obama simply overestimated his capacity to bring Republicans into the fold. ''They were duped,'' said a Democratic member of Congress who did not want to be identified criticizing the White House. ''Maybe a little naive. I don't think Rahm was, but the president himself.''
 Defenders of the administration's approach say this criticism misses just how close the White House has come to achieving something that has eluded other presidents for a century. ''It would be dead a thousand times before but for Rahm's leadership,'' Axelrod told me. Or as Bruce Reed, chief executive of the Democratic Leadership Council and Emanuel's co-author on a political book, put it, ''They came within one pickup truck of getting it through Congress.''
 EVEN TODAY, Emanuel sometimes has a hard time talking about the Massachusetts election. Asked recently by a visitor what happened, Emanuel simply sighed and said: ''I can't. I don't have enough medication.'' The debacle unleashed a lot of pent-up frustration within the party at Emanuel -- and by extension, though less viscerally, at Obama. Liberal activists told The Wall Street Journal that Emanuel had berated them at a private strategy meeting by calling their tactics ''retarded'' (along with another word), touching off a firestorm that led him to apologize to the head of the Special Olympics. Lost amid the focus on the so-called R-word was the context of the discussion. Emanuel was scolding the activists for running television advertisements against moderate Democrats who were not supporting the public option, neatly encapsulating the central tension between their philosophies of governing. The activists were willing to go to war even with Democrats for a policy idea they deeply cared about, while Emanuel saw that as ridiculously counterproductive.
 No doubt he didn't care much, then, for the television ad run later in Chicago by the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, a group formed last year to advocate for liberal candidates and issues. The ad featured a voter from Emanuel's old Congressional district describing troubles with a health insurer. ''A lot of us back home hope Rahm Emanuel is fighting for people like us as White House chief of staff,'' the man said into the camera. ''But if he sides with the insurance companies and undermines the public option, well, he won't have many fans in Chicago.''
 The activists were taking aim at Chicago viewers, knowing that Emanuel harbors ambitions for elective office after his White House stint is over. By assailing him at home, they hoped to make it costly for him to abandon liberal policy initiatives. Adam Green, a founder of Progressive Change, told me that Emanuel's reputation for being strong was overblown and that the chief of staff actually had ''a loser mentality'' because he refused to fight more vigorously -- even for progressive ideas that had popular support. ''Rahm Emanuel is very, very risk-averse and afraid of a fight,'' Green says. ''We see him, and many people see him, as a destructive influence inside the White House, urging President Obama to cave instead of fighting for real change.'' The activists are expressing frustrations that are also felt by Congressional Democrats, even if they will not say so out loud. A Democratic congressman, who refused to be identified for fear of retribution, said Emanuel didn't pressure recalcitrant lawmakers enough. ''We need a little less ballerina and a little more L.B.J.,'' he told me. ''For all the reputation of being able to bust knee caps, we haven't seen nos turned to yeses.''
 Jane Hamsher, the founder of the liberal Web site Firedoglake and one of Emanuel's strongest critics, says the deal with the pharmaceutical industry was the original sin of the health care drive. Emanuel wanted to avoid the industry opposition that helped kill Clinton's health care plan, the so-called Harry and Louise ads that undermined public confidence, and to do that he brought industry to the table. But in winning the support of Big Pharma, as Hamsher sees it, he gave away the chance to lower health care costs through imported drugs. ''A lot of people feel like opportunities were sacrificed to do something really good because Rahm's instincts are to go and strike some sort of deal,'' she told me. ''That's not what Obama ran on. That's not what people want.''
 Massachusetts and health care have reinforced a broader liberal indictment of Emanuel. He has been leery of or has resisted the most aggressive efforts to overturn Bush-era national-security policies, like closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay, investigating C.I.A. officers accused of abusing detainees and taking Khalid Shaikh Mohammed to New York to try him in a civilian court for masterminding the Sept. 11 attacks. The issues pitted him against Attorney General Eric Holder and the White House counsel, Greg Craig, and eventually Craig resigned. Emanuel is not particularly vested in the substantive merits or drawbacks of the specific plans. He sees them as politically problematic, wasting scarce capital and provoking unnecessary fights on what he regards as second-tier issues that distract from higher priorities. On the other side of the ideological spectrum, Emanuel was a leading skeptic of sending another 30,000 troops to Afghanistan, again at least partly out of concern that it deepened Obama's involvement in a war that distracts from the core agenda. 
 He has also been at odds with minority caucuses within the Democratic fold in the House. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus and Congressional Hispanic Caucus say he does not pay attention to their issues. Hispanic lawmakers blame him for a provision inserted into the Senate health care legislation that would bar illegal immigrants from buying policies on new insurance exchanges even with their own money, and they complain that he is not putting any energy behind liberalizing immigration laws. ''There are strong feelings about Rahm Emanuel among members of the Hispanic caucus,'' Representative Nydia Velazquez of New York, the head of the caucus, told me. ''People feel Rahm Emanuel has not been helpful in moving forward. He's always about the numbers. He's always about being the pragmatist. He's always about winning.''
 More loyal, personally at least, have been the members of the class of 2006 that he helped bring into office, many of them in traditionally conservative districts. Even those who disagreed with Emanuel vouch for him. ''It's unfair for people to point the finger solely at him,'' says Altmire, the congressman who voted against health care. ''There's a lot of blame to go around when things like this happen. Everybody's looking for a scapegoat.'' And it is clear that Emanuel has these members' interests at heart as he measures how far to push. He hears all the time from moderates in the House worried about the direction the president is leading them. ''We call him up and say, 'Hey, Rahm, you've got to push this back to the middle,' '' Representative Heath Shuler of North Carolina told me. ''He always says: 'I hear you. I hear everything you're saying. I'm doing everything I can.' '' 
 In a way, this is a problem of his own creation. Had he not helped so many moderates win their elections in 2006, perhaps he would not have to cater to them so much, or so the theory goes. On the other hand, he and his allies point out, without those moderates, Democrats might not even control the House, making the point moot. ''I analogize Rahm to Gumby: he's got the White House grabbing both hands, both Houses grabbing both legs, all pulling in different directions,'' Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a Florida congresswoman and chief deputy whip, says. ''He's really being pulled between the bold views of the president and the mechanical reality of the Congress, which is very incremental and often slow.''
 AS FRENETIC AS Emanuel is, the pace and the struggle are wearing on him in a way that friends do not recall seeing before. His nature is to be involved in everything -- ''Rahm can do everybody's job and some days does,'' says another White House official. While Obama has made a point of organizing his own schedule to be family-friendly, Emanuel is often at the office when the president arrives and still there when he leaves. A friend recalled a dinner party just before Christmas when Emanuel seemed on the verge of exhaustion. ''He was just lying on the sofa on a Saturday night, saying, 'I'm so tired, I'm so tired,' '' the friend told me. The setbacks and the mounting attacks have only worsened since then. ''I can see it in his eyes,'' says Shuler, who runs into him at the House gym, where Emanuel still works out as early as 5:30 most mornings. ''It's taking a toll on him.''
 For Emanuel, the last two months have been particularly frustrating. He finished last year boasting that Obama had the most productive first year of any president since Franklin D. Roosevelt, and now he hears all the time about Obama's lost first year. Emanuel for months has reminded anyone who would listen of a succession of victories that, he laments, have gone largely overlooked -- besides the stimulus, he points to the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act expanding the right of women to sue over pay inequities; new authority for the federal government to regulate tobacco products and advertising; broader consumer protections for credit-card users; and expansion of health care coverage for children in low-income families. All of which is true enough, but they all passed in the first half of last year. It is far harder to name examples of major legislation signed into law in the past nine months. 
 Ever since the Massachusetts election upended their plans, Obama and Emanuel have tried to find a new path. At first, Obama sounded populist themes, hoping to tap into the anger that propelled Scott Brown to victory. But Emanuel worried that the tone was too sharp and organized a series of encounters with business leaders and business journalists to position the president more carefully as someone who shares voters' frustration but also supports economic growth and the free market. Emanuel is said to figure that Americans still mostly like Obama and think he is on their side. ''He is not seen as part of the Washington problem,'' says a senior White House official. ''In fact, if anything, he is seen as trying to clean it up, and the question about him is does he have the swat to get it done.'' Emanuel tells colleagues that the outsider brand represents Obama's most powerful asset, and protecting it is Emanuel's top political priority.
 To guard that reputation, Obama has spent more time traveling outside the Beltway and trying unconventional things like engaging Republicans in live televised discussions about health care and other issues. The hope is that voters will appreciate his seriousness. If at the same time, he triangulates between Congressional Republicans and Democrats a little, just as Clinton did when Emanuel was in his White House, so be it. The newfound drive for bipartisan cooperation, of course, is as much tactical as anything else. To be sure, if Republicans suddenly signed onto Obama's legislative priorities, he would be happy to have them. But the main point is to look bipartisan to the public, particularly the independents drifting away from Democrats since Obama's inauguration. ''Rahm thinks bipartisanship is a way to get what you want -- to fake bipartisanship to get what you want,'' a senior administration official told me. ''He understands that's a better way to get things done than to be nakedly partisan.''
 Emanuel wants to jam a wedge into the fissure inside the Republican Party between, as he frames it, the descending wing that believes in small government and the ascending wing that believes in no government. Republicans lose, in this theory, whether they cooperate with Obama or not. ''We've got to drive the ball at them,'' a senior White House official told me. ''Driving the ball at them, making them pick between small government and no government, putting them in their responsibility-and-accountability box. You walk away? You're walking away from responsibility, and the public's angry at you. You participate? Your base hates you.''
 As for Emanuel, it seems unlikely right now that he plans to walk away anytime soon, at least not before the November elections. First, Obama does not cast aside advisers during times of adversity. It would be surrendering to pressure. If they go, it doesn't happen when the wolves are circling but only months later, as with Greg Craig, the former White House counsel, and Desiree Rogers, the outgoing social secretary. Second, Emanuel's family moved to town last year to be with him, and he is determined to finish what he has started. Otherwise he fears the failure William Daley mentioned to me.
 Does he want to run for mayor of Chicago someday? Of course. With House speaker now off the table, Emanuel would like to lead his hometown and openly communicates that to people, including his friend Richard Daley, the incumbent mayor. But Emanuel would not run against the mayor, and William Daley told me that he thinks his brother will probably run again next year when his latest term expires.
 So that leaves Obama and Emanuel together in Washington, for as long as the president wants him there. If they manage to pull off health care despite the odds, Emanuel will be hailed as a savior. If not, well, he does not even allow for that possibility.
 As Axelrod pointed out, ''We don't know how the story ends.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY) (MM37)
LISTENING POST: Rahm Emanuel and President Obama in Pittsburgh in September. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(MM38)
TRAFFIC COP: Emanuel once teased a colleague for using a BlackBerry during a White House meeting. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVI ER DOULI ERY/EPA) (MM41)
 IN FLIGHT: Emanuel and other administration staff members on Air Force One. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE SOUZA/THE WHITE HOUSE)(MM43) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); AUTOPSIES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (51%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TED KENNEDY (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); SCOTT BROWN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



365 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Is Failure Forgivable?

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, had a little political advice last week for President Obama and the Democrats: Don't pass the president's health care legislation because you would risk losing in the midterm elections.
 Mr. Obama laughed about it afterward. ''I generally wouldn't take advice about what's good for Democrats'' from Mr. McConnell, he told an audience in Pennsylvania. But he conceded that ''that's what members of Congress are hearing right now on the cable shows and in sort of the gossip columns in Washington.'' He went on to argue that the issue should be what's right, not the politics.
 But this is Washington and politics are never far from the surface, especially at a decisive moment like this. If the schedule being mapped out at the end of last week holds, the fate of the president's health care plan should be decided within the next week. And its fate could depend on how a couple dozen Democratic congressmen answer the questions Mr. McConnell and Mr. Obama raised: Would passing health care devastate Democratic chances in the fall? Would rejecting it devastate a Democratic presidency? 
 Washington is already debating how pivotal the vote will be to his presidency. Mr. Obama has devoted vast energy and political capital over the last 14 months to get to this point, the presidential equivalent of an all-in bet on the poker table. Should he fail to push his plan through a Congress with strong Democratic majorities, it would certainly damage his credibility as a leader for months, and maybe years. Already the fight has scarred Washington, leaving behind a polarized and angry political elite and questions about whether the system is broken.
 If Mr. Obama falls short on health care, his hopes of passing other ambitious legislation like an overhaul of immigration and a market-based cap on carbon emissions to curb climate change would seem out of reach, at least for the rest of this year. Much of Washington would question whether he is weak, some Democratic candidates would run away from him and Mr. Obama would be forced to consider a narrower agenda like that pursued by Bill Clinton after his own health care drive collapsed.
 At the same time, passing it has its risks too. While a bill-signing ceremony in the Rose Garden would provide at least a short-term boost to a beleaguered president, Republicans have made clear that the legislative procedure Democrats are using to avoid another filibuster would so anger them that they would not cooperate on other major initiatives this year. Just last week, bipartisan talks on new Wall Street regulations broke down amid Republican complaints about the health care tactics. Of course, there has been so little Republican cooperation so far it may not be much of a sacrifice for Mr. Obama.
 If Mr. Obama and the Democrats succeed, the challenge over the next eight months will be to convince the public that the program is better than polls suggest they think it is. And while some of its features would take effect right away, particularly popular limits on abuses by insurance companies, much of its impact in terms of coverage for the uninsured would not kick in until long after the fall election.
 ''If and when this is passed, Democrats will run aggressively on this,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. ''We relish the idea of Republicans running on the Tea Party mantle of repeal.''
 But Karl Rove, the former senior adviser to President George W. Bush, said Republicans relish the fight as well. ''If they pass it,'' he said about the Democrats, ''they're dead in the polls.''
 Past presidents have suffered the consequences of big initiatives. Mr. Bush failed to get a Republican Congress to approve his overhaul of Social Security in 2005, undercutting his ability to pass other major proposals for the rest of his term. In hindsight, Mr. Rove said he wished the Bush White House had led off the second term with immigration and chalked up a bipartisan victory before moving on to Social Security.
 The more salient precedent remains Mr. Clinton's health care drive, which ran aground in a Democratic Congress in his first term. The debacle fueled the electoral sweep that handed Congress to the Republicans in 1994. Democrats have bitter memories. ''A lot of them have P.T.S.D. from 1994,'' said a White House official, referring to post-traumatic stress disorder.
 Among those who lost reelection that year was Marjorie Margolies Mezvinsky, a freshman Democrat from Pennsylvania who cast the deciding vote on Mr. Clinton's budget package, which cut the deficit through spending cuts and a tax increase on the wealthy.
 The former congresswoman, who now goes by Marjorie Margolies, recalled last week that she had boiled down her explanation of her vote to four minutes. The problem was that her opponents had boiled down their criticism of her to a 30-second advertisement. ''It's very hard to push back on that 30 seconds and that's what these members are going to face and that's what these members are scared about,'' she said.
 Rahm Emanuel, a former top adviser to Mr. Clinton who now serves as White House chief of staff, has often said Mr. Clinton's problem was not taking on health care but losing on health care. Unlike Mr. Rove, Mr. McConnell and other Repubicans, Thomas M. Davis III, a former congressman who served in the Republican leadership, said failure to pass health care would be worse for Democrats than passing it.
 ''If they pass nothing, their base -- the college professors, the African-Americans, all the surge voters who put them there, they just walk,'' Mr. Davis said. ''You don't want to think about it.'' The best option at that point for Mr. Obama, he added, would be to push through a narrower health care bill and argue to the base that at least he tried for the more expansive version.
 Still, for all the potential consequences, it is probably too hyperbolic to suggest the presidency rides on this moment. If he fails this week, Mr. Obama could still recover. Even a weakened president has enormous capacity to set an agenda. For all the damage Mr. Clinton absorbed from the failure of his health care plan and the Republican takeover, he eventually found his footing again and won re-election handily.
 Of course, he and Mr. Bush both recovered from early troubles in part because of leadership during moments of crisis -- Mr. Clinton after the bombing in Oklahoma City in 1995 and Mr. Bush after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. That may be harder for Mr. Obama, who inherited crises from the start in the form of two wars and an economic meltdown. The botched Christmas Day bombing suggested that Mr. Obama might face recriminations in case of a new crisis.
 But he has the benefit of time and residual personal popularity, not to mention an opposition with its own challenges. ''I don't think this will bring down the Obama presidency,'' said Mickey Edwards, a former Republican congressman from Oklahoma. ''People understand that there's a Congress and there are other issues and no matter how much of a hit the Democrats take in the elections this fall, there's still a lot of things he can do in the next three years.''
 The problem for Mr. Obama, Mr. Edwards added, is that he has raised the stakes himself so high. ''If he says this is make-or-break and my presidency depends on what the American people think of this issue,'' he said, ''then he's putting himself in a bad spot.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY NOLA LOPEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); FILIBUSTER (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); EMISSIONS (65%); GREENHOUSE GASES (61%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITCH MCCONNELL (90%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



366 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Driving Drunk In Jerusalem

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I am a big Joe Biden fan. The vice president is an indefatigable defender of U.S. interests abroad. So it pains me to say that on his recent trip to Israel, when Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu's government rubbed his nose in some new housing plans for contested East Jerusalem, the vice president missed a chance to send a powerful public signal: He should have snapped his notebook shut, gotten right back on Air Force Two, flown home and left the following scribbled note behind: ''Message from America to the Israeli government: Friends don't let friends drive drunk. And right now, you're driving drunk. You think you can embarrass your only true ally in the world, to satisfy some domestic political need, with no consequences? You have lost total contact with reality. Call us when you're serious. We need to focus on building our country.'' 
 I think that -- rather than fuming and making up -- would have sent a very useful message for two reasons. First, what the Israelis did played right into a question a lot of people are asking about the Obama team: how tough are these guys? The last thing the president needs, at a time when he is facing down Iran and China -- not to mention Congress -- is to look like America's most dependent ally can push him around.
 And second, Israel needs a wake-up call. Continuing to build settlements in the West Bank, and even housing in disputed East Jerusalem, is sheer madness. Yasir Arafat accepted that Jewish suburbs there would be under Israeli sovereignty in any peace deal that would also make Arab parts of East Jerusalem the Palestinian capital. Israel's planned housing expansion now raises questions about whether Israel will ever be willing to concede a Palestinian capital in Arab neighborhoods of East Jerusalem -- a big problem.
 Israel has already bitten off plenty of the West Bank. If it wants to remain a Jewish democracy, its only priority now should be striking a deal with the Palestinians that would allow it to swap those settlement blocs in the West Bank occupied by Jews for an equal amount of land from Israel for the Palestinians and then reap the benefits -- economic and security -- of ending the conflict. 
 Unfortunately, that is not what happened last week. For nine months now, America's Middle East special envoy, George Mitchell, has been trying to find a way to get any kind of peace talks going between Israelis and Palestinians. The Palestinians don't trust Netanyahu, and Netanyahu has serious doubts as to whether the divided Palestinian leadership can deliver.
 Nevertheless, Mitchell was eventually able to persuade the two sides to agree on ''proximity talks'' -- the Palestinians would sit in Ramallah and the Israelis in Jerusalem and Mitchell would shuttle 30 minutes between them. After a decade of direct talks, this is how far things have fallen.
 Mitchell's and Netanyahu's aides struck an informal deal: If America got talks going, there would be no announcements of buildings in East Jerusalem, nothing to embarrass the Palestinians and force them to walk. Netanyahu agreed, U.S. officials say, but made clear he couldn't commit to anything publicly. 
 So what happened? Biden arrived the day after the proximity talks started and out came an announcement from Israel's Interior Ministry that Israel had just approved plans for 1,600 new housing units in Arab East Jerusalem.
 Netanyahu said he was blindsided. It's probably true in the narrow sense. The move seems to have been part of a competition between two of Netanyahu's right-wing Sephardi ministers from the religious Shas Party over who can be the greater champion of building homes for Sephardi orthodox Jews in East Jerusalem. It is a measure of how much Israel takes our support for granted and how out of touch the Israeli religious right is with America's strategic needs. 
 Biden -- a real friend of Israel's -- was quoted as telling his Israeli interlocutors: ''What you are doing here undermines the security of our troops who are fighting in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. That endangers us and endangers regional peace.''
 This whole fracas also distracts us from the potential of this moment: Only a right-wing prime minister, like Netanyahu, can make a deal over the West Bank; Netanyahu's actual policies on the ground there have helped Palestinians grow their economy and put in place their own rebuilt security force, which is working with the Israeli Army to prevent terrorism; Palestinian leaders Mahmoud Abbas and Salam Fayyad are as genuine and serious about working toward a solution as any Israel can hope to find; Hamas has halted its attacks on Israel from Gaza; with the Sunni Arabs obsessed over the Iran threat, their willingness to work with Israel has never been higher, and the best way to isolate Iran is to take the Palestinian conflict card out of Tehran's hand. 
 In sum, there may be a real opportunity here -- if Netanyahu chooses to seize it. The Israeli leader needs to make up his mind whether he wants to make history or once again be a footnote to it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (87%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (89%); JOE BIDEN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (97%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



367 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: Leno Engineers a Rerun for the Turbine Car

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
BURBANK, Calif.
 JAY LENO says he is old enough to remember when Detroit was a symbol of America's prestige and manufacturing might, unlike its image today as a symbol of industrial decay and economic failure.
 ''In 1963, Chrysler Corporation produced a batch of turbine cars and took them on test drives around the world,'' said Mr. Leno, the reinstated host of ''The Tonight Show'' who is now 59. ''In countries where people were still riding bicycles and donkeys, Americans were driving jets.''
 Now, Mr. Leno noted dryly, Americans are driving by in Toyotas, a situation that he thinks holds a deeper message -- about Americans losing control of their own destiny. 
 ''That is sort of a cheap shot,'' Mr. Leno said, flashing his trademark smirk. ''It's probably unfair to Toyota, but everybody's piling on. I'm just as guilty as anyone, making Toyota jokes now just about every night.'' 
 Actually, Mr. Leno said there's nothing about America's battered auto industry that Yankee ingenuity and a can-do attitude couldn't fix. So Mr. Leno, owner of a vast collection of unusual vehicles, is proud to show off one of his most outlandish creations: the turbine-powered EcoJet supercar concept. 
 In a nod to their shared technology, he parks the EcoJet next to a 1963 Chrysler Turbine Car in his collection. ''It's the only one in private hands,'' he said conspiratorially during a recent tour of his sprawling garage complex here, not far from the studio where his show is recorded.
 The EcoJet is the result of a collaboration between General Motors and Mr. Leno's crew at the Big Dog Garage, as his hangout full of motor-driven toys is called. His collecting tastes run from 150-year-old steam engines to a turbine-powered motorcycle built at his shop. 
 The EcoJet, however, remains a road-ready favorite.
 ''It was built as a project,'' Mr. Leno recalled of the EcoJet's origins four years ago, ''and like most backyard projects, it kind of got out of hand.'' He won't say how much he has spent on the car.
 The shape of the carbon fiber-and-Kevlar EcoJet was inspired by the 2002 Cadillac Cien design study and enhanced with aerodynamic features seen on jet aircraft and Formula One racecars. The EcoJet made its debut at the 2006 Specialty Equipment Market Association trade show in Las Vegas, a mecca for customizers and hot rodders.
 ''It looked good, in a swoopy kind of way -- maybe a little too much like the Batmobile -- and it got a lot of interest,'' he said. ''But it wasn't running. So we decided to convert it into something that would actually run.''
 For motive power, Mr. Leno's crew installed a Honeywell LTS101 turbine engine from a Bell 222 helicopter. Television trivia buffs may remember that a modified Bell 222A was the star of the 1980s ''Airwolf'' series; the helicopter is now a staple of computer combat games.
 Developed by Lycoming Engines, the LTS101 can produce up to 850 horsepower. As used in the EcoJet, the turbine is in a milder state of tune, Mr. Leno said: ''About 650 horsepower.''
 By comparison, the Chrysler turbine was rated at just 130 horsepower, although it could produce an impressive 425 pound-feet of torque. ''Power-on was almost instantaneous,'' Mr. Leno noted. 
 That was good for 0-to-60 times of about 12 seconds, Mr. Leno said. The EcoJet is in another league: in a drag race staged at Edwards Air Force Base for Speed channel's ''Superstar Jet Car,'' the EcoJet hit 150 m.p.h. in less time than that and needed only a quarter-mile to do it, according to the program.
 The EcoJet accomplishes this with at least one very conventional component, a General Motors 4-speed automatic transmission that directs power to the rear wheels. ''Right out of the G.M. performance parts catalog,'' Mr. Leno said. ''It's a good strong unit that can handle the kind of torque being put out by a jet engine.''
 Other parts in the EcoJet are a little harder to come by. Mr. Leno is particularly pleased with a length of ducting that uses a feather-light aluminum coating supplied by NASA -- and can withstand the heat encountered during re-entry from orbit. 
 ''That's the real 'unobtanium,''' he said.
 Many such pieces were fabricated on a tool Mr. Leno called a 3-D copier. ''When they first came out with these things, they cost $2 million,'' he said, patting the machine admiringly. (He paid ''less than retail.'') The unit receives engineering designs as files from a computer and spits out full-scale plastic renditions. Molds can then be made around the plastic prototype.
 The EcoJet is meant to be a green machine, and as such it runs on biodiesel; although Jet A fuel is used to start the engine and shut it down. 
 ''The Jet A cleans it out,'' Mr. Leno said. ''The biodiesel can gunk it up.'' 
 The EcoJet can run on almost any combustible material, from soybean oil to French fry grease. 
 ''The president of Mexico, when he tested one of the Chrysler Turbines, ran it on tequila,'' Mr. Leno said. ''You could almost get drunk following it.''
 But the Chrysler Turbine Car proved impractical for everyday use. ''It got terrible mileage around town, although about 19 m.p.g. on the highway,'' Mr. Leno said. 
 The EcoJet has similar fuel economy. It burns eight to nine gallons of fuel an hour. ''Not so bad on the highway, but sort of ridiculous in stop-and-go city driving,'' he said.
 ''That and the sound it makes from its induction system is too loud,'' Mr. Leno added. ''People are astounded by it, and not always in a good way. We're working on a noise-cancellation system for it.''
 So the EcoJet remains a work in progress?
 ''Very much so,'' Mr. Leno said. ''It is not for production. When I see it, to me, it feels like the future.''
 Turnabout: Questions for a Show Host: Q. What was you first car? A. A 1934 Ford pickup. I was 14. Q. What was your first new car? A. A 1965 Buick Skylark Gran Sport. Q. What was your first motorcycle? A. A Honda 350 I bought it used in college. Q. When did you learn to ride a motorcycle? A. On the way home from the dealership. With no helmet, no license, in the rain. My glasses blew off. Q. When did you start collecting cars? A. I never thought of myself as a collector. I could never bring myself to sell anything. So, suddenly, I'm collecting them. Q. What was your first collector car? A. A 1932 Packard I bought from Phil Hill, the world champion. Q. What is the oldest car you own? A. A 1906 Stanley Steamer. Q. Do you have favorites? A. Probably the steamers. I like ''lost technology'' cars. The steamers keep you busy watching all the valves and gauges. Q. What was the most recent new car you bought? A. A 2005 Ford GT. Q. What car do you want to acquire next? A. I'll know it when I see it. Q. Are you looking to add anything to the collection? A.Yeah, my 1934 Ford pickup. I believe it's in New England someplace. JERRY GARRETT 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COUSINS: Clockwise from above, the EcoJet with a Chrysler Turbine Car from 1963
the design, from General Motors' studio, has Cadillac influence
Mr. Leno shows off the rearmounted engine
the snug interior seats two. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE AND RIGHT, BY JERRY GARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SPEED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); CONCEPT CARS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); FORMULA ONE RACING (57%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



368 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Managed Care: Get Used to It

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
WE may soon know whether Congress will approve some version of President Obama's health care plan. No matter what the outcome, there will be an unacknowledged monster lurking in the room: managed care.
 The concept embodies many modes of delivering medicine, ranging from the nightmarish bureaucratic encounter to the highly professional clinic. Some forms of managed care -- health maintenance organizations like Kaiser Permanente, for example -- have been accepted by broad segments of the population.
 But the obvious downside of managed care is that a provider may be stingy with service and access, precisely because ''fee for service'' treatment is limited. In the 1990s, many patients rebelled, objecting to bureaucratic decision-making and long delays for ''optional'' services. To this day, managed care is criticized in many circles. 
 It is still with us, however, and its role is certain to grow. The fundamental appeal is financial. All managed care plans have a built-in incentive to limit costs, because more treatments do not automatically mean more revenue for health providers. Today, many cost-control methods, such as integrated and electronic medical records, are already common in H.M.O.'s. During managed care's heyday in the early 1990s, inflation in health care costs was much lower than it is now.
 We may not like it, but third parties -- the government and insurance companies -- won't be able to pay for all the care that people desire. Yet the aging of the population will ensure that medical costs will spiral. Douglas W. Elmendorf, director of the Congressional Budget Office, has said that the administration's cost-control proposals do not ''reduce the trajectory of federal health spending by a significant amount.'' 
 We need to think carefully about how to say no without breaking the better side of our health care institutions. For all the complaints, managed care does not seem to hurt actual health care outcomes, whether pertaining to life expectancy or recovery from disease, according to a series of papers by David Cutler, an economics professor at Harvard, and co-authors.
 It's time to consider which forms of managed care -- relabeled, if necessary -- are likely to maintain the flow of innovation while keeping costs under control.
 For all of managed care's problems, national bankruptcy would be considerably worse, and that's where we're heading if we don't rein in health costs. We are already experiencing some preliminary symptoms. In addition to the financial burden of Medicare and Medicaid, rising insurance premiums in employer-provided plans are absorbing a large share of what might otherwise be wage increases. That makes us poorer and keeps us from buying safer cars, eating healthier food and investing as productively as we can. Health gains that accompany prosperity are largely invisible, so we tend to neglect them.
 Conceived in its broadest form, managed care can be run by the government, as in Britain, or left in the hands of a regulated private sector. Because the United States already has substantial private-sector capacity, and because many Americans are suspicious of government controls, the private route is the most likely option. Individuals would choose among competing providers -- and those providers would try to offer the most appealing bundles of services, relative to cost.
 The current tax exemption for health insurance benefits could be modified to encourage more cost-effective delivery systems, including forms of managed care that meet quality standards. For the elderly, the current Medicare fee-for-service method could be transformed into voucher programs for managed care treatment. Of course, people could go outside their network for additional services, if they were willing to pay.
 It's not well advertised, but the Obama plan would move in this direction. Many people receiving new health insurance coverage would be enrolled in Medicaid, which already relies on managed care for about half of its patients. 
 On a national scale, effective managed care will require the right mix of reputation and regulation to enforce provider commitments, and will need some reframing and renaming to make it palatable. It could accurately be called ''competitive, choice-based single-payer coverage.'' Perhaps there will be a jazzier, less foreboding name.
 The notion of using the market to experiment with cost-control methods isn't likely to be wildly popular. Still, it is better than relying on the federal government. It's far from obvious that Congress, inflexible and besieged by lobbyists, will make better decisions. Congress also tends to promise cost control up front but to postpone significant action indefinitely. Nor is it clear that electing politicians to choose a plan for people collectively is better than letting each person choose a plan directly.
 ON the other hand, for reasons of perceived fairness, some people may be more willing to accept a ''no'' answer on health care from a government agency than from a private company. If so, we run the risk of limiting our care choices just because we're more squeamish about one kind of ''no'' than another.
 The real challenge is to change our fundamental attitude toward health care. We live in a world where we can spend virtually everything we have on more and better treatment. The question is not managed care versus the status quo, but which opportunities -- and the restrictions that go with them -- we are prepared to accept.
 When will we acknowledge that our government -- or, for that matter, our insurance companies -- can't pay every bill? We're in denial, and the longer we wait, the more painful the solution will be. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); APPROVALS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); MEDICAL RECORDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); MEDICAID (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); MEDICARE (72%); INSURANCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); AGING TRENDS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (51%)

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



369 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Dodd to Unveil Comprehensive Financial Overhaul Bill

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The chairman of the Senate Banking Committee will unveil on Monday a proposal to revamp the nation's financial regulations that would empower shareholders to have advisory votes on executive pay and to nominate directors for the boards of public companies through company proxy ballots, several people briefed on the draft legislation said Saturday. 
 The shareholder provisions, which have been vigorously opposed by many corporations and by Republicans, will be part of a bill that would amount to the most sweeping overhaul of financial regulations since the Depression. In one of the most fiercely debated provisions, the bill would create a consumer financial protection agency under the umbrella of the Federal Reserve, a move certain to disappoint liberal Democrats who believe the Fed failed to safeguard consumers in the months leading up to the banking meltdown.
With no Republican support yet for the proposal, Democratic lawmakers and the White House have been gearing up for a potentially bitter partisan fight. 
 The impending proposal by the chairman, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, hews in many ways to a proposal advanced last summer by the White House, the people briefed on the legislation said.
 Mr. Dodd said Thursday that Democrats would proceed on their own after months of stop-and-start negotiations with Republicans over a bipartisan compromise yielded little progress.
 As Senate aides worked through the weekend on drafting the legislation, key elements became clear, according to the people briefed on the negotiations, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the situation was still fluid.
 The consumer financial protection agency would have a director appointed by the president and the ability to write rules governing mortgages, credit cards, payday loans and a wide range of other financial products.
 It would have some ability to ensure that the rules are followed; how the rules would be enforced has been a major source of partisan division. As in a House version of regulatory overhaul adopted in December, the bill would, in some circumstances, restrict states from writing their own, stronger consumer protection rules. 
 The Federal Reserve would see its bank supervision powers significantly diminished. It would continue to oversee bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in assets, and would be entrusted to regulate systemically important nonbank financial institutions. Mr. Dodd had considered setting the threshold at $100 billion, which would have been even worse for the Fed. 
 Smaller bank holding companies, if they have a federal charter, would be overseen by a new regulator formed out of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which already oversees national banks. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which already oversees state-chartered banks that are not members of the Fed system, would gain oversight over those that are.
 The provision for shareholder input on executive pay would represent a significant shift in corporate governance, handing a victory to shareholder activists and investors, large and small. While ''say on pay,'' as the provision is called, would be advisory and not binding, compensation consultants and the companies that use them fear that the provision would allow populist sentiment to boil over from annual meetings into boardrooms.
 Giving shareholders a way to nominate their own slates of directors using the proxy ballots that companies mail to shareholders would be similarly unnerving for boards that customarily designate their own successors, with little input or opposition from stockholders.
 The proposal would substantially alter the role of the Federal Reserve in protecting the economy, but the net effect would be a mixed outcome for the central bank.
 On one hand, the Fed would be entrusted with oversight over all systemically important financial institutions, even if they are not banks. American International Group, the insurance giant that nearly brought down the financial system, was the most notorious example of such a company in the recent financial crisis. The Fed would also continue to oversee the nation's largest bank holding companies -- those with assets of $50 billion or more, or about 35 companies. 
 In addition, investment banks like Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, which converted to bank holding companies in 2008 to take advantage of the Fed's liquidity programs, would not be able to go back to their earlier status to avoid Fed oversight.
 On the other hand, the Fed would lose oversight over more than 4,900 bank holding companies with roughly $3 trillion in assets, and about 870 state-chartered banks that are members of the Fed system and have a total of $1.7 trillion in assets. 
 The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and leaders of the Fed's 12 district banks have pressed Congress to let the Fed retain its say over smaller banks, and the fact that senators appear to be unwilling to go along is a reflection of the central bank's diminished prestige in the wake of the financial crisis. 
 The bill would also create a council to detect systemic risks to the financial system, and trigger, if necessary, a process to seize and dismantle a large financial firm on the verge of failure; the goal would be to limit the possibility of a broader meltdown and the need for a government bailout.
 The risk council would be headed by the treasury secretary and include representatives of the Fed, the new consumer agency, the F.D.I.C., the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Federal Housing Finance Agency -- along with an official appointed to monitor the insurance industry, which is largely regulated by the states.
 The bill would also impose comprehensive regulation of the sprawling market in over-the-counter derivatives. Standardized swaps and derivatives would have to be traded on exchanges or clearinghouses. 
 But companies that do not primarily deal in derivatives and are not major participants in the swaps market would be exempt from the new requirements. The size and extent of that exemption has been a key focus of behind-the-scenes negotiations over the past several months.
 A key Republican objection to the consumer agency is that a new body of regulators empowered to write and enforce consumer protection rules could interfere with existing regulators tasked with ensuring the ''safety and soundness'' of banks.
 To address that objection, Mr. Dodd would allow the consumer agency's rules to be overturned by a two-thirds vote of the new systemic risk council, or 6 of the 8 members, the people briefed on the matter said. In addition, the consumer agency would have enforcement powers over only those banks with more than $10 billion in assets. It would potentially have the ability to issue sanctions against nonbank financial companies, like payday lenders, debt collectors and mortgage originators and servicers.
 While the bill addresses many of the priorities the Obama administration outlined last July, and which the House acted on in a financial regulatory overhaul adopted in December, the bill does not go as far as the White House would like in reining in the size and scope of banks.
 In January, Mr. Obama put forward a proposal he called the Volcker Rule, named for Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, which would prohibit deposit-taking banks from investing in or owning hedge funds or private equity funds, and from making market bets with their own money, as opposed to their customers' money, a practice known as proprietary trading. Senators from both parties have said that the Volcker Rule arrived late, and have been wary of adding to a bill that is already of immense length and complexity. Like the House bill, the Dodd proposal would empower regulators to crack down on excessively risky practices, but not ban proprietary trading outright.
 It appeared that Mr. Dodd was focused on advancing a proposal that could advance through the Banking Committee with united support among its Democratic members, and hoped to have a committee vote on the bill before Congress recesses on March 26.
 He appeared to be taking steps to satisfy concerns by several Democrats on the committee, including Jack Reed of Rhode Island, who has advocated for an autonomous consumer agency, and Charles E. Schumer of New York Democrat, who has advocated for shareholder rights. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); LIBERALISM (74%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (69%); CHECK CASHING SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



370 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3181 words

HEADLINE: Phone Fight!

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE and MIGUEL HELFT

 BODY:
IT looked like the beginning of a beautiful friendship.
 Three years ago, Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive of Google, jogged onto a San Francisco stage to shake hands with Steven P. Jobs, Apple's co-founder, to help him unveil a transformational wonder gadget -- the iPhone -- before throngs of journalists and adoring fans at the annual MacWorld Expo.
 Google and Apple had worked together to bring Google's search and mapping services to the iPhone, the executives told the audience, and Mr. Schmidt joked that the collaboration was so close that the two men should simply merge their companies and call them ''AppleGoo.'' 
 ''Steve, my congratulations to you,'' Mr. Schmidt told his corporate ally. ''This product is going to be hot.'' Mr. Jobs acknowledged the compliment with an ear-to-ear smile. 
 Today, such warmth is in short supply. Mr. Jobs, Mr. Schmidt and their companies are now engaged in a gritty battle royale over the future and shape of mobile computing and cellphones, with implications that are reverberating across the digital landscape.
 In the last six months, Apple and Google have jousted over acquisitions, patents, directors, advisers and iPhone applications. Mr. Jobs and Mr. Schmidt have taken shots at each other's companies in the media and in private exchanges with employees. 
 This month, Apple sued HTC, the Taiwanese maker of mobile phones that run Google's Android operating system, contending that HTC had violated iPhone patents. The move was widely seen as the beginning of a legal assault by Apple on Google itself, as well as an attempt to slow Google's plans to extend its dominion to mobile devices. 
 Apple believes that devices like smartphones and tablets should have tightly controlled, proprietary standards and that customers should take advantage of services on those gadgets with applications downloaded from Apple's own App Store. 
 Google, on the other hand, wants smartphones to have open, nonproprietary platforms so users can freely roam the Web for apps that work on many devices. Google has long feared that rivals like Microsoft or Apple or wireless carriers like Verizon could block access to its services on devices like smartphones, which could soon eclipse computers as the primary gateway to the Web. Google's promotion of Android is, essentially, an effort to control its destiny in the mobile world.
 While the discord between Apple and Google is in part philosophical and involves enormous financial stakes, the battle also has deeply personal overtones and echoes the ego-fueled fisticuffs that have long characterized technology industry feuds. (Think Intel vs. A.M.D., Microsoft vs. everybody, and so on.) 
 Yet according to interviews with two dozen industry watchers, Silicon Valley investors and current and former employees at both companies -- most of whom requested anonymity to protect their jobs or business relationships -- the clash between Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Jobs offers an unusually vivid display of enmity and ambition. 
 At the heart of their dispute is a sense of betrayal: Mr. Jobs believes that Google violated the alliance between the companies by producing cellphones that physically, technologically and spiritually resembled the iPhone. In short, he feels that his former friends at Google picked his pocket. 
 ''We did not enter the search business. They entered the phone business,'' Mr. Jobs told Apple employees during an all-hands meeting shortly after the public introduction of the iPad in January, according to two employees who were there and heard the presentation. ''Make no mistake: Google wants to kill the iPhone. We won't let them.''
 One of these employees said Mr. Jobs returned to the topic of Google several times in the session and even disparaged its slogan ''Don't be evil'' with an expletive, which drew thunderous applause from his underlings.
 Apple declined to comment for this article. Larry Page and Sergey Brin, Google's co-founders, have openly expressed admiration for Mr. Jobs, and Google says it isn't at war with its former ally. ''Apple is a valued partner, and we have great respect for everything they have done for technology for more than 30 years,'' says Jill Hazelbaker, a Google spokeswoman.
 In a statement, Mr. Schmidt concurred. ''I continue to believe, as many do, that Steve Jobs is the best C.E.O. in the world today, and I admire Apple and Steve enormously,'' he wrote. 
 Despite such sentiments, the tech world at large is watching the battle between Apple and Google with shock and awe.
 ''I'm sure it is going to get uglier,'' says David B. Yoffie, a professor at Harvard Business School who has studied the tech industry for decades. ''To beat Apple, Google is going to have to be very aggressive. If they are successful, it will put price pressure on Apple and the iPhone.''
 One well-connected Silicon Valley investor, who did not want to be identified talking about the Google-Apple feud, says he is stunned by the level of rancor he's witnessed. 
 ''It's World War III. Amazing animosity is motivating two of the most powerful people in the industry,'' he says. ''This is emotional. This is the biggest ego battle in history. It's incendiary.''
 THE fight features two Valley veterans whose styles couldn't be more different. Mr. Schmidt is a brainy technologist turned executive. He is measured and professorial in public, but takes pride in being tough.
 Along with Mr. Page and Mr. Brin, he has infused Google with an intense competitiveness and an almost evangelical belief that its engineers can do just about everything better than its rivals.
 Mr. Jobs, of course, is the master marketer and innovator who exerts authoritarian control over every aspect of Apple. Since he helped to found the company in 1976, he has been known to elevate the fight against rivals -- first I.B.M. and Microsoft, and later Dell -- into corporate calls to battle, using the specter of the enemy to motivate employees and sharpen Apple's image in the public eye.
 But in this latest battle with Google, his actions appear to be unusually emotional. In filing the lawsuit over Android phones, he positioned his company as an aggrieved victim finally standing up to the playground bully. ''We can sit by and watch competitors steal our patented inventions, or we can do something about it,'' he said in a statement when the suit was filed. ''We've decided to do something about it.''
 Google said that day that it wasn't a party to the suit but that it would ''stand behind'' HTC. And, privately, some Google executives say they worry that the lawsuit could hold back Android, which is also being built into tablets that could rival the iPad.
 Mr. Schmidt hasn't shied away from taking public swipes at Apple, either. In January at the World Economic Forum, when asked what he thought of Apple's new iPad, due to go on sale early next month, he joked to reporters: ''You might want to tell me the difference between a large phone and a tablet.'' 
 Although Mr. Jobs and Mr. Schmidt both began working in Silicon Valley in the late 1970s, their paths rarely crossed. But by 2001, with Mr. Jobs back at Apple and Mr. Schmidt running Google, they shared a singular mission: limiting Microsoft's hegemony to the personal computer and ensuring that Bill Gates didn't dominate the frontier of online services and mobile devices. 
 When Mr. Schmidt was invited to join Apple's board in 2006, he and Mr. Jobs lavished praise on each other.
 Behind the scenes, closer bonds between the two companies had formed. Google's co-founders, Mr. Page and Mr. Brin, considered Mr. Jobs a mentor and, according to a former Apple executive, were regular visitors to Mr. Jobs's office in Cupertino, Calif., during Google's early days. 
 Mr. Brin was also known to take long walks with Mr. Jobs near his house in Palo Alto, and in the nearby foothills of the Santa Cruz Mountains. According to colleagues, they discussed the future of technology and planned some joint ventures that never came to fruition -- like a collaborative effort to develop a version of Apple's Safari browser for Windows.
 Another former Google executive said Mr. Page and Mr. Brin ''spoke very openly about their admiration for Jobs and how he's a role model for them as they grow into becoming executives.'' Mr. Page and Mr. Brin declined to be interviewed. People close to the company say they are disappointed that the relationship with Apple has soured. 
 Still, they and other Google executives see the company's push to open up the industry and to succeed in mobile computing as too important to sacrifice just to placate Mr. Jobs.
 BY all accounts, Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Jobs were never close friends. But they dined together on several occasions, according to a former associate of Mr. Schmidt's, and Mr. Jobs never hesitated to call Mr. Schmidt directly to voice his opinions. Mr. Schmidt, several friends say, relished his position on Apple's board and the proximity it gave him to one of the most famous figures in American business.
 But it didn't take long for friction to emerge. When Apple began selling the iPhone in 2007, Google was already quietly ramping up efforts to develop Android, its own smartphone operating system.
 Two years earlier, Google had acquired the start-up that was developing Android. At the time, the move was largely aimed at Microsoft and meant to ensure that it didn't wind up controlling the market for mobile devices. But when Microsoft faltered in the emerging smartphone market, and other companies like Research In Motion and then Apple began to dominate instead, Google continued to push ahead with Android and its vision of a more open mobile phone ecosystem.
 As Google's plans took shape, Apple and Google executives either met in person or spoke on the phone on multiple occasions about Apple's concern about Android, executives on both sides say. 
 Many of those meetings turned confrontational, according to people familiar with the discussions, with Mr. Jobs often accusing Google of stealing iPhone features. Google executives said that Android's features were based on longstanding ideas already circulating in the industry and that some Android prototypes predated the iPhone. 
 At one particularly heated meeting in 2008 on Google's campus, Mr. Jobs angrily told Google executives that if they deployed a version of multitouch -- the popular iPhone feature that allows users to control their devices with flicks of their fingers -- he would sue. Two people briefed on the meeting described it as ''fierce'' and ''heated.'' 
 While Google listened to Apple, it rarely backed down. ''I don't think they made many accommodations,'' says a former Google executive who was briefed on the discussions. ''Google is not a company that is particularly afraid of anyone, including Apple.''
 Google did proceed cautiously with Android, at least initially. The first versions of the software, which appeared on devices in 2008, didn't feature multitouch. The phones were slow and unwieldy, and Google insiders joked that they looked like bricks.
 But as Android-powered devices kept improving, Apple became more concerned. When Mr. Jobs returned to work from a prolonged health leave last year, he faced an array of emerging Android-powered phones like the Motorola Droid, with sleeker lines, improved performance and, like the other Android phones, the ability to run multiple applications at the same time. 
 Highlighting the escalating rivalry, Verizon ran ads for the Droid that took aim at the iPhone with the tagline ''Everything iDon't ... Droid Does.''
 AS tensions mounted between Mr. Schmidt and Mr. Jobs, their infighting became more public. When Google tried to get its voice mail management program, Google Voice, onto the iPhone, Apple blocked the effort last July, citing privacy concerns. Then, last August, Mr. Schmidt stepped down from Apple's board, prompted in part by regulatory concerns over ties between the two companies but also because Apple said his position had become untenable.
 When Mr. Jobs announced Mr. Schmidt's departure from the board, he noted that with Android and plans for a computer operating system, Google was ''unfortunately'' entering more of Apple's ''core business.'' 
 Then a wrestling match began on the acquisition front.
 Last fall, Apple made a formal bid to acquire AdMob, a rapidly growing mobile advertising company, for $600 million. AdMob specializes in developing ads that run inside mobile phone applications, like those on the iPhone. 
 While Apple conducted due diligence on the deal, AdMob agreed to a 45-day ''no shop'' provision, a routine clause that prevented the start-up from offering itself for sale to others, according to three people briefed on the negotiations. But after Apple inexplicably let 45 days pass without consummating its offer, Google pounced. 
 Their interest piqued by Apple's pursuit of the start-up, Mr. Schmidt, along with Mr. Page, Mr. Brin and other Google executives, began intensely courting Omar Hamoui, AdMob's young chief executive. AdMob, the Google guys argued, belonged in their corporate family because Google -- unlike Apple -- was an old pro in advertising. They also promised that AdMob employees would be able to cash out stock options sooner than Apple's deal would have allowed. It also didn't hurt that Google was willing to pay a 25 percent premium over Apple's offer. 
 Three days after the no-shop provision expired, Google agreed to buy AdMob -- putting a whopping $750 million price tag on a four-year-old company with modest revenue. Jilted and angry, Mr. Jobs speculated that AdMob might have violated its legal obligations, with help from Google, according to two people briefed on the fallout from the negotiations.
 (Neither AdMob nor Google would comment on any aspect of the process. The acquisition is being reviewed by the Federal Trade Commission for possible antitrust problems.)
 One executive familiar with Google's acquisitions strategy said the company was willing to pay a large premium for AdMob simply to keep the company out of Apple's arms. ''There is no way AdMob would have gotten $750 million if he wasn't worried that it would end up in the hands of Steve,'' the executive said. ''Are they going to get $750 million in cash flow back? No way.'' 
 Apple rebounded quickly, buying Quattro Wireless, a rival to AdMob, for close to $300 million in January -- signaling that Apple and Google would duke it out for pre-eminence in the ad market for mobile devices. 
 In the tech press, however, Apple's announcement was overshadowed by much bigger news. The same day, Google introduced the Nexus One, its flagship phone designed in close collaboration with HTC, which carried some of the unmistakable design flourishes associated with the iPhone.
 And later that month, days after Mr. Jobs derided Google's ''Don't be evil'' mantra, Google dropped any pretense of conciliation: it sent out a software update to the Nexus One, adding multitouch capabilities and thereby openly crossing a line that Mr. Jobs had drawn in the sand. 
 INSIDE both Apple and Google, employees say, the sense of rivalry is intense and a peacemaker is sorely needed. ''I've never seen anything quite like it in my life,'' one Apple employee says. ''I'm in so many meetings where so many potshots are taken. It feels weird.''
 At Google, which counts Microsoft, Facebook and Yahoo on an ever-expanding list of rivals, the enmity toward Apple is not quite as widespread. After all, the iPhone has helped to fuel the popularity of Google mobile services and ads. 
 The spat overGoogle Voice, along with other confrontations, sharpened one of Google's worst fears: that a rival could keep millions of people from accessing its services. A Google executive vowed to bring Google Voice to the iPhone ''one way or the other,'' and the company quickly developed a workaround to circumvent the Apple block.
 If anyone could negotiate a ceasefire, it would be Bill Campbell, a well-regarded Silicon Valley business counselor known simply as Coach.
 Mr. Campbell, a former college football coach and the former chief executive of Intuit, has played pivotal roles at Google. He sat in on high-level management meetings, counseled Mr. Schmidt individually in private sessions every other week, helped to establish the company's management structure, and had a hand in smoothing over the initially turbulent relationship between Mr. Schmidt and Google's founders. 
 Mr. Campbell also looms large at Apple, where he is co-chairman of the board, and was one of the few people in whom Mr. Jobs confided during his health crisis.
 While Mr. Campbell has tried to be a diplomat and smooth over the problems between Mr. Jobs and Mr. Schmidt, the task hasn't been easy. Mr. Campbell declined to comment for this article, but people briefed on the matter say that throughout last fall, Mr. Jobs and Mr. Schmidt each lobbied Mr. Campbell to sever his connection with the other's company, at times even giving him ultimatums to do so.
 Finally, Mr. Campbell was forced to choose, and according to a person with knowledge of the situation, he dropped his formal responsibilities at Google, although he is still informally mentoring executives there.
 Mitch Kapor, the founder of Lotus Development and now a tech investor, describes such infighting as ''old wine in a new bottle,'' and reminiscent of many past corporate battles in Silicon Valley. He sees the old dynamics between Apple and Microsoft being recycled, with Apple still trying to control every aspect of the user experience, and Google, like Microsoft before it, working with multiple partners to flood the market with a large number of devices. 
 While mobile phone developers favor the iPhone for now, ''they are all racing ahead to develop for Android, too,'' Mr. Kapor says. ''Tight control helps in the beginning, but it tends to choke things in the long term.'' 
 APPLE and Google remain partners in certain areas. Google pays Apple millions of dollars annually to make its search engine the default on Apple's Web browser, on the iPhone and soon, perhaps, on the iPad. 
 But there is wide speculation in technology circles that Apple is preparing to give Google a public black eye: by making Microsoft's offering, Bing, the preferred search engine on the iPad, and perhaps even on the iPhone. One Apple employee says that Qi Lu, the president of Microsoft's online services division, was recently seen visiting Apple's campus in Cupertino to discuss such a deal. Microsoft declined to comment.
 A deal with Microsoft may not a big blow to Google financially, because many iPhone and iPad users will undoubtedly visit Google's search service from their device's Web browser. But the backing of Mr. Jobs would amount to a very valuable and high-profile product endorsement for Microsoft, which has been the perennial underdog in search.
 And it would present an unlikely sight: Steve Jobs and Apple, running from the arms of Eric Schmidt and Google, into the embrace of Steve Ballmer and Microsoft. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steve Jobs, left, and Eric Schmidt introduced the iPhone together in '07. Google has since branched into phones and angered Apple. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Apple sees Android phones like the Motorola Droid, right, as iPhone clones. Google says some prototypes predate the iPhone, left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE FREY/GETTY IMAGES)
Google's Sergey Brin, left, and Eric Schmidt, center, with Apple's Steve Jobs at Macworld, the trade show, back in January 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BU6)
 Apple bid $600 million for AdMob, led by Omar Hamoui. Then Google bought it for $750 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (BU7) DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); SMARTPHONES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); PATENTS (87%); TABLET COMPUTERS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (77%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (73%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (67%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (66%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); GOOGLE INC (97%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); INTEL CORP (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (97%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (97%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (94%); STEVEN JOBS (94%); SERGEY BRIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



371 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: The Rise of Superbugs and the Abuse of Antibiotics

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Spread of Superbugs'' (column, March 7):
 After learning that Nicholas D. Kristof believes that agribusiness is a major culprit behind the emergence of superbugs, as an infectious diseases expert, I feel that he needs to make rounds with me. 
 In reality, a patient commonly receives (or in some cases, demands) an antibiotic -- when it's not needed. Those who fail to improve get admitted to hospitals and become victims to further abuse with even stronger antibiotics. This, not agribusiness, leads to the development of superbugs.
 Some patients suffer; others succumb. As cost-effectiveness is the only attention-grabber for the hospital administrators, such poor outcomes go unnoticed. The business of health care starts looking no different from agribusiness -- and the cycle keeps repeating itself.
 Preventing the abuse of antibiotics in humans should remain the focus of regulatory agencies, medical societies and the media. Alleging that ''agribusiness madly overuses antibiotics, leaving them ineffective for sick humans'' is barking up the wrong tree.
 Faheem Younus Baltimore, March 8, 2010
 The writer is chief and medical director, Division of Infectious Disease and Prevention, Upper Chesapeake Health, and clinical assistant professor at the University of Maryland School of Medicine.
 To the Editor:
 On our family farm, I'm raising three young girls. I'm also raising, at any given time, around 3,000 beef cattle.
 The fact is, nobody cares more about cattle than the people of the beef industry. Caring for our cattle, like caring for my daughters, sometimes means using antibiotics. When our doctor prescribes antibiotics for my daughter, I ask questions. I do the same thing with our cattle.
 My family believes that it is our responsibility to deliver the healthiest animals to the human food supply. That means using antibiotics in a judicious way, in accordance with our Beef Quality Assurance training and in cooperation with our veterinarian.
 My family eats the beef we raise, and we do so with confidence. Restricting access to antibiotics won't mean healthier people; it will mean more illness for animals.
 Anne Burkholder Cozad, Neb., March 9, 2010
 To the Editor:
 In talking about the role of agribusiness in the rise of antibiotic resistance, Nicholas D. Kristof doesn't mention the role that health insurance carriers should be playing in dealing with agribusiness.
 If health care reform is got even marginally right, health insurers will suddenly have real economic incentive to maximize the health of the people they cover, rather than simply dropping coverage of those who get sick as they do now. It will then be in the best interest of the health care industry and its lobbyists to tackle major public health issues.
 While agribusiness has plenty of high-powered lobbyists, they might meet their match if health care lobbyists are suddenly working on restricting the use of antibiotics in livestock, not to mention the potential fight with agribusiness over trying to improve the average American diet.
 Jeremy M. Posner New York, March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIBIOTICS (93%); BACTERIA (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LOBBYING (88%); ANIMALS (88%); MAMMALS (86%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); HOSPITALS (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (74%); INSURANCE (73%); WRITERS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); FAMILY FARMS (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); BEEF (69%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (57%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



372 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; POLITICS; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: A Time to Consider Local Fuel Fees

BYLINE: By DANIEL WEINTRAUB. 
Daniel Weintraub has reported on California politics and policy for more than 20 years.

 BODY:
Democrats in the Legislature threw a fiscal lifeline to public transit last week, bolstering financing for buses and trains at a time when the state is cutting just about everything else.
 But leaders of the Bay Area's Metropolitan Transportation Commission saw the moment as a lost opportunity for fundamental change in the way California pays for public transit.
 The Bay Area commission is perhaps the state's strongest advocate for a proposal that would allow voters to adopt local fees on gasoline and diesel fuel to finance transit service and pay for street and trail improvements that would benefit pedestrians and cyclists. 
 That provision was in a version of the transportation bill passed by the Assembly last month. But it was dropped in final negotiations with Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger before lawmakers sent the package to his desk Thursday. 
 As it now stands, the legislation would engineer a complex tax swap, repealing the state sales tax on gasoline while increasing the per-gallon excise tax and the sales tax on diesel fuel. The end result would be an immediate $400 million infusion for transit operations and $350 million a year dedicated to transit beginning in 2011. It is not clear how much of that money would come to the Bay Area.
 Randy Rentschler, who follows state legislation for the commission, said his agency's leaders were grateful for the relief, but still thought the Legislature had taken away far more than it gave back last week. 
 That is why they see a local fuel fee as such an important step: it could free transit from the whims of state government and its often disruptive revenue swings. 
 ''Local government and state government need a clear separation,'' Mr. Rentschler said. ''Some people would use the word 'divorce.' ''
 A local fee, he said, could provide a big boost in financing for transit. Transit operations in the region now cost about $2.2 billion a year. A fee of 10 cents a gallon would raise about $300 million annually in the Bay Area.
 That money would help reverse the damage from recent service cuts and fare increases the local districts have adopted. The San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency raised fares by one-third last year, and the Alameda-Contra Costa district increased basic fares by 14 percent. BART raised fares by 6 percent and charged for parking at more stations.
 But most transit districts in the Bay Area and throughout California have been lukewarm to a local-option fee. Many transit operators worry that the state will continue to cut their financing, forcing them to seek support for a fee increase from local voters, with the prospects for approval uncertain at best.
 The version of the gasoline fee in the Assembly bill was even more problematic, in the view of transit operators, because it was linked to regional efforts to reduce heat-trapping gases that exacerbate global warming. The regional plans will be years in the making.
 Transit agencies face an immediate financial crisis because the state has reduced aid at the same time that the recession has depressed local sales tax collections and fare revenue. The transit districts need money now to preserve service, and most cannot afford to wait on the chance of something more promising a few years down the road.
 ''There is a lot of uncertainty right now,'' said Seamus Murphy, who manages government affairs for the San Mateo County Transportation District. ''We don't know how that fee would be implemented, or whether it will be, or when.''
 But Mr. Rentschler, of the transportation commission, said the apparent certainty in the latest plan was illusory. He said that any new money from the state would be great while it lasted, but that he had seen such promises evaporate before. Even this agreement was concocted to find a way around a legal judgment that had ordered the Legislature to give far more money to transit.
 ''The question is what is going to happen in the future if the state's deficit is chronic,'' he said. ''If past is prologue, the deal we cut this year won't be worth much next year.''
 Senator Mark James DeSaulnier, Democrat of Concord, agrees that transit needs a sustainable revenue source to grow as land-use planners seek to shift more people out of their cars to reduce heat-trapping gases.
 ''I don't think we're letting go of the idea,'' he said of the Democrats in the Legislature. ''This is something we need to do.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SALES TAX (88%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); TRAINS (78%); EXCISE TAX (75%); DIESEL FUEL (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (53%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



373 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Jeffrey Katz

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Katz, 62, is the chief executive and principal owner of Sherwood Equities Inc., which has developed and manages more than $3 billion in commercial real estate.
 The properties include the iconic One Times Square, home of the New Year's Eve crystal ball drop, and Two Times Square. The Sherwood Outdoor division controls the illuminated signs on both buildings.
 Q Last month, Mayor Bloomberg decided to make permanent the pedestrian areas on Broadway, from Times Square to Herald Square. Are you pleased with that decision? 
 A Yes, and I personally think it has the potential to be a tremendous improvement to the district and a real good thing for New York, if -- with a capital ''I''-- it's done properly.
 Q It hasn't been done properly?
 A It was done as an experiment, so it's understandable why it wasn't done with a lot of forethought and design input. But now that it's going forward, the administration should pause and collect a team for input that would almost guarantee a world-class result.
 There has been a lot of criticism, and ridicule, of this whole thing -- on David Letterman and Jay Leno. You see pictures of people in shorts eating a corned beef sandwich lying on the lounge chair. If it's done, it has to be done right.
 Q How do you envision the area?
 A People are talking about plazas in Europe -- they liken it to them. If it were up to me, I'd convene some of the best planners and some of the biggest stakeholders in the city, sit around the table and make sure we get it right.
 Q Have you noticed an improvement in traffic because of the pedestrian areas?
 A It did improve the traffic down Seventh Avenue, though not as much as the city had hoped. One of the problems we had in Times Square is that the sidewalks were overcrowded, and this alleviates that enormously, but there were other ways to do it. They could have taken a lane or two out of Broadway and Seventh and widened the sidewalks and still had traffic flowing through.
 Q Is traffic the main reason Times Square hasn't caught on as a residential area?
 A If you're a real New Yorker, it's not where you go to live.
 We built the only residential condo in Times Square -- 1600 Broadway -- with 135 apartments, and we had an expectation as to who we were going to sell it to. It turns out that we were wrong, but we were wrong in a good way. It was much more popular as an investment and a pied-a-terre. We only have a handful of New Yorkers living in there.
 Q How has business fared in the downturn?
 A Well, it's not been good. Business is tough all across the economy. We lost two signs with General Motors: we had a Chevrolet sign and a Pontiac sign. First time that ever happened. We replaced Pontiac with Hyundai, and we replaced Chevrolet with Kia.
 Q Are the new signage rents lower?
 A One is and one's not, so on balance it's about the same. I think Times Square is kind of an anomaly in terms of the pricing and retail signage value. It hasn't been hit as hard as the rest of the city, because of the tourism.
 Q Ever reject sign content?
 A The companies that advertise there are pretty much big companies and they're image-conscious, so it's pretty much self-policed. Every once in awhile you hear a crackpot idea and you've got to reel it back, but it doesn't happen very often. And from time to time, people will want to do political statements on the signs, and we've shied away from that. That's not our genre anyway. Those ads usually are for 30, 60, 90 days. Our big electronic LED ads have 10-year leases.
 Q Moving on to Grand Central, have you completed the capital-improvement program at 370 Lexington?
 A We're just about done. It was a total improvement, about $20 million to the building.
 Q Why the focus on small tenants there?
 A We are servicing part of the market that is very underserved. Normally, when people want 500 to 5,000 square feet, they're often relegated to secondary buildings. Most developers are interested in bigger tenants -- 10,000 feet and up. Part of the reason, too, is the geometry of the building: the floor plates are small.
 Q Will your next building be green?
 A I'm sure; that's what people want. At 370 Lex., we are doing an energy-conservation program. And at Times Square, we are powering the signs with wind energy through a special program with Con Edison.
 Q So how many Times Square celebrations have you been to?
 A Just one: the millennium.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CITY LIFE (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); DAVID LETTERMAN (50%); JAY LENO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



374 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Rays of Hope in Battling an Agonizing Disease

BYLINE: By SABIN RUSSELL

 BODY:
It wasn't until Ileana Peralta was in junior high school that she summoned the courage to Google her own disease. 
 The teenager from Livermore knew almost everything about her inherited condition, Epidermolysis bullosa, a tongue twister even doctors call just EB. The disease is caused by the lack of the collagen gene that makes the glue that tethers layers of skin together. It makes her skin seem as fragile as a butterfly's wing.
Ileana and other children with EB go through life with much of their bodies wrapped in gauze, like a burn patient. Their skin, at the slightest trauma, is prone to form blisters, which are vulnerable to infection. Scarring eventually curls fingers and toes, fusing them. To varying degrees, these children are condemned to a life of pain and disfigurement.
 EB is rare. Ileana's severe form of it, called recessive dystrophic, affects between one and four per one million in the United States, said Dr. Alfred T. Lane, a pediatric dermatologist. Dr. Lane was recruited to Stanford University Medical School 19 years ago to search for treatments for EB, and has been working on it ever since. 
 ''It's the worst skin disease that I know of,'' he said. ''This disease just cries out for help.'' 
 The handful of doctors in the United States who deal with EB are experimenting with some of the most advanced technologies in medicine -- gene therapy, stem cell therapy and bone marrow transplantation -- as a means of eventual treatment. 
 Last fall, the California Institute of Regenerative Medicine, the state agency that runs the voter-approved $3 billion stem cell research program, allotted $11.7 million to Stanford to find a way to harness the newest stem cell technologies against EB. The goal is a clinical trial by 2014.
 Under Dr. Lane's direction, the California stem cell money will pay for an approach using new techniques that transform ordinary skin cells into all-purpose stem cells. In theory, these stem cells can be engineered to carry the missing collagen gene, and can then be coaxed to grow large amounts of healthy skin grafts, immunologically compatible with each patient, like Ileana.
 When Ileana trolled the Web for information about her disease, she discovered that children who have it may not survive to adulthood. ''The part that scares me is that some kids died from it,'' she said. ''I'm glad I'm still here.''
 For most of Ileana's life, Dr. Lane's team has focused on developing gene therapy. The idea is to implant the missing gene -- for a protein called collagen VII -- in skin grafts. The chainlike collagen proteins, absent or damaged in people with EB, anchor the top layer of skin to the underlying dermis. 
 Engineered viruses would ferry the missing gene to laboratory cultures of the patient's skin, to be grown in sheets and later grafted. A clinical trial among adult patients is pending.
 The latest technique, sometimes called reprogramming, holds the promise of sidestepping the troublesome issues surrounding the use of embryonic stem cells -- controversial because they are derived from human embryos that are destroyed a few days after fertilization. 
 Reprogramming seemed like science fiction until 2006, when Dr. Shinya Yamanaka proved it could be done in mice. In 2007, Dr. Yamanaka and other researchers showed it could be done with human cells. 
 Reprogrammed cells are currently too dangerous for use in human studies, and a variety of hurdles must be cleared before such studies can happen. One study recently found, for example, that reprogrammed cells have a more limited lifespan than stem cells derived from embryos.
 On the other hand, researchers are rapidly fine-tuning the mechanisms of cellular reprogramming, making it simpler, more efficient and better understood. The field is now among the hottest in molecular biology.
 More controversial is an entirely different approach using bone marrow transplants, which swap a patient's own marrow with those of a healthy donor. The idea is to treat EB as a disease of the whole body, rather than one that can be repaired with skin grafts. EB affects not only the skin, but also weakens mucosal tissues in the mouth and gut, which cannot be grafted. 
 Dr. John E. Wagner Jr., a pediatric cancer researcher at the University of Minnesota Medical School, has done bone marrow transplants on seven EB children after studies on mice that showed that a select group of bone marrow cells could migrate to the skin and, for reasons not fully understood, replace missing collagen.
 Four of those patients ''are having improved quality of life,'' said Dr. Wagner, who has yet to publish his pediatric results. But two of the children died -- one from infections five months after an initial transplant, and the other during chemotherapy, before healthy bone marrow from a donor could be transplanted.
 Dr. Wagner agonizes over those deaths, but is convinced that the disease was so severe that it warranted the risk.
 ''I normally take care of patients with leukemia,'' he said, ''but then I think there are some things worse than leukemia.'' 
 Dr. Wagner's work is backed by DebRA, the Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa Research Association of America, as well as the Epidermolysis Bullosa Medical Research Foundation, two charitable organizations founded by parents.
 Dr. Lane of Stanford has reservations about the bone marrow procedure. ''For a child with large wounds,'' he said, ''you are really setting them up for infection.''
 Dr. Arthur Caplan, a bioethicist at the University of Pennsylvania, is also uneasy about conducting risky procedures on children.
 ''The sicker the children become, the harder it is to secure good, informed consent,'' Dr. Caplan said. ''In my experience, parents become desperate. They want to have hope, and often researchers want to offer hope.''
 For her part, Ileana said she was in no hurry to be a guinea pig. ''I probably want to wait until they know what they are doing,'' she said.
 Now 15 and a freshman at Grenada High in Livermore, Ileana confronts her disease with a combination of pluck and a straightforward attitude befitting someone considerably older. She is as matter-of-fact about everyday life as she is about her disease. She confesses to struggling in math at school and far prefers drawing. Her sketchbook is full of cartoon bats and characters like Jack Skellington from ''The Nightmare Before Christmas'' and SpongeBob SquarePants.
 Ileana knows the sting of EB every day when her mother, Stephanie Peralta, bathes her and wraps her in gauze. It can take 45 minutes to whirl the yards of white cotton bandage around her arms, her legs and her stomach. Some days the sores hurt more than others. Some days they hardly bother her at all.
 Bandaging Ileana is a labor of love for Ms. Peralta, a 31-year-old single mother, who lost her job at a freight forwarding company when the recession hit. She was 16 when she became pregnant with Ileana. Doctors knew when Ileana was born that something was wrong: on her right leg, there was no skin from the knee down.
 ''I was a teenage mom with a sick child,'' Ms. Peralta said. ''I grew up in a hurry, and just dealt with it.''
 Ileana appears to have inherited her mother's strength. ''I just try to get through it, the best you can, no matter how much it hurts,'' she said.
 When she goes outside, she knows people sometimes stare. ''If they're curious, they'll ask,'' she said. ''It's O.K. to ask.'' 
 Recently she attended a party, and met a girl whose mother has cancer. ''I asked her about it,'' she said. ''Pretty soon we were swapping stories.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: For Stephanie Peralta, bandaging her daughter, Ileana, is a labor of love. Ileana has a rare inherited skin disease that is often fatal.
 Ileana, 15, must keep most of her body wrapped in gauze, like a burn patient. Her skin is prone to blisters and infection. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); GENETIC DISEASES (90%); SKIN DISORDERS (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (89%); GENE BASED DRUGS (89%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (89%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WOUND CARE (89%); GENETIC & MOLECULAR MEDICINE (89%); DERMATOLOGY (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PEDIATRICS (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (72%); BURN INJURIES (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); GENE BASED DRUG DISCOVERY (66%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



375 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; ASCENDANT MARCH 7-13; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 490 words

 BODY:
THE NEWS For the first time in two decades, a majority of fashion designers, and almost two-thirds of those in New York, are using fur in their work, according to a review of more than 130 collections shown on Style.com. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The trend back toward fur, an expensive material long shunned because of protests by animal-rights activists, seemed surprising in a recession. But fur breeders and furriers have been courting designers aggressively with samples, junkets and technical help for a decade, especially those too young to remember the peak of anti-fur activism in the 1980s and '90s. 
 THE NEWS On the anniversary of hitting 12-year lows a year ago last week, the major stock indexes in the United States had rebounded by 50 to 70 percent, among the strongest 12-month performances on record. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS To many investors, the market gains felt more like recouped losses; make that, partly recouped losses. Though the broadest of the major indexes, the Nasdaq composite, reached new 18-month highs last week, it remained down by more than half from its peak, set at the height of the dot-com bubble 10 years ago last Wednesday.
 THE NEWS Carlos Slim Helu of Mexico passed Bill Gates and Warren E. Buffett to top Forbes magazine's annual list of billionaires, the first person outside the United States to do so in 16 years.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Mr. Slim's immense net worth (estimated at $53.5 billion) is built mainly on phones: when Mexico privatized its telecommunications monopoly in 1990, Mr. Slim was the winning bidder. He is also in retailing, banking and construction, and has a minor stake in The New York Times Company. Rounding out the top five were two industrialists from India, Mukesh Ambani and Lakshmi Mittal. 
 THE NEWS Tiger Woods, who has not played in a golf tournament since mid-November, was said to be planning to return to competition at the Masters in April, and to have hired a new public relations consultant to help with his return: Ari Fleischer, formerly George W. Bush's press secretary.
 BEHIND THE NEWS Mr. Woods himself wasn't talking, but the reports, attributed to unnamed people in his camp, were not denied. Mr. Fleischer has done public relations work for sports figures, including helping Mark McGwire, the steroid-tainted slugger, return to baseball this spring as a hitting instructor.
 THE NEWS Caravaggio, the Italian Renaissance master of hyper-realistic painting, has overtaken Michelangelo as a subject of academic study, a University of Toronto art historian says. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The historian, Philip Sohm, said it was not that scholars had run out of fresh things to say about Michelangelo. Rather, he said, the classically steeped work of Michelangelo, with its ideal human forms and epic scenes, may seem less germane to modern eyes than the work of the bohemian Caravaggio, whose off-of-the-street models and authentic subjects challenged Renaissance painting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VALERIO MEZZANOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS
CHIP EAST/REUTERS
POOL PHOTO BY LORI MOFFETT
 ALESSANDRO BIANCHI/ REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (90%); HISTORY (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); FUR APPAREL STORES (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); BASEBALL (74%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); ATHLETES (73%); FUR FARMING (73%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (73%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (67%); GOLF (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); ART HISTORY (63%); TOURNAMENTS (62%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (62%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (61%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (65%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (65%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (65%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%)

PERSON: CARLOS SLIM HELU (69%); BILL GATES (50%); TIGER WOODS (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); MUKESH AMBANI (50%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%); LAKSHMI N MITTAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



376 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 29A

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Support Network Seeks to Grow Biotech Companies

BYLINE: By JON VAN

 BODY:
Dr. Boris Pasche had worked for years with a battery-operated device to treat insomnia, but as he followed his research, he discovered that electromagnetic radiation from the apparatus might slow or stop tumor growth in some cancer patients, and he thought he could perhaps build a business around the idea. 
 Like most other academic researchers, Dr. Pasche knows little about starting a business or courting investors, but he is getting help for the Chicago-based biotechnology company he founded, TheraBionic.
The small-business development office at Northwestern University, where Dr. Pasche was affiliated, referred him to the Illinois biotechnology trade organization, iBIO, which linked him to local biotechnology volunteers offering guidance. They advised him on possible investors and coached him on making his pitch. 
 ''I submitted a grant proposal to the National Institutes of Health, as this is a novel, potentially transformational, technology,'' Dr. Pasche said. ''This is my baby. I'd really like to see it succeed.'' 
 TheraBionic is the sort of risky but high-potential company that might be a candidate for money under a federal program to promote commercial medical breakthroughs. 
 Universities and laboratories in the Chicago area have long been a source of innovations in the life sciences, but for decades inventors and entrepreneurs have often lacked the money and business savvy to bring their ideas to market. The story of TheraBionic and dozens of similar start-ups over the past few years indicates the serious effort to raise Chicago's standing as a commercial biotech center. 
 The main obstacle that start-ups face is the absence of a critical mass of daring investors like those who fuel biotechnology development on the coasts, said Michael Rosen, senior vice president for Forest City Enterprises and the Illinois Science + Technology Park in Skokie. 
 ''The problem is very few early-stage capital investment funds,'' Mr. Rosen said. 
 What the area does have are drug and medical products companies like Abbott Laboratories and Baxter International and the North American headquarters of such major players as Takeda and Astellas, Japan's top two pharmaceutical companies. In recent years, executives at those companies have begun helping fledgling entrepreneurs with the managerial, legal and other business expertise they need to commercialize their research. 
 The turnaround started at a trade show of BIO, the world's largest biotechnology organization. Chicago hosted the international BIO show in 2006, the first time the event was held outside the biotech centers on the East and West Coasts. The event attracted 20,000 participants, a record, and the process of organizing it helped bring together the area's often diffuse biotechnology community. 
 It began to focus on supporting struggling newcomers and raising their profile nationally.
 ''We learned a lot of people who attended the convention didn't know much about Chicago at all,'' said Dr. Norbert Riedl, Baxter's chief scientific officer and corporate vice president. ''They didn't know Baxter was here, Abbott, Takeda, Astellas -- and world-class universities were here. It was clear we had to do more to promote those aspects of Chicago.'' 
 Among the accomplishments after the trade show was a statewide program called Propel, modeled after an effort that helped turn San Diego into a biotechnology powerhouse.
 ''Propel is to train and educate entrepreneurs, to take innovation out of academic centers and place it into tech parks and allow it to flourish,'' Dr. Riedel said. 
 Therapeutic Proteins Inc., a Deerfield company that is opening a manufacturing plant on Chicago's South Side this spring, is one of the small local companies benefiting from Propel's efforts. It plans to add 30 employees to the 6 it has now when operations begin at the new plant, said Thomas L. Flynn III, its chief executive. The company will make proteins used in generic biologic therapies that regulate blood sugar, produce blood cells and stimulate the immune system. 
 Propel helped Mr. Flynn by identifying contractors who could build specialized manufacturing facilities, locating a site within a technology park and steering him toward loan and grant programs that would enable his company to hire new employees. The company settled at the tech park at the Illinois Institute of Technology, where it constructed a 12,000-square-foot production plant. 
 While iBio, Propel and other efforts have built a sense of momentum among business people and others in the state, the timing has proven to be a challenge. Total venture investment in biotechnology in the state had reached $100 million a year in 2006 and 2007, according to the Illinois Venture Capital Association, but the amount fell over the last two years to around $40 million, as the recession and tight credit markets caused a pullback on all venture investment. 
 Biotechnology's share of total venture investment hit a low of 8 percent in 2008, but climbed to 21 percent last year, close to the level in 2006, the year the trade show was in Chicago.
 ''This suggests the resilience of biotech in Illinois,'' said Maura O'Hara, executive director of the Illinois Venture Capital Association. ''Bouncing back to get about one-fifth of the state's venture investment is an accomplishment.'' 
 Another iBIO gathering is scheduled for McCormick Place in May, and Mr. Flynn hopes to use it to show off his company's capabilities to buyers from around the world. The show promotes such deal-making by, among other things, arranging computerized match-ups between vendors and potential customers.
 In the past few years, Propel has helped about 50 companies file for patents on their technology and secure increased financing, said David Miller, executive director of iBIO. Several have advanced enough to expand their work force, he said 
 Still, Mr. Miller said, Illinois has not seen its biotech start-up companies prosper as much as those based in Wisconsin, Ohio and Michigan. iBIO plans to change Propel's legal status to that of a philanthropic entity that can receive federal grants and foundation money, something a trade organization like iBIO cannot do. 
 Mr. Miller's organization is also seeking state legislation to provide tax breaks to those who invest in early-stage start-up companies. Twenty-five other states have such tax breaks, he said, and most have seen a marked increase in new technology companies. 
 Getting Illinois lawmakers to pass a tax break at a time when the state is desperate for more revenue may be difficult, though Mr. Miller said that iBIO's proposed legislation passed the Senate last year with no opposition and that this year a quarter of the membership of the House had agreed to sponsor the measure. 
 Providing tax breaks to early-stage investors ''would be a good step in the right direction,'' said Thomas Churchwell, managing partner of Chicago-based Midwest Venture Partners. Early-stage investors, or ''angels,'' help start-up companies stay in business through a period known as ''the valley of death'' when development costs are high and clinical trials must be conducted. Venture capitalists typically come in when the product is nearly ready for market. 
 ''You start with angel funding and some combination of venture capital and corporate strategic relationships,'' Mr. Churchwell said. ''It takes so much money to get a company off the ground, it's unlikely that angels alone will get you there.'' 
 Hosting the iBIO show in 2006 was significant in lifting confidence among Midwestern biotech players, Mr. Churchwell said, and the May gathering will represent a kind of progress report for the community. 
 ''As time goes on, folks are going to prove this is going to work,'' he said. ''You have to convince yourself it can happen, and it does.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dan Benier, left, and Thomas L. Flynn III of Therapeutic Proteins Inc., which is opening a manufacturing plant in Chicago.
 An assistant testing proteins at Therapeutic Proteins. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); CANCER (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (76%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); TRADE SHOWS (60%)

COMPANY: ABBOTT LABORATORIES (84%); FOREST CITY ENTERPRISES INC (53%); BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (57%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (56%)

TICKER: ABT (SWX) (84%); ABT (NYSE) (84%); ABT (LSE) (84%); ABL (FRA) (84%); FCEB (NYSE) (53%); FCEA (NYSE) (53%); BAX (SWX) (52%); BAX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (53%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (53%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (53%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (53%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



377 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 14, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
JAY LENO
 I love this. Radio host Rush Limbaugh says he will leave the United States if health care reform passes. Well, if that doesn't get the Democrats to rally, nothing will. 
 Record ratings for the Oscars last night. Kathryn Bigelow won best director for her film about the Iraq war. But in her speech, she forgot to thank the two people without whom this film could never have been made -- Bush and Cheney.
 Earlier today, the president of Haiti was at the White House to meet with President Obama. He said the people of his country need jobs, they need places to live, and they need health care. And then the president of Haiti spoke.
 DAVID LETTERMAN
 Tomorrow on ''The Early Show,'' host Harry Smith is having a live colonoscopy. I know what you're thinking: Finally, real breakfast fun.
 JIMMY FALLON
 This is cool. President Obama is going to hold a major space conference to unveil an ambitious new plan for NASA. Obama called it ''one small step for man, one giant distraction from health care, two wars, and the recession.''

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS: Tom Toles: Washington Post, Universal Uclick
Tony Auth: Philadelphia Inquirer, Universal Uclick
Dana Summers: Orlando Sentinel, Tribune Media Services
 Dana Summers: Orlando Sentinel, Tribune Media Services 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); IRAQ WAR (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JAY LENO (74%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (73%); DAVID LETTERMAN (59%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) HAITI (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010



378 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: The Verb Treatment for an Investment House

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
COMPUTER users searching online for information say they are ''Googling.'' Commercials running in states like Michigan and Ohio suggest that shoppers go ''Krogering.'' But what will investors make of a campaign that proposes they start ''Vanguarding''?
 The campaign, scheduled to begin this week, turns the Vanguard brand name into a verb, the better to help potential customers remember the company's mutual funds and other investment products.
 ''Reacting to the stock market is just investing,'' a print advertisement asserts. ''Taking stock in the long term is Vanguarding.''
 Banner ads on Web sites will declare, ''Vanguarding is getting the financial picture you want with less distraction.'' To dramatize that, some ads will be virtually blank; the white space is meant to symbolize how Vanguard can reduce the ''distractions'' that confront investors. 
 In short, the campaign seeks ''to verb up'' the Vanguard name, to borrow a phrase from Steve Ballmer, chief executive of Microsoft. He used those words in an interview with The New York Times in discussing the new Microsoft search engine, Bing. Someday, he said, he hoped people would ''Bing'' a restaurant to find its address.
 The campaign is the first work for Vanguard from Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners in New York, part of MDC Partners, which was hired in October to take over the estimated $50 million account. Kirshenbaum Bond and its Media Kitchen unit are handling creative, media, digital, direct response and other duties for Vanguard.
 There is a term in advertising for the kind of mnemonic device that is at the heart of the campaign: ''nameonics,'' which ties a brand name to a product quality or benefit.
 Nameonics was popularized by James J. Jordan Jr. of the New York agency that was known by names including Jordan McGrath Case & Taylor. Examples include ''Zestfully clean,'' for Zest soap; changing the four-note theme of ''Dragnet'' in ads for Tums antacid, to ''Tum-ta-tum-Tums''; and ''Renuzit doozit!'' for Renuzit air freshener.
 Nameonics fell out of favor as simplistic or corny. But it is coming back as marketers seek to connect with consumers worried about the economy by reviving traditional tactics that generate nostalgic feelings, among them jingles, contests and cash giveaways.
 In an article last week for Adage.com, Pete Blackshaw, executive vice president at Nielsen Online Digital Strategic Services, part of the Nielsen Company, advocated an approach he called ''back to boring'' that would be ''nonsexy, foundational, basic as bread and butter.''
 ''We've got too much sizzle in the system right now,'' Mr. Blackshaw wrote, citing trends like social media. ''We're dissing fundamentals.''
 After all, another financial services firm used nameonics back in the day: The longtime slogan for Aetna insurance, courtesy of Jordan McGrath Case & Taylor, was ''Aetna, I'm glad I met ya.''
 And a competitor of Vanguard's, Fidelity Investments, is using a visual mnemonic device, a green line, in a campaign by Arnold Worldwide in Boston, part of Havas, which carries the theme ''Turn here.''
 The concept of Vanguarding is ''a communications mechanism that would be disruptive,'' said Sean Hagerty, principal in retail marketing at the Vanguard Group in Valley Forge, Pa. It aims to gain Vanguard attention at a time when ''there's a lot of folks in our category spending a fair amount of time and energy on advertising,'' among them Charles Schwab and TD Ameritrade, he added.
 ''We don't want to do me-too,'' Mr. Hagerty said, echoing claims often found in ads for mutual funds: '' 'Five-star Morningstar rating,' 'Seventy percent of our funds beat the Lipper average.' Sometimes, it all sounds the same.''
 Previous campaigns from Vanguard were focused on the low fees it charges investors because it is owned by its funds rather than an outside, for-profit company.
 '' 'Our structure lets us offer funds at cost because we're client-owned' is not an easy thing to communicate,'' Mr. Hagerty said. 
 ''Using our name as a verb is a device to create intrigue, create interest in doing some research, some investigation'' of Vanguard, Mr. Hagerty said, and learn ''what makes us different.''
 The genesis of the idea, according to Izzy DeBellis, executive creative director at Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal, was the phrase ''Vanguard your money,'' which ''someone put up on the wall'' during a brainstorming session.
 His reaction was, ''Oooh, I like that,'' he said, because it took advantage of the fact ''that Vanguard has 'guard' in it.''
 Further thought led to the concept of ''creating a platform by making Vanguard a verb,'' Mr. DeBellis said, transforming it into ''a call to action, a philosophy.''
 To ensure that Vanguarding was not perceived as too cute for an investment firm, the campaign was tested with consumers in focus groups, said Barbara Yolles, executive vice president and group managing director at the agency. 
 The participants praised it with comments like ''It feels contemporary'' and ''You get us,'' she said.
 The category is filled with companies ''claiming this territory of 'We care about you,' 'Trust in us,' '' Ms. Yolles said. ''This allows us to differentiate Vanguard.''
 The media choices for the campaign are also meant to help accomplish that. 
 For instance, on Web sites like CNN Money and Yahoo Finance, Vanguard will buy banner ads in the form of ''digital stock-ticker takeovers,'' said Barry Lowenthal, president at Media Kitchen, in which actual share quotes will be followed with headlines like ''If you are reacting to the stock market every minute, you're not Vanguarding'' and ''If you're looking at this, you're not Vanguarding.''
 In addition to the online banner ads and the print ads, which will appear in magazines and newspapers, the campaign includes video clips, search-engine marketing and a presence on the Vanguard Web site (vanguard.com).
 ''There's a significant increase in the commitment to digital'' marketing, Mr. Hagerty said, to ''more than half'' the total compared with previous campaigns that were ''probably more than 30 or 40 percent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Using our name as a verb is a device to create intrigue, create interest in doing some research, some investigation'' of the funds, said Sean Hagerty of the Vanguard Group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (76%); SEARCH ENGINES (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); POLISHES & SANITATION GOODS (71%); RESTAURANTS (65%)

COMPANY: JORDAN MCGRATH CASE & TAYLOR INC (64%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); MDC PARTNERS INC (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); MDZ.A (TSX) (54%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



379 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARCHITECTURE REVIEW JEAN NOUVEL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: At the Corner of Grit and Glamour

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
During the past few years Chelsea became a one-stop-shopping destination for high-style contemporary architecture as well as high-end art, and the results can be depressing. For every significant building that went up, the neighborhood seemed to produce a half-dozen or so inferior knockoffs. The feeling on the streets now is the same as it is in most of the galleries: the sheer amount of work, and the mediocrity of most of it, can make the effort of sorting out the good from the bad too painful to contemplate.
 So Jean Nouvel's new residential tower -- at the western end of 19th Street, unveiled at an event this month -- is a relief of sorts. It is a luxury building, and who would argue that we need more of those? But its mix of grit and glamour -- embodied in a glittering facade that seems to have been wrapped around the curved front of a black brick tower like a tight-fitting sequined dress -- is apt to temper whatever you may feel about the Wall Streeters and art-world insiders who are likely to move into its apartments. It conjures a downtown New York we once loved and can now barely remember, where rundown manufacturing buildings buzzed with cultural vitality. 
 The building's rough-edged sex appeal may actually overshadow what's best about the project, the remarkable skill with which Mr. Nouvel embeds it into its surroundings. Rising on the brief stretch of 11th Avenue that doubles as the West Side Highway, directly across the street from the billowing glass forms of Frank Gehry's IAC building and abutting a somber brick women's prison on the other side, the tower is part of a taut composition of disparate -- even conflicting -- urban realities. Its shifting appearance in the skyline is a sly commentary on the conflict between public and private realms that is an inevitable byproduct of gentrification.
 That process has become particularly savage in New York, a city divided between big development companies that see architectural novelty as a tool for inflating prices for their luxury projects, and local activists who have marginalized themselves by their refusal to accept any kind of change at all. (If the financial collapse has slowed this trend, it has done little to alter the mentalities behind it.)
 Mr. Nouvel did not invent that world, but he knows that his name is used to sell real estate, and he understands that fashionable forms can disguise the damage caused by heedless market forces behind a gloss of radical chic. Like many of his generation -- Mr. Nouvel is 64 -- he retains a stubborn, some might say naive, belief that architecture should make us alert to the conflicts that shape the modern city rather than conceal them.
 That attitude is apparent in the mixed signals the building sends. Seen from across the West Side Highway, the tower's twinkling facade, with its hundreds of irregularly shaped windows tilted at odd angles to reflect fragments of sky or the surrounding city, offers a striking counterpoint to the soft, sail-like curves of Mr. Gehry's creation. Rows of older brick buildings flank them to the north and south, and the contrast between glass and masonry, straight and curved lines, creates a nice rhythm along what was once a bleak strip of decrepit offices and warehouses.
 I prefer the view from the east, however, along West 19th Street. The side of the building is made of matte-black bricks and punctured by a few small sporadic windows, evoking the unadorned backsides of prewar tenements. All you see of the main glass facade is a thin sliver of steel running along its front edge.
 As you approach the corner, the facade's riotous forms suddenly come into view, and it's startling. Close up, the steel frames that support the windows look beefier, and the effect is more frenetic. A second glass-and-steel screen wraps around the building's lower floors. Supported on a heavy concrete base, the frames of this screen interlock at the street corner like interwoven fingers, enclosing a small open-air terrace that will serve a ground-floor restaurant and bar.
 These spaces have no tenants yet, and for now remain hidden behind fencing and construction equipment. Some of the window frames have been left intentionally empty, so that it may take a moment to sort out whether you're indoors or out. A network of heavy steel beams reaching up several stories connects the screen back to the main facade; the beams will eventually support big planters containing trees that will seem to hover in midair. 
 It's a nice surrealistic touch. Yet the punched-out windows and ragged corner also suggest an erosion of the boundary between the public life of the street and the guarded, private realm inside. The future restaurant's terrace is made of the same concrete as the sidewalk, as if to suggest that it really belongs to the city. Glass-enclosed terraces off the lower-floor apartments will push out into the space of the elevated trees, as if the building's residents were reaching out to grab more for themselves.
 These same tensions continue to play out inside. There's a sexiness to the main lobby, with its floors and walls of sleek black granite and painted glass, and its fleeting view of a swimming pool set between the tower and the back of the older brick building behind it.
 Once you get to the apartments, however, that eroticism is mixed with a certain urban toughness. Details are simple and straightforward (despite the Viking stoves). The apartment terraces are reached through pivoting, industrial-scale doors. Mr. Nouvel imagines the terraces filling up with potted plants, bicycles and other odds and ends once the tenants have settled in.
 Conversely, the backs of the apartments have small cut-out windows placed at odd heights -- some at eye level, others up near the ceiling -- that frame contrasting views of the city: the clock on the old Metropolitan Life Tower; a caged recreational area on the roof of the prison; a sooty brick wall covered with pipes, the Empire State Building. The care with which the views are framed -- reinforced by the windows' simple heavy steel borders -- is such that you can almost feel the city tugging at you.
 (The penthouse, not surprisingly, is the least seductive of all the apartments. Vast and airy, it could have been shaped by a real estate agent's checklist. Sweeping river views, marble fireplaces, walk-in closets: these are today's equivalent of gold faucets and sunken tubs.) 
 Some will argue that all of this simply provides a veneer of civility to a culture that is sliding deeper and deeper into narcissism. For me, though, the building is a lesson on how to navigate an enlightened path in an era of extremes. It's not utopia, but it demonstrates what a major talent can accomplish when he focuses his mind on a small corner of the city.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jean Nouvel: This architect's new apartment building is at 100 11th Avenue, at 19th Street, in Chelsea.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
Cut-out windows frame contrasting views of Manhattan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEAN NOUVEL)
 Black brick helps Jean Nouvel's Chelsea tower blend in.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



380 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Schools Brace for Next Cuts Under Christie

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
LINDEN, N.J. -- When classes let out at 3 p.m., 85 children in a state-subsidized program at Linden's School No. 1 head down the hall for three more hours of reading, math games, homework help and stepping lessons.
 But the popular after-school program will end on Friday after losing its state financing halfway through the year, one of the first casualties in Gov. Christopher J. Christie's campaign to close a $2.2 billion budget deficit in the current fiscal year. In February, he cut $560 million in previously approved education spending, including $5 million for after-school programs that serve 12,000 children in 115 schools.
 ''I didn't think they would snatch it away this quickly,'' said Kim Solomon, a single mother whose son, Kyre, 8, has been in Linden's after-school program for two years. ''And I didn't think they would be that harsh on people who are trying to take care of their families in a recession.''
 That was just the opening round. 
 Schools across New Jersey are bracing for what they fear will be more crippling cuts when Mr. Christie unveils his budget proposal for the coming fiscal year on Tuesday. Mr. Christie and his education commissioner, Bret D. Schundler, are expected to cut state aid to individual districts by as much as 15 percent, and reduce overall school aid for only the second time in more than a decade. That would probably mean laying off thousands of teachers, and eliminating a host of extras like after-school and early-childhood education programs that parents have come to count on. 
 Last year, most districts were able to avoid such drastic measures because of a one-time infusion of $1 billion in federal aid to support schools. ''We would have had a hole last year if not for the federal stimulus money,'' said Frank Belluscio, a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association.
 Even before the budget cuts, Mr. Christie, the first Republican to lead the state in eight years, had come under fire from some educators and parents for seeking to limit teacher benefits and pensions, and for referring in a debate to preschool -- a priority of the administration of the previous governor, Jon S. Corzine -- as ''baby-sitting.'' Mr. Schundler has also raised hackles for saying that he favors more school options, like charter schools and the creation of a voucherlike system that would pay for students to go to private and out-of-district schools. 
 The New Jersey Education Association, the state's largest teachers union, campaigned against Mr. Christie during the governor's race, and is now spending more than $300,000 on radio, print and television ads critical of his education cuts. 
 ''New Jersey's public schools may be the one thing that works best in the state,'' said Steve Wollmer, a spokesman for the union. ''We don't understand why the governor's first move would be to cut the public schools.''
 But the education cuts have won support among some residents weary of high property taxes, of which the largest chunk goes to support schools. Jerry Cantrell, president of the New Jersey Taxpayers' Association and a former school board president in Randolph, N.J., said that education spending was out of control because previous governors had sought to avoid hard choices by resorting to what he called ''sleight-of-hand tricks'' like borrowing and moving funds around. 
 ''My take is, he's trying to deal with this,'' Mr. Cantrell said of the governor. ''I think the reality of the situation is, it's such a dire one that there aren't a lot of choices right now. Everyone is going to have to sacrifice to resolve this issue, and to say 'I should not have to sacrifice' is just not reality.''
 Mr. Belluscio of the school boards' association said the expected drop in state aid, coupled with rising costs like health benefits, could lead to widespread teacher layoffs for the first time in more than a decade. In addition, schools may have to pare down course offerings and eliminate extracurricular programs or support them with student fees. 
 He added that Mr. Schundler had told his group that he hoped to change labor laws to give districts more power in negotiating teacher contracts, and by easing regulations over day-to-day operations. For instance, one such regulation calls for districts to maintain a record of every contact between a school lawyer and board member. ''If you relieve districts of these requirements, you lift the burden on staff so they can direct their time and energy to other areas,'' Mr. Belluscio said.
 The Newark Teachers Union, which represents 5,600 teachers and staff in the state's largest school system, said that as many as 1,800 nontenured teachers could lose their jobs this spring, the largest number since at least 1970. Joseph Del Grosso, the president of the union, said the layoffs would lead to larger class sizes, and could affect test scores and graduation rates.
 ''I understand that if there's no money, there's no money, but I think we need to prioritize how we look at education,'' he said. ''In the real world, there are some things you can do more with less, but there are some things you can't, especially in urban areas where children already come to school with socio-economic baggage.''
 The Linden district, with 6,000 students, partnered with Jewish Family Service of Central New Jersey in 2003 to start the after-school program at School No. 1. It has since expanded to two other elementary schools, serving a total of 274 children, most of whom are black or Hispanic. More than half qualify for free or reduced lunch. 
 Families pay $250 annually per child for the program; most of the costs are covered by $259,000 in state financing awarded by New Jersey After 3, a nonprofit group that oversees a network of after-school programs (another $51,500 comes from foundation grants). Mark Valli, the group's president, said that all but 25 of the 115 state-financed after-school programs would close in the next month; generally, only those that can make up the shortfall with district money, corporate grants and donations will stay open. 
 Stan Robinson Jr., a computer marketing assistant who lives in Linden, said he would have to send his daughter, Melanie, 9, to another after-school program that costs more than $1,000 a month. ''Most parents work on budgets, and we have to find a $1,000 month for the next three months,'' he said. ''It's not a good feeling.'' 
 Ms. Solomon, who is already struggling to pay her rent, said she did not know what to do. She has joined other Linden parents in collecting petition signatures to save the after-school program, and worries that other school extras like tutoring and a reading program are about to disappear as well. ''Times are too hard for a lot of people these days, and every little bit helps,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stan Robinson Jr., above, with his daughter, Melanie, 9, at an after-school program in Linden that faces shutdown this week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CHILD CARE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); HOMEWORK (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); TEACHER UNIONS (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%); RICK PERRY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



381 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Improving Rail Service in America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Slug on the Tracks,'' by Christian Wolmar (Op-Ed, March 8):
 Amtrak's Acela may not travel at true high speeds across much of its route, but this is not because of freight trains. Only six or so freight train pairs operate daily on the Northeast Corridor. The reality is that Acela operates in a densely populated part of the East Coast and shares track with huge volumes of commuter trains going in and out of New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore and Washington.
 Couple that with the 68-mile stretch of Acela track that winds along Long Island Sound. It makes for beautiful scenery, but such geography and geometry are not conducive to high speeds. 
 Lastly, large speed-restrictive bridges populate Acela's path, and since federal regulations give boats absolute right-of-way, pleasure boats often give Acela reason to apply the brakes.
 Moving more people and goods by rail is good for America, but a true rail renaissance will happen only when vision aligns with reality.
 Edward R. Hamberger
 President and Chief Executive
 Association of American Railroads
 March 10, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Christian Wolmar argues that Acela should be improved as a showcase for high-speed rail service in the United States. He states that increased funding could be used to straighten out curves in the track to allow for faster speeds.
 ''Straighten out curves'' is a euphemism for purchasing private properties, through eminent domain if necessary, to create a dedicated right-of-way.
 Therefore, Mr. Wolmar's comparison of Acela to the high-speed route from Paris to Lyon, which traverses predominantly agricultural land, oversimplifies the obstacles faced here. We've literally built rail service into a corner by overbuilding suburbia, including in the megalopolis traversed by Acela between Washington and Boston. Track straightening there would require the acquisition and razing of scores of homes and businesses.
 The planning, engineering, funding and building that would be required to straighten tracks within city limits would be even more challenging. 
 The United States needs and deserves high-speed rail, but we must be sober and unequivocal about what it requires. Jonathan Carey
 San Francisco, March 8, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Christian Wolmar seems to think that what holds Amtrak back from being more competitive is that it lacks high-speed connections between major American cities. But speed isn't the problem; Amtrak's prohibitive ticket prices are.
 This week, I priced out what it would cost for me to ride with my son from Boston to New York and back on a coach fare. The total came to $375. By comparison, it would cost only $60 for me and my son to travel via a low-fare bus company. Even flying is competitive with train fares. 
 We should support an economical rail service, not one only for those who can afford it. John Sanbonmatsu
 Worcester, Mass., March 8, 2010
 To the Editor:
 To Christian Wolmar's advocacy of a high-speed rail network, I would add that this winter's pandemic of weather-related flight cancellations, stranding thousands of travelers, speaks compellingly, as a matter of both convenience and necessity, of the need for a high-speed rail system as a feasible travel alternative connecting the nation's population centers. Richard Boyce
 San Francisco, March 8, 2010
 To the Editor:
 I applaud Christian Wolmar for bringing to light the fact that America's Acela trains are not as ''high speed'' as advertised. But I'd like to comment on several of his points.
 First, regarding his grievance that Acela trains do not run frequently: most weekday trains run hourly, more frequently in fact than some of the European lines he boasts of.
 He also states that Acela trains are ''often held up by freight trains and road crossings.'' Amtrak has actually eliminated all grade crossings on the Northeast Corridor aside from a short stretch in Connecticut. And while there are freight trains, the far bigger problem is the profusion of slow commuter trains that clog up the tracks.
 Finally, Mr. Wolmar argues, ''The government must do away with a host of state and federal regulations that reduce train speed and are far too restrictive.'' Acela uses tilting technology that enables trains to retain speed around turns. But if adjacent trains tilt too far, the probability of a dangerous accident increases dramatically. Regulations are in place so that this does not occur. Acela needs to be improved, but nobody should be advocating speed over safety.
 Benjamin Noble
 Providence, R.I., March 8, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SAM FRIEDMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (92%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (91%); TRAINS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); PROPERTY LAW (73%); SUBURBS (70%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (70%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (68%); MARINE VESSELS (68%); EMINENT DOMAIN (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CITIES (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN RAILROADS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (57%); LYON, FRANCE (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



382 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Skype Is Poised for a Big Initial Stock Offering

BYLINE: By ROBERT CYRAN, ROB COX and RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
Skype looks to be Silicon Valley's best hope for a blockbuster initial stock offering in 2010. With Facebook apparently determined to stay private until next year, Skype is in prime position to steal the scene with a quick flip. Moreover, as a result of clarifying copyright issues and rewriting its code to attack the business market, the company may be worth twice the $2.75 billion it was valued at when eBay sold all but 30 percent of its stake in Skype last year.
 Skype, the Web telecommunications provider, already has 500 million users and made $48 million in the third quarter, its last before going private. That's good, but eBay wasn't a natural owner. Its core auction and payments businesses had little to do with managing a communications company. 
And eBay's poisoned relationship with the founders, Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis, also hurt. Because those two threatened to withdraw Skype's license to use the underlying source code, and shut the service, eBay was reluctant to extensively upgrade Skype's software. Skype's new owner, a private equity consortium led by Silver Lake, has patched things up, bringing back Mr. Zennstrom and Mr. Friis -- and the company's source code -- with a slice of equity.
 The company can now improve voice and video quality on calls by revamping the software. Furthermore, many companies are reluctant to use Skype because it pierces firewalls that protect technology systems from outside intruders. Updated software should give Skype a chance to tap the larger and more profitable enterprise market.
 EBay sold the business for 3.5 times its estimated 2010 sales. That's low for an Internet company whose brand is becoming entrenched, where revenue is growing a third annually and where operating margins are increasing. Eliminating the possibility that the business would be shut down and retooling its software for new markets make Skype more valuable.
 Google, for example, trades at more than six times revenue. Put Skype on a similar multiple, and it would be worth more than twice the purchase value based on estimated 2011 revenue of $1 billion. This sort of return should be sufficient incentive for Skype's owners to start the countdown toward the Valley's next hot initial stock offering.
 Lehman Vindication
 The Lehman Brothers bankruptcy examiner must be popular at the hedge fund Greenlight Capital. David Einhorn, the fund's founder, had criticized the Wall Street firm's finances and accounting before it failed in September 2008.
 At the time, he was attacked for making the call. Now, the examiner's report further vindicates Lehman critics like Mr. Einhorn. It's a reminder to those who support squashing short-selling that they risk removing important views from the market.
 Investors initially kept faith with Lehman after Bear Stearns collapsed into the arms of JPMorgan in March 2008. But Mr. Einhorn didn't. He went on to have a public spat with Lehman's finance chief at the time, Erin Callan.
 Lehman waged a campaign to convince market participants that all was well. According to the examiner's report, which was released Thursday, this went as far as misleading investors, including using an accounting trick, known as Repo 105, to artificially reduce its reported leverage.
 The litany of problems unearthed by the examiner underscores how on the money Mr. Einhorn's thesis was and why he was right to make it public. Moreover, there's an absence of hard evidence that short-selling more broadly hurts otherwise healthy companies.
 Yet regulators often come under pressure to ban or restrict the practice, whether through traditional short sales of stock or in the credit-default swap market where a similar economic effect can be achieved.
 Having joined other regulators around the world in temporarily banning short-selling of certain stocks during the crisis, the Securities and Exchange Commission last month introduced new restrictions, admittedly relatively mild, on short sales of stock. Vikram S. Pandit, the Citigroup chief executive, also threw some mud the way of short-sellers in testimony to the Congressional Oversight Panel recently.
 The energies of Mr. Pandit and other bank bosses might be better directed at making certain investors get a clear picture of their firms' finances -- something that the examiner's report demonstrates Lehman failed to do. After all, executives can't always pass the buck on questionable accounting practices. Andrew S. Fastow, Enron's former chief financial officer, found that out. As Mr. Einhorn said in 2008: ''I wonder how Andy Fastow feels sitting in prison and looking at Lehman's accounting.''
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital had long been a critic of Lehman Brothers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); GOING PRIVATE (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); COPYRIGHT (57%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (55%)

COMPANY: EBAY INC (95%); SKYPE SARL (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (63%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (50%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (95%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); JPM (NYSE) (50%); JPM (LSE) (50%); 8634 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (95%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (95%); NAICS517919 ALL OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



383 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Maastricht Treasure Hunt Lures Collectors

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

DATELINE: MAASTRICHT, the Netherlands 

 BODY:
This small Dutch city may be known for its winding cobblestone streets, quaint town square and a church dating as far back as the sixth century, but it is also home to a cavernous convention center where, every March, about 70,000 art lovers flock for the European Fine Art Fair. A supersize event in many ways, this year's edition has been notable for a few standout sales amid the absence of big-ticket items. 
 The fair is larger than ever: 263 exhibitors (24 more than last year) from 17 countries showing nearly $3 billion worth of art in every collecting category from ancient times to the 21st century. While there are examples of brand names -- drawings by Rubens and Tiepolo; paintings by Gauguin, Giacometti and Picasso; even one of Damien Hirst's dead animals -- that is only part of what draws crowds. It is that sense of discovery that keeps crowds returning: a 1796 portrait of Countess Tolstoy, the writer's grandmother, by Elisabeth Louise Vigee Le Brun hanging in a closet at Robilant & Voena, dealers from London and Milan (price: about $4 million), or a Samuel Palmer landscape secreted in a small nook in the stand of the London dealer Lowell Libson. 
 On Thursday, two hours after the opening festivities began, there were seven minutes of drama. The caterers turned on their ovens and caused an electrical overload, plunging a portion of the convention center into darkness. Nobody panicked, and, fair officials said, nothing was stolen. ''I saw a man who calmly got out his flashlight and continued shopping,'' said Malcolm Rogers, director of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, who was making his annual pilgrimage here along with a group of trustees. 
 People watching is part of the fun. Although the fair runs through next Sunday, during the first few days scores of museum directors and curators cruised booths. Some high-profile collectors were here too, among them: A. Alfred Taubman, the former chairman of Sotheby's, with his wife, Judy; and the Metropolitan Museum of Art trustees Leon D. Black, the financier, and Mark Fisch, a real estate developer.
 ''There are no blockbusters, no $30 million Rembrandts of years past, but is that what these fairs are all about?'' Mr. Fisch asked. ''Is it really relevant to anyone's collecting experience? There are so many wonderful things to see.'' 
 Big-ticket paintings were noticeably absent this year, dealers said, because inventories are low. When the economy took a nose dive two years ago, most galleries suffered and, being cash-strapped, were not able to replenish their stock. As soon as things started to pick up, dealers found that the best works tended to be too expensive to buy for resale. 
 But there are still plenty of unusual things to see here, including objects making a public appearance for the first time in centuries. 
 Daniel Katz, a London dealer, for example, filled a wall of his booth with 30 intricately carved plaster statuettes (1831-44) whimsically depicting musicians and other famous personalities in the arts. Made by Jean-Pierre Dantan (or Dantan the Younger), a French sculptor who was known for his amusing caricatures, he captured the likenesses of Paganini and Berlioz, Strauss and Liszt. ''It's a Who's Who in the world of Paris in the 1830s,'' Mr. Katz said. Despite the $1 million asking price, the suite of statuettes sold to an unidentified American collector in the first 24 hours of the fair's opening. 
 Word of the most alluring works spread quickly. Crowds could be seen gasping when pearls began to drop from the mouths of dragons surrounding a fantastical neoclassical clock once belonging to Prince Charles Alexander, governor general of the Austrian Netherlands (now Belgium), for sale at Pelham, the London gallery. Alan Rubin, Pelham's founder, said the $2.5 million gilt metal, bronze and silver clock had not been displayed in public in 100 years. 
 The section devoted to modern and contemporary art keeps changing. Last year a number of heavy hitters like Acquavella Galleries of New York and Leslie Waddington of London dropped out. Collectors could be heard grumbling that the offerings were not as strong as they have been, but there were some new dealers, like L&M Arts of New York, which was offering a Giacometti painting. 
 Although it has been just over a month ago since ''Walking Man I,'' Giacometti's six-foot-tall sculpture of a pencil-thin figure, became the world's most expensive work ever sold at auction (fetching $104.3 million at Sotheby's in London), prices for his works are already escalating. L&M Arts bought its Giacometti, ''Portrait of Maurice Lefebvre-Foinet'' (1964-65), depicting the noted Parisian art supply shop owner, at Christie's in Paris in December for $3.3 million. After cleaning, it was being offered at around $6 million. 
 Landau Fine Art from Montreal was showing ''Three Walking Men,'' a sculpture that Giacometti conceived in 1948. The gallery bought it at Christie's in New York two years ago for $11.5 million. Landau had it at the fair last year priced at $19 million; this year it was $25 million. ''Everyone expected us to raise the price,'' said Alice Landau, who runs the gallery with her husband, Robert. ''The market has changed.'' 
 It wouldn't be an art fair without at least one work by Mr. Hirst. Haunch of Venison, a London gallery owned by Christie's, was featuring ''This Little Piggy Went to Market, This Little Piggy Stayed at Home'' his 1996 installation of a pig sliced from nose to tail and submerged in formaldehyde. The work caused a commotion when it first appeared in ''Sensation: Young British Artists From the Saatchi Collection'' at the Royal Academy of Arts in London in 1997. With a price tag of about $12 million, the pig had not sold as of Sunday morning, officials at the gallery said. 
 But red dots could be spotted around a new works-on-paper section. Because the interest in drawings, prints and photographs has been steadily building in recent years, the organizers added a special second-floor space devoted exclusively to this section of the market. There was a booth of Irving Penn portraits at Hamiltons, a London photography gallery. There were also master drawings from all periods, including a 1788 Gainsborough drawing, ''Figures in a Wooded Landscape,'' that Lowell Libson was offering for about $412,000. The seemingly quick black chalk strokes appear almost contemporary in their execution. 
 As of Sunday afternoon Mr. Libson had not sold the drawing although he said he has had serious interest from an American museum and several collectors. Still, as a first-time exhibitor, he seemed unfazed. ''This fair gives me a new opportunity,'' Mr. Libson explained. ''It's a place to present British works in a broader European context.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gainsborough's ''Figures in a Wooded Landscape,'' top, and, from Daniel Katz, plaster statuettes by Jean-Pierre Dantan of Paganini, left, and Liszt.(PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF LOWELL LIBSON)
 Giacometti's ''Three Walking Men,'' for sale for $25 million.(PHOTOGRAPH COURTESY OF LANDAU FINE ART)(C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); ART COLLECTING (77%); ART DEALERS (74%)

PERSON: A ALFRED TAUBMAN (50%); LEON BLACK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



384 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Metal Variety: Death, Doom, Black and Cars

BYLINE: By BEN RATLIFF

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio 

 BODY:
Yob, the three-man doom-metal band from Eugene, Ore., played a show here at Skully's on Saturday night that left you wondering when you'd heard something as good, and when you might again. It was all graceful molasses cohesion, moving in focused minor-key riffs and strong processional grooves from the bassist Aaron Reiseberg and the drummer Travis Foster, lighted up by Mike Scheidt's fat, fuzzed guitar tone. His solos were creeping abstraction with a plan, an almost visual display of cathedral-echo notes, bending and decaying and transforming.
 The band envelops you without hard sell, in big and small ways. The biggest is that Yob just doesn't get out much anymore. ''We don't make enough money on tour,'' Mr. Scheidt said on Sunday. ''I've got 14-year-old twins and an 11-year-old boy, and doom metal don't pay the bills.'' (Yob hasn't come to New York since 2005, when it played the Brooklyn club Rothko.) 
 About an hour into the set -- toward the end of the long song ''The Great Cessation,'' when you could sense a very controlled band starting to improvise with form -- Mr. Scheidt swerved away from his riffs and color-field blobs and started playing creditable Hendrix-like shredding. There were about 90 seconds of that, and then, poof, it went away. Yob ended the set with ''Catharsis,'' but only its last fifth: the song is 25 minutes long.
 Yob might be one of the best bands in North America, though I wouldn't have been sure of that without coming here to Scion Rock Fest this year and hearing it properly, in a festival with midsize clubs and good sound, surrounded by people who didn't have to pay admission and bands who'd been flown in, put up in hotels, fed and allowed to play sets of at least an hour. None of that is common for metal festivals. Underwritten by a car company -- Scion is a Toyota brand -- the festival offered free admission in four clubs on a stretch of North High Street, with staggered set times. The satanic bargain was that the metal fans were offered rivers of rather handsome Scion bags and T-shirts, which of course they took with them on their endless back and forth between Ohio State University and the Short North neighborhood. 
 Speaking of envelopment without hard sell: This is a car company sponsoring a fairly extreme-metal festival. Why? What's Scion's gain? The company wouldn't grant interviews on this subject; it sent word through an intermediary -- the festival's booker, Adam Shore -- that the company ''wanted the music to speak for itself.''
 That's impressive, in a way, but the subtext of that reticence is that Scion Rock Fest is a tastemaking festival, and tastemakers are sensitive to corporate encroachment. It's on a small scale. It's in Ohio, central to Midwestern metal fans if not much of a pull for the news media. (At least for now it's in Ohio; last year the festival had its debut in Atlanta.) But it is careful, and comfortable, and impressive.
 This isn't a festival of a single category, like the defunct doom-metal marathon Emissions From the Monolith, which used to run annually in Youngstown, Ohio, and has been replaced, sort of, by Born to Be Doomed, which will cast its giant frown July 2 and 3 in Baltimore. (See you there.) It's closer in scope to Maryland Deathfest, which has run in Baltimore since 2003. Deathfest, with 61 bands across 3 days, is much bigger than Scion. But Scion, with 24 bands in one evening, is probably broader, combining the experimental corners of five metal subgenres -- death metal, black metal, doom metal, thrash metal and grindcore -- with its pioneers and marquee heroes. 
 The festival is not scores of bands with drippy-lettering logos huddled in one place. It's manageable -- 3,500 people or so circulating the clubs -- and balances historical context, with extreme metal's heritage bands (D.R.I., Voivod) and the beneficiaries of recent blog excitement (Landmine Marathon, Liturgy, Black Tusk). It's organized with the help of Vice, the alternative-culture media conglomerate, which fielded requests for free tickets online, then sent them to independent record stores across the Midwest. (Scion has also worked with Vice over the last three years in booking and promoting dubstep and garage-rock shows around the country.)
 If we're reading the signs correctly, the festival is subtly attempting to integrate metal into a self-conscious indie culture. It's a transition of slow degrees: a segment of the metal audience resists being co-opted. ''Hipster metal'' is currently a term of abuse. That this is being done with Toyota's sponsorship seems paradoxical, but life is complex. 
 The young grindcore band Landmine Marathon of Phoenix opened the shows at 5 p.m. at Newport Music Hall, the festival's biggest space. That seemed hard on Grace Perry, the band's singer. She has become known over the last few years for transformative performances: a sensible neighborhood baby sitter growing feral before your eyes. The early hour and the metal barrier in front of the stage prevented this from happening, but the gig had a straitjacketed tension: Ms. Perry twisted her hair, shook with rage and summoned her weirdly deep roar. 
 Later in the same room came Cannibal Corpse, a death-metal band with a 22-year following. On anecdotal evidence, it sold more T-shirts than any other band on Saturday night. Its singer, George Fisher, might have the best-developed neck in all of metal, which he shows off by windmilling his long hair through every song. It's a band that's candidly and almost sweetly fascinated with gore.
 ''You like zombies?'' he asked between songs. ''We love zombies. They're the coolest monsters.'' And then in a lumbering bark, he sang ''Shatter Their Bones'': ''Putrid foul zombies make their ghastly approach/A dreadful horrid feeling sets in.''
 What a generation ago would be called hardcore punk is now routinely a part of metal festivals, slotted in as grindcore. Magrudergrind, a trio from Washington, brought a fantastic standard of it: speeding, screaming bullets of songs, squalid and economical two-beat frenzies with quick turns and no bass player. (They don't need one.) This was at Circus, a smaller club. But over in the smallest of the four -- the tiny, dingy basement club Bernie's Distillery -- the Texas black-metal band Absu was going at it with dark eye makeup, horror-house gothic vocals and no letup in its music's clattery, narrow, obsessive drive. Metal is deep and wide. Between this and Yob lay two miles of college-town strip and an aesthetic galaxy.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 23, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A music column on March 15 about the Scion Rock Fest in Columbus, Ohio, where the Oregon-based band Yob played, misidentified the site of the club Rothko, where Yob played when it last came to New York, in 2005. The club, now closed, was on the Lower East Side, not in Brooklyn.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mike Scheidt of Yob performing at the Scion Rock Fest in Columbus, Ohio.(C1)
 Matt Martinez, left, and the vocalist Grace Perry of Landmine Marathon, one of the 24 metal bands at the Scion Rock Fest.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL HOUGHTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); FESTIVALS (88%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUGENE, OR, USA (90%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



385 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Make the Bracket Big Enough For Everyone to Have a Shot

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Floyd Kerr was halfway back from his trip to Winston-Salem, N.C., on Sunday, on schedule to reach Baltimore just in time for the Selection Sunday broadcast.
 Kerr is the athletic director at Morgan State University. On Saturday he watched the Bears earn an automatic berth to the N.C.A.A. tournament by defeating South Carolina State in the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference tournament championship game. For those of us who attended Morgan, the revitalization of the basketball program has been astounding.
 Last season the Bears, coached by Todd Bozeman, earned their first men's Division I N.C.A.A. bid. Morgan, seeded 15th, was pitted against Oklahoma. The Bears lost, 82-54. 
 On Sunday, Kerr learned that Morgan (27-9) would be seeded 15th again and matched against West Virginia (27-6). ''We knew we were going to play a powerhouse team, that's real,'' Kerr said in a telephone interview. ''But our approach is that we want to maximize the benefits to Morgan State out of this process. We want to go up against the giants, yes. But we don't want to focus on that.''
 Programs like Morgan's, with limited budgets, make the strongest argument for why the N.C.A.A. field should be expanded to 96 teams from 65.
 There are 343 Division I teams eligible for the tournament. Only 65, or roughly 19 percent, participate in it. Of those, only 20 teams -- and that's a stretch -- have a realistic chance of winning the national championship. 
 But just as N.C.A.A. member institutions have different educational missions, each has a different agenda when it comes to reaching the tournament. For most programs, that agenda does not include a national title.
 For coaches, players, their parents and alumni, the journey is everything. There are no expectations of marching through the tournament like Pompey and snatching the trophy.
 ''We want to focus on how we can maximize the opportunity for Morgan State and promote the institution,'' Kerr said.
 The prize is competing, giving as many student-athletes as possible a championship experience. This is the same rationale university presidents use to justify maintaining the bowl system in college football. As the University of Miami's president, Donna Shalala, is found of saying about the bowls: ''There are a lot of winners. I'm in favor of lots of winners.''
 So let's open up the N.C.A.A. tournament to 31 more teams. 
 This is as much about promoting social justice as expanding a tournament. In an era when being on the right side of history means promoting inclusion, the N.C.A.A. would be right to expand the invitation list. Why not?
 There are also economic realities.
 Morgan received about $291,000 from its N.C.A.A. appearance last year and will receive a similar amount this year. The MEAC also sent Morgan a check, a share of the money the conference received for sending a team to the tournament. The more teams a conference sends, the more money it receives, the more it can share with members. 
 As the debate on expansion heats up, the determining factors will be greed and power. What else is new?
 Power conferences -- the Atlantic Coast, the Big East, the Big 12, the Pacific-10, the Big Ten and the Southeastern -- have a vested interest in maintaining the current system. If the economic pie grows, these conferences want larger slices. ''There's no guarantee that the second-best team in our league, if they don't get the automatic qualifier, is going to be considered for one of those other berths,'' said Alfreda Goff, the senior associate commissioner for the Horizon League.
 Goff, speaking by phone, said she was not a fan of expansion even though her conference could benefit. 
 ''The tournament the way it is is good,'' she said. ''Every institution has an opportunity to get into the N.C.A.A. tournament via the first stage of the tournament. I'm always open for additional opportunities for people. But before we just say we need to expand, we need to look at what the expansion would do.''
 A lot.
 Expansion could stop the degrading practice of ''buy games,'' where small programs accept financial guarantees -- crush money -- from powerful programs in exchange for being slaughtered. These games pad the big programs' victory totals and give small programs cash. But they also pull down the Ratings Percentage Index of the small programs' conferences. 
 With expansion to 96 teams, larger programs, with a tournament berth much more likely, would have less of a need to pad their records. Programs from weaker conferences could schedule more competitive games.
 One of the most endearing aspects of the N.C.A.A. tournament is the first week's upsets. That would not change with expansion; there would be more opportunities and more upsets.
 We can always find reasons to restrict, to deny, to keep out and to limit access. Let's not put a Do Not Enter sign on college basketball.
 Open up the tournament. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Morgan State won the MEAC title for the second straight year. Its reward was a first-round game against West Virginia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK HAVNER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ATHLETES (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); BASKETBALL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (95%); SOUTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



386 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Deal for South American Oil Fields Extends China's Global Quest for Energy

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Cnooc, China's top offshore oil explorer, said on Sunday that it had secured a South American beachhead by agreeing to pay $3.1 billion in cash for a stake in one of the largest Argentine oil explorers, with fields in Argentina, Bolivia and Chile.
 The acquisition is the Chinese oil industry's latest move to expand its reach around the world. Starting at the beginning of the decade, companies like PetroChina, Sinopec and Cnooc began buying assets across Africa, Asia and the Middle East to drive the country's booming economy. More recently, they have struck deals to develop Iraq's huge reserves and Canada's oil sands. 
 Cnooc, a unit of the China National Offshore Oil Corporation, said it would form a joint venture with the Argentine oil explorer, Bridas Energy, by acquiring a 50 percent share in one of the company's subsidiaries, the Bridas Corporation. 
 The Bridas unit has proven reserves of 636 million barrels of oil, and daily production of 92,000 barrels a day. It owns 40 percent of Pan American Energy, the Argentine oil producer, with BP owning the rest. 
 In 2005, Cnooc lost a bruising battle to Chevron in the United States for control of Unocal, after a fierce political reaction to the prospect of a Chinese company snapping up an American company. Since then, Cnooc has looked for strategic assets abroad, rather than entire companies. 
 In December, it acquired a small stake in four oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico from Statoil of Norway. The company is also reportedly close to buying a stake in the Ugandan operations of Tullow Oil, an small British oil explorer, along with Total of France. 
 ''This joint venture is aligned with our philosophy of seeking partnerships to expand our global footprints,'' Cnooc's chairman and chief executive, Fu Chengyu, said in a statement in Hong Kong.
 The deal is Cnooc's first foray in South America. It requires the approval of the Chinese government and is expected to close by the end of June.
 While oil demand has been shrinking in developed nations because of the global economic slowdown and efforts to conserve energy, Chinese consumption is surging. In its latest report, the International Energy Agency said on Friday that China's oil demand jumped by ''an astonishing'' 28 percent in January. 
 As recently as the 1990s, China was still a net exporter of oil. But the nation's rapid economic expansion has reversed the trend. China's aging oil fields have been unable to meet its fast-growing energy needs, feed its manufacturing sector and satisfy a rising class of automobile drivers in Chinese cities. As a result, the Chinese government has encouraged its national companies to expand abroad and secure oil supplies. 
 China is the world's fastest-growing energy market, and already is the second largest after the United States. It produced 3.8 million barrels a day of oil last year, while consumption reached 8.5 million barrels a day, up from about 4.8 million in 2000. 
 Chinese oil demand this year is expected to jump by 6 percent, or 500,000 barrels a day, a third of the total growth expected around the world.
 China's international drive to secure raw materials and commodities has led to a flurry of deals. 
 Last summer, Sinopec, the country's largest refiner, bought Addax Petroleum, an oil explorer based in Geneva that is active in Nigeria, Gabon and the Kurdistan region of Iraq. The deal was the largest successful foreign acquisition of oil and gas assets by a Chinese company.
 In December, PetroChina gained the backing of the Canadian government to buy a stake in two Alberta oil-sands projects for about $1.9 billion. Chinese companies have also been successful in Iraq, where they outmaneuvered international oil companies for access to the country's giant oil fields.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cnooc's chief executive, Fu Chengyu, said the company's deal with Bridas of Argentina was ''to expand our global footprints.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIN CHEUNG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (91%); OIL EXPLORATION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); OIL SANDS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); JOINT VENTURES (74%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); APPROVALS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TRENDS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (92%); BRIDAS CORP (69%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); PETROCHINA CO LTD (58%); CHINA PETROLEUM & CHEMICAL CORP (58%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); PTR (NYSE) (58%); K3OD (SGX) (58%); 0857 (HKSE) (58%); SNP (NYSE) (58%); SNP (LSE) (58%); 0386 (HKSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (92%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (69%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) CHINA (97%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (93%); BOLIVIA (92%); CHILE (92%); UGANDA (79%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); HONG KONG (79%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



387 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: City's Public Housing Agency Gets $305 Million in Aid

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
The city's largest landlord has secured desperately needed financing that could help steer it out of the red. 
 Under a labyrinthine deal that federal and state lawmakers and city officials raced to complete in less than six months, the landlord, the New York City Housing Authority, will receive about $230 million for rehabilitating 21 developments that have received no subsidies for the past seven years. The money will come from federal stimulus money and public and private sources, and another $75 million from the federal government for the buildings' annual operating costs. 
 The 21 developments were built by the city or state and, unlike the city's 313 other public housing complexes, received no federal financing. In 1998, the state cut off its share of financing for the developments, and in 2003, the city followed suit. To compensate, the public housing authority diverted some money from its federally supported buildings to cover operating and capital costs at the 21 unaided sites, about $1 billion since 1998. This accounted for two-thirds of the agency's current deficit of about $150 million, officials said. 
 Part of the federal financing was obtained though an obscure provision in Congress's economic stimulus package. It enabled the agency to bring the 21 developments onto its federally financed roster, or ''federalize'' them, though a ''mixed finance modernization plan.'' 
 The upshot is that the complexes will be sold to a limited partnership of the housing authority and Citigroup's community development arm. The authority will continue to manage the developments and own the land they sit on, and part of the money they receive will come through the New York City Housing Development Corporation's sale of bonds. 
 The housing authority said the mixed public and private partnership was the only way to obtain the financing. The ownership transfer, which was closing this past weekend, would not affect the public housing status of the complexes, officials said, or make them vulnerable to privatization. 
 ''People were worried at first that existing residents would be displaced, or that rents would be jacked up to some form of market rate housing,'' said John B. Rhea, chairman of the authority. ''That won't happen. Per the partnership agreement, it ensures they remain low-income housing in the future.'' 
 The bank will not receive any profits from rents, but through the partnership can earn tax benefits and credits under the Community Reinvestment Act, which requires lenders to support low-income neighborhoods.
 Rehabilitation at the 21 developments would include repairing roofs, brickwork and elevators, creating jobs for public housing tenants, he said. 
 Lawmakers and politicians heralded the plan, some more cautiously than others. Mr. Rhea described its realization as ''a home run.'' Shaun Donovan, secretary of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, which oversees and finances the authority, said it was ''the most significant effort to preserve public housing in New York City history.''
 It required close collaboration between city agencies, state lawmakers, who passed legislation enabling the authority to sell the developments to the new partnership, and the work of United States Senator Charles E. Schumer and Congresswoman Nydia M. Velazquez. 
 Senator Schumer, who led the effort to get money for the 21 complexes' operating costs into the federal budget, said the plan ''pulled these abandoned Nycha complexes back from the brink.'' 
 But City Councilwoman Rosie Mendez, chairwoman of the Council's Subcommittee on Public Housing, voiced concerns that a loophole might exist to pave the way for deregulation or privatization of the developments at some future date. The new ownership marks the first time in the authority's history that some of its public housing buildings will be partly owned by a private bank. 
 ''Talk to me in 30 years,'' she said. If the 21 developments were still public housing, she said, ''I'll say I'm glad I was proven wrong.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (91%); PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); JOB CREATION (71%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); CREDIT REGULATION (60%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



388 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Investors Who Foresaw, and Jumped On, the Meltdown

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
THE BIG SHORT 
 Inside the Doomsday Machine 
 By Michael Lewis 
 266 pages. W. W. Norton & Company. $27.95. 
 The global financial crisis of 2008, which economists estimate could result in several trillion dollars of losses and which has already cost American taxpayers billions of dollars in government bailouts, was triggered not by war or recession but by a crazy, man-made money machine, built on flawed mathematical models that most financial executives did not really understand themselves. Greedy and heedless, Wall Street firms had been turning subprime mortgages -- loans made to people with low creditworthiness or little documentation -- into exotic, toxic financial products that they made a fortune laundering and reselling, and they were enabled in doing so by the very ratings agencies that were supposed to police risk. The insanity of this growing and highly leveraged trade in mortgage derivatives continued even as the quality of the underlying loans grew increasingly dubious, even as it became increasingly likely that the American housing bubble was going to pop. 
 The clear and present danger posed by this deranged edifice built on the unstable foundation of subprime mortgages was not foreseen by the chief executives of America's premier banks. It was not foreseen by government regulators, by Treasury officials or by the Fed. It was foreseen, however, by a handful of investors, who were aghast at the madness they saw on the Street and who used their prescience to make a fortune off the financial system's calamitous meltdown. Some of their stories are told by Michael Lewis in ''The Big Short.''
 No one writes with more narrative panache about money and finance than Mr. Lewis, the author of ''Liar's Poker,'' that now classic portrait of 1980s Wall Street. His entertaining new book does not attempt a macro view of the financial crisis, but instead proposes to open a small window on the calamities by recounting the stories of some savvy renegades who cashed in on their conviction that the system was rotten. In doing so Mr. Lewis faces the same problem that the Wall Street Journal reporter Gregory Zuckerman faced in ''The Greatest Trade Ever,'' his recent book about John Paulson, a hedge fund manager who made $15 billion in 2007 by shorting the housing bubble -- the problem, namely, that the reader is put in the position of rooting for people who, while smarter or more farsighted than those who helped bring about catastrophe in the first place, were nonetheless trying to make money (who saw a rare opportunity, as one put it) by betting against the health of our financial system. 
 Still, Mr. Lewis does a nimble job of using his subjects' stories to explicate the greed, idiocies and hypocrisies of a system notably lacking in grown-up supervision, a system filled with firms that ''disdained the need for government regulation in good times'' but ''insisted on being rescued by government in bad times.'' 
 Mr. Lewis argues that the roots of the meltdown of 2008 can be found in the 1980s of ''Liar's Poker,'' when complex financial products like mortgage derivatives were developed. He also suggests that these financial instruments (which had names like ''the synthetic subprime mortgage bond-backed C.D.O., or collateralized debt obligation'') grew increasingly opaque and complex to help obscure the fact that they were built around increasingly suspect loans: ''low-doc or no-doc loans'' requiring little documentation, adjustable-rate mortgages that ballooned after two years, ''interest-only negative-amortizing adjustable-rate subprime'' mortgages, and mortgages given to migrant workers and poor immigrants with little or no English. 
 As Mr. Lewis describes it, Wall Street firms were able ''to hide the risk by complicating it'' and by getting the rating agencies -- notably, Moody's and Standard & Poor's -- to give triple-A ratings to bonds that were far lower in quality. Why, he asks, ''were Moody's and Standard & Poor's willing to bless 80 percent of a pool of dicey mortgage loans with the same triple-A rating they bestowed on the debts of the U.S. Treasury?'' Because, he suggests, Wall Street firms knew how to game the system; they knew how to get the rating agencies (which were eager to collect big fees for their services) to ineptly rate dangerous bonds. Most evaluation models, he observes, were based on rising house prices and used ''the foreshortened, statistically meaningless past to predict the future''; this was how ''the entire food chain of intermediaries in the subprime mortgage machine'' was able to dupe itself. 
 Writing in faintly Tom Wolfe-ian prose, Mr. Lewis does a colorful job of introducing the lay reader to the Darwinian world of the bond market: ''An investor who went from the stock market to the bond market,'' he writes, ''was like a small, furry creature raised on an island without predators removed to a pit full of pythons.'' He draws equally lively portraits of the central characters in his story. All, he notes, were oddballs or outsiders -- people impervious to groupthink and conventional wisdom, and each of them, he says, ''told you something about the state of the financial system, in the same way that people who survive a plane crash told you something about the accident, and also about the nature of people who survive accidents.''
 To begin with, there's Steve Eisman, who had started out ''a strident Republican'' and was on his way ''to becoming the financial market's first socialist'' as he grew increasingly convinced that ''an entire industry, called consumer finance,'' basically ''existed to rip people off.'' Mr. Eisman and his team ''had a from-the-ground-up understanding of both the U.S. housing market and Wall Street,'' Mr. Lewis writes, and by performing the sort of nitty-gritty credit analysis on mortgages (that should have been done before the loans were made in the first place), they realized that they could make a fortune by shorting the worst of the worst.
 Then there is Michael Burry, a doctor with Asperger's syndrome, who'd become obsessed with investing and started a fund with money from a small settlement his family received when his father died after a medical misdiagnosis. Dr. Burry immersed himself in studying the bond market in 2004 and became convinced that lending standards had declined so alarmingly that he could make money by shorting subprime mortgage bonds; by the end of 2007, Mr. Lewis reports, ''he would have realized profits of more than $720 million'' for his fund.
 Finally, there is the ''garage band hedge fund'' started by Jamie Mai and Charlie Ledley in 2003 with a Schwab account containing $110,000 and housed in a shed in the back of a friend's house in Berkeley, Calif. Mr. Ledley believed, Mr. Lewis writes, ''that the best way to make money on Wall Street was to seek out whatever it was that Wall Street believed was least likely to happen, and bet on its happening.'' In this case, his contrarian instincts told him, in Mr. Lewis's words, that ''the markets were predisposed to underestimating the likelihood of dramatic change.'' 
 Four and a half years later the American economy was in trouble, and, Mr. Lewis says, the fund run by Mr. Ledley, Mr. Mai and their partner, Ben Hockett, would net more than $80 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(C1)
 Michael Lewis (PHOTOGRAPH BY TABITHA SOREN)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WRITERS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (67%); MODELING & SIMULATION (56%); MATHEMATICS (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Big Short, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



389 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Premier Defends Currency and Trade Policy

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Li Bibo contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Prime Minister Wen Jiabao sharply defended China's currency and trade policies on Sunday against what he called foreign ''finger pointing,'' charging instead that developed countries seek to force unfair changes in those policies ''just for the purposes of increasing their own exports.''
 Mr. Wen's remarks, which echoed a rebuke on Thursday by one of China's central bankers, were perhaps the sharpest yet in a brewing disagreement between the Chinese and American governments over their economic positions. 
 In a news conference that lasted more than two hours at the close of China's annual legislative session, Mr. Wen repeated that China would keep its currency, the renminbi, ''basically stable'' despite calls by the United States and other developed nations to let its value increase. 
 He also repeated the concerns he voiced a year ago, at China's past legislative session, that the United States was failing to rebuild its own economy and maintain the value of the dollar, which has fluctuated since the global economic crisis began in late 2008. Protecting the dollar is a matter of ''national credibility,'' Mr. Wen said.
 ''Any fluctuation in the value of the U.S. currency is a big concern for us,'' he said. ''I hope the United States will take concrete steps to reassure investors. It is not only in the interests of the investors but also the United States itself.''
 Chinese leaders fear that the vast budget deficits in the United States will lead to inflation that effectively devalues the dollar, and thus the value of China's vast foreign-currency reserves. Those reserves exceeded $2.4 trillion at the end of 2009, nearly $900 billion of that in dollar-denominated Treasury securities. 
 Mr. Wen's most pointed remarks, however, were aimed at critics of China's economic policies, led by the United States. Those critics accuse China of keeping the value of its currency artificially low, so that its exports will remain cheap compared with other nations' products. That bolsters China's economy, but at the expense of other trading partners, they say.
 China has pegged the renminbi to the dollar. Were it to let the market judge the renminbi's value, critics say, the currency -- and the cost of Chinese products -- would rise.
 In Sunday's news conference, Mr. Wen bluntly rejected that view. Instead, in remarks that seemed aimed at the United States, he accused unnamed competitors of trying to bail out their own slumping economies by hamstringing China.
 ''I understand some economies want to increase their exports,'' he said, ''but what I don't understand is the practice of depreciating one's own currency and attempting to force other countries to appreciate their own currencies, just for the purpose of increasing their own exports.''
 That amounts to trade protectionism, he said, and ''all countries should be fully alarmed by such developments.''
 Some economic analysts were struck by the comments. 
 ''I think it's my first time hearing government officials saying that,'' Shen Minggao, the chief China economist for Citibank in Hong Kong, said in a telephone interview. ''Basically, Premier Wen said it's a kind of protectionism to ask other countries to appreciate their currency and depreciate their own currency. In that sense, it's a new understanding of currency policies.''
 Mr. Wen argued that the renminbi is not unfairly valued.
 One leading Chinese economist, Bai Chong-en of Tsinghua University in Beijing, said in an interview on Sunday that for a broad range of technical reasons, he did not believe that the renminbi was seriously undervalued. But he also suggested that Western exhortations to revalue the currency were having the opposite effect.
 ''The greater the outside pressure, the more difficult it is for the Chinese government to raise the exchange rate, and the more difficult it is for the Chinese people to accept a revaluation of the Chinese currency,'' he said. ''People don't like to be forced to change things.''
 In a wide-ranging news conference that drew on both Chinese and foreign questioners, Mr. Wen repeated some basic government positions -- China is an underdeveloped nation that will need a century or more to reach advanced status, he said -- and a few new ones.
 Addressing a chorus of complaints by foreign investors, he said China would ''put in place institutional arrangements to level the playing ground'' for foreign companies in China, and he promised to meet personally with foreign business leaders during his final years in office. Some of China's economic stimulus measures, like subsidizing purchases of new automobiles and home appliances, applied to products by foreign manufacturers as well as domestic ones, he said.
 He also said that he had been excluded from a crucial meeting of world leaders at last year's Copenhagen conference on climate change and had not deliberately skipped the meeting, as some at the conference charged. Mr. Wen's absence from that session, which was attended by President Obama and other leaders, has been mentioned by critics as a symbol of China's intransigence on the climate. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Prime Minister Wen Jiabao after a news conference where he criticized calls to let the value of China's currency increase.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT THAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BAILOUTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



390 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: China Uses Rules On Global Trade To Its Advantage

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- With China's exports soaring, even as other major economies struggle to recover from the recession, evidence is mounting that Beijing is skillfully using inconsistencies in international trade rules to spur its own economy at the expense of others, including the United States.
 Seeking to maintain its export dominance, China is engaged in a two-pronged effort: fighting protectionism among its trade partners and holding down the value of its currency. 
 China vigorously defends its economic policies. On Sunday, Premier Wen Jiabao criticized international pressure on China to let the currency appreciate, calling it ''finger pointing.'' He said that the renminbi, China's currency, would be kept ''basically stable.'' 
 To maximize its advantage, Beijing is exploiting a fundamental difference between two major international bodies: the World Trade Organization, which wields strict, enforceable penalties for countries that impede trade, and the International Monetary Fund, which acts as a kind of watchdog for global economic policy but has no power over countries like China that do not borrow money from it. 
 China had a $198 billion trade surplus with the rest of the world last year, with its exports to the United States outpacing imports by more than four to one. Despite that, in the last 12 months, Beijing has filed more cases with the W.T.O.'s powerful trade tribunals in Geneva than any other country complaining about another's trade practices.
 In addition, Beijing has worked to suppress a series of I.M.F. reports since 2007 documenting how the country has substantially undervalued its currency, the renminbi, said three people with detailed knowledge of China's actions.
 China buys dollars and other foreign currencies -- worth several hundred billion dollars a year -- by selling more of its own currency, which then depresses its value. That intervention helped Chinese exports to surge 46 percent in February compared with a year earlier.
 Many prominent academic economists see a basic contradiction in the global system of oversight on trade and currency.
 ''Many of us would like to see the W.T.O.-style commitments -- with people's feet being held to the fire -- at other international agencies, like the I.M.F.,'' said Jagdish Bhagwati, a Columbia University economist. 
 Western countries hoped last year to bring international pressure to bear on China, after years of complaining that Beijing keeps the renminbi artificially low. 
 An undervalued currency keeps a country's exports inexpensive in foreign markets while making imports expensive. That makes a trade surplus more likely, reducing unemployment for that country while increasing unemployment in its trading partners.
 Last September, President Obama, President Hu Jintao of China and other leaders of the Group of 20 industrialized and developing countries agreed in Pittsburgh that all the G-20 countries would begin sharing their economic plans by November. The goal was to coordinate their exits from stimulus programs and prevent the world from lurching from recession straight into inflation.
 The G-20 leaders agreed that the I.M.F. would act as intermediary.
 But two people familiar with China's response said that the Chinese government missed the November deadline and then submitted a vague document containing mostly historical data. These people said that China feared giving ammunition to critics of its currency policies at the monetary fund and beyond. Both people asked for anonymity because of China's attitudes about its economic policies.
 If China is found to be manipulating its currency, it could be a political and economic challenge for the Obama administration. President Obama called on Thursday for China to introduce ''a more market-oriented exchange rate.'' China's defiant response keeps the administration in a difficult position.
 China is the biggest buyer of Treasury bonds at a time when the United States has record budget deficits and needs China to keep buying those bonds to finance American debt. But the Treasury also faces an April 15 deadline for whether or not to list China as a country that manipulates the value of its currency.
 If China is listed, that could embolden members of Congress who are already discussing whether to seek restrictions on Chinese exports to the United States. China would certainly criticize such retaliation as protectionism, leading to a broader deterioration in already strained bilateral relations. 
 China is starting to describe its currency interventions as stimulus. But unlike extra government spending in the United States and other countries, currency intervention does not expand global demand, but shifts it from other countries to China. 
 Two closely related scourges played a central role in the collapse of world trade in the 1930s: protectionism and beggar-thy-neighbor currency devaluations. World leaders set up two institutions after World War II, now known as the W.T.O. and the I.M.F., to reduce the risk of another Great Depression.
 Unlike its predecessor, which had weak arbitration panels whose rulings could be easily blocked by the losing country, the trade organization has had powerful tribunals since 1995. These tribunals can clear the way for the imposition of sanctions running into the billions of dollars.
 Filing a case against another country is the heaviest artillery available to countries in trade disputes. But it also is expensive. Preparing a case and pushing it through a tribunal can easily require millions of dollars in legal expenses, and low-income countries seldom file them. 
 China joined the W.T.O. in 2001 and in its first seven years filed only three cases. But it has stepped up its pace recently, and has filed four of the 15 cases in the last year: two against the United States, on poultry and tires, and two against the European Union, on steel fasteners and poultry. 
 The monetary fund has not acquired similar powers to the trade organization. 
 I.M.F. policies call for it to disclose documents and information on a timely basis, with the deletion only of market-moving information. But under the rules a member country may decide to withhold a report, an organization official said.
 China allowed the release of its reports until the monetary fund's executive board decided in June 2007 that reports should pay more attention to currency policies. China has quietly blocked release of reports on its policies ever since, without providing its specific reasons to the I.M.F.
 A person who has seen copies of the most recent report last summer said that the monetary fund staff concluded the renminbi was ''substantially undervalued.''
 The monetary fund regards a currency as substantially undervalued if it is more than 20 percent below its fair market value.
 More than four-fifths of the I.M.F.'s members allow publication of the agency's annual staff reports on their economies. Countries blocking release are mostly tightly controlled places like Myanmar, Sudan, Turkmenistan and Saudi Arabia, although Brazil has also not released its reports.
 China's central bank did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment.
 The main indicator of a country's intervention in currency markets is its level of foreign reserves. China halted the gradual appreciation of the renminbi against the dollar in July 2008; from June 30, 2008, through Dec. 31 of last year, China's foreign exchange reserves rose by $590 billion. A small part of the increase reflected interest on bonds, the appreciation of stocks and currency fluctuations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China defends its economic policies, like holding down the value of its currency, the renminbi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); RECESSION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%); HU JINTAO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); SWITZERLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



391 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Taking On China

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Tensions are rising over Chinese economic policy, and rightly so: China's policy of keeping its currency, the renminbi, undervalued has become a significant drag on global economic recovery. Something must be done.
 To give you a sense of the problem: Widespread complaints that China was manipulating its currency -- selling renminbi and buying foreign currencies, so as to keep the renminbi weak and China's exports artificially competitive -- began around 2003. At that point China was adding about $10 billion a month to its reserves, and in 2003 it ran an overall surplus on its current account -- a broad measure of the trade balance -- of $46 billion.
 Today, China is adding more than $30 billion a month to its $2.4 trillion hoard of reserves. The International Monetary Fund expects China to have a 2010 current surplus of more than $450 billion -- 10 times the 2003 figure. This is the most distortionary exchange rate policy any major nation has ever followed. 
 And it's a policy that seriously damages the rest of the world. Most of the world's large economies are stuck in a liquidity trap -- deeply depressed, but unable to generate a recovery by cutting interest rates because the relevant rates are already near zero. China, by engineering an unwarranted trade surplus, is in effect imposing an anti-stimulus on these economies, which they can't offset. 
 So how should we respond? First of all, the U.S. Treasury Department must stop fudging and obfuscating. 
 Twice a year, by law, Treasury must issue a report identifying nations that ''manipulate the rate of exchange between their currency and the United States dollar for purposes of preventing effective balance of payments adjustments or gaining unfair competitive advantage in international trade.'' The law's intent is clear: the report should be a factual determination, not a policy statement. In practice, however, Treasury has been both unwilling to take action on the renminbi and unwilling to do what the law requires, namely explain to Congress why it isn't taking action. Instead, it has spent the past six or seven years pretending not to see the obvious.
 Will the next report, due April 15, continue this tradition? Stay tuned.
 If Treasury does find Chinese currency manipulation, then what? Here, we have to get past a common misunderstanding: the view that the Chinese have us over a barrel, because we don't dare provoke China into dumping its dollar assets.
 What you have to ask is, What would happen if China tried to sell a large share of its U.S. assets? Would interest rates soar? Short-term U.S. interest rates wouldn't change: they're being kept near zero by the Fed, which won't raise rates until the unemployment rate comes down. Long-term rates might rise slightly, but they're mainly determined by market expectations of future short-term rates. Also, the Fed could offset any interest-rate impact of a Chinese pullback by expanding its own purchases of long-term bonds. 
 It's true that if China dumped its U.S. assets the value of the dollar would fall against other major currencies, such as the euro. But that would be a good thing for the United States, since it would make our goods more competitive and reduce our trade deficit. On the other hand, it would be a bad thing for China, which would suffer large losses on its dollar holdings. In short, right now America has China over a barrel, not the other way around.
 So we have no reason to fear China. But what should we do?
 Some still argue that we must reason gently with China, not confront it. But we've been reasoning with China for years, as its surplus ballooned, and gotten nowhere: on Sunday Wen Jiabao, the Chinese prime minister, declared -- absurdly -- that his nation's currency is not undervalued. (The Peterson Institute for International Economics estimates that the renminbi is undervalued by between 20 and 40 percent.) And Mr. Wen accused other nations of doing what China actually does, seeking to weaken their currencies ''just for the purposes of increasing their own exports.''
 But if sweet reason won't work, what's the alternative? In 1971 the United States dealt with a similar but much less severe problem of foreign undervaluation by imposing a temporary 10 percent surcharge on imports, which was removed a few months later after Germany, Japan and other nations raised the dollar value of their currencies. At this point, it's hard to see China changing its policies unless faced with the threat of similar action -- except that this time the surcharge would have to be much larger, say 25 percent. 
 I don't propose this turn to policy hardball lightly. But Chinese currency policy is adding materially to the world's economic problems at a time when those problems are already very severe. It's time to take a stand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



392 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 FRUSTRATION GROWS IN IRAQ 
 At Slow Pace of Vote Tally
 With results still trickling in from Iraq's parliamentary elections last week and no clear winners likely to emerge anytime soon, public frustration seems to be growing, and American officials are concerned that even a fair election might be made to appear unfair. PAGE A8
 AFGHAN CITY SEEKS SUPPORT 
 A day after five lethal bombs shook Kandahar, Afghanistan, officials appealed to the central Afghan government to send more security forces and expand intelligence gathering in the southern province, underscoring the increasing lawlessness in the city. PAGE A6 
 SOCIALISTS LEAD FRENCH VOTE
 The opposition Socialists appeared to beat the ruling party of President Nicolas Sarkozy in a first round of regional elections noted for a record abstention, according to partial official results released. PAGE A8
 National
 NEW REPORT IS CRITICAL 
 Of Transparency Efforts
 A report by a private research group suggests that the results of President Obama's transparency push have been decidedly mixed across the federal government, with progress slow and erratic. PAGE A12
 A FAILED BIPARTISAN PUSH
 A monthlong effort by Senators Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Bob Corker of Tennessee to put together a bill on financial regulation failed, and is a reminder of how difficult bipartisan negotiation remains in Washington. The Caucus. PAGE A12
 New York
 NEW JERSEY SCHOOLS BRACE 
 For Cuts Under Christie
 Schools across New Jersey are bracing for what they fear will be more crippling cuts when Gov. Christopher J. Christie, who is trying to close a $2.2 billion budget deficit in the current fiscal year, unveils his budget proposal for the coming fiscal year. PAGE A17
 ENFORCING A SMOKING BAN
 The Bloomberg administration is moving closer to shutting the M2 UltraLounge on West 28th Street in Manhattan, one of the largest and busiest nightclubs in the city, as part of an aggressive new strategy to revoke the operating licenses of clubs that health officials believe promote smoking. PAGE A19
 Business
 TRADE PAPERS STRUGGLING
 To Survive in Hollywood
 Many people who live and die by entertainment news wonder if classic trade publishing, as practiced by Variety and its younger rival, The Hollywood Reporter, can survive. PAGE B1
 TALKING BACK TO YOUR TV SET
 Television, historically an extremely passive way of consuming media, could become a hybrid form of professionally produced content and crowd-sourced comments. David Carr, The Media Equation. PAGE B1
 A NARROW NEWS DIET
 A new report by Pew's Project for Excellence in Journalism says that even with a vast array of digital choices, ''promiscuous'' news consumption goes only so far. About 57 percent of the Internet news audience relies on two to five sites. PAGE B2
 Arts
 THE INVESTORS WHO FORESAW
 The Economic Collapse
 The danger posed by unstable subprime mortgages was not foreseen by the executives of America's premier banks or government regulators, but by a handful of investors, who were aghast at what they saw on Wall Street. Some of their stories are told by Michael Lewis in ''The Big Short.'' Review by Michiko Kakutani. PAGE C1
 A DIVA ON THE SKIDS
 In Matthew Lombardo's play ''Looped,'' Valerie Harper stars as the actress Tallulah Bankhead in her twilight moments. Charles Isherwood writes that the play is a diva vehicle that resurrects the stereotypical Bankhead -- foulmouthed, hard drinking, foghorn voiced and sex crazed -- for another stagger across the stage. PAGE C1
 Sports
 PACQUIAO'S FOCUS TURNS 
 From Boxing to Politics
 After successfully defending his welterweight championship with a unanimous decision over Joshua Clottey, Manny Pacquiao will return to the Philippines to begin his second political campaign, this time for a congressional seat and the right to represent about 400,000 people. But Pacquiao's campaign will almost certainly be a long shot. PAGE D7
 TOMLINSON SIGNS WITH JETS
 LaDainian Tomlinson was offered a two-year contract to become the Jets' newest running back, giving him a chance to perhaps complete his Hall of Fame career with themand play behind what may be the N. F. L.'s best offensive line. PAGE D8
 Obituaries
 REV. ROBERT CARTER, 82
 In the early 1970s, he was one of the first Roman Catholic priests in the country to declare publicly that he was gay. He helped found the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. PAGE B11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); BUDGETS (87%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); JOURNALISM (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); SMOKING (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (64%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); SMOKING BANS (63%); LICENSES & PERMITS (62%); DRINKING PLACES (62%); CROWDSOURCING (60%); PUBLISHING (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); SUBPRIME LENDING (50%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BOB CORKER (55%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



393 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: The Fed's Responsibility

 BODY:
Congress passed legislation last year intended to protect consumers from the credit card industry's most deceptive and unfair practices. The main provisions finally went into effect last month. But the Federal Reserve still has to write new rules intended to stop companies from bleeding customers dry with exorbitant fees for late payments, with charges for exceeding the credit limit, or with ''any other penalty fee or charge.'' Under the statute, the Fed must write rules to ensure that these fees and charges are ''reasonable and proportional.'' 
 The Fed has a long history of putting the credit card industry first and consumers far behind, and a draft of the rules released this month is disturbingly weak. 
 The new law has outlawed many of the practices that helped drive so many Americans into irremediable debt. Companies must now provide a 45-day notice before raising interest rates, giving the customer a fair chance to cancel the card. And except in a few cases, they are forbidden to raise rates on existing balances. They can no longer switch around due dates, confusing consumers and triggering lucrative late fees, or issue credit cards to minors without finding an adult co-signer or establishing proof that the young person can pay. 
 Some of the Fed's proposed rules would give consumers additional protection. Fees for exceeding the credit limit would now have to be proportional to the infraction -- no more $39 fees for going $10 over your limit. The new rules would ban pernicious ''inactivity fees,'' which charge people for not using their cards
 Other draft rules are far too weak or ambiguous -- clearing the way for further abuses. The proposed new rules would require card issuers who have raised interest rates since Jan. 1, 2009, to evaluate whether the reasons for those increases are still valid and to reduce the rate where appropriate. The Fed needs to make clear exactly when and under what conditions a rate reduction is in order.
 The biggest flaw is that the proposed rules fail to regulate so-called ''penalty interest'' charges, under which interest rates can be doubled or even tripled for infractions like late payments. The Fed tries to defend this omission by arguing that the proportionality provision in the legislation does not specifically refer to penalty interest rates. 
 That's a convenient interpretation if you own a credit card company. But the Fed, which has broad authority in these matters, is supposed to be working on behalf of consumers. Beyond that, the statute clearly states that any and all penalty fees and charges should be ''reasonable and proportional,'' which is to say not usurious. 
 In general, the credit card companies have proved that they will not respect this standard. That means the Fed will have to set clear limits on how interest penalties can be applied. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



394 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include industrial production for February (Monday); import prices for February and housing starts for February (Tuesday); producer price index for February (Wednesday); and weekly jobless claims, consumer price index for February, fourth-quarter current account deficit, Conference Board leading economic indicators for February, and Philadelphia Fed manufacturing index (Thursday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Reports will come from Ambac Financial and Discover Financial Services (Tuesday); Nike (Wednesday); and FedEx and Palm (Thursday).
 IN WASHINGTON Senator Christopher J. Dodd, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, is expected to introduce legislation to overhaul financial regulations (Monday); the Federal Open Market Committee meets to discuss monetary policy, and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Peter R. Orszag, below, the White House budget director, testify about the budget before the House Appropriations Committee (Tuesday); the House Financial Services Committee conducts a hearing on the link between Federal Reserve bank supervision and monetary policy (Wednesday); and a House Financial Services subcommittee conducts a hearing on supervision of insurance holding companies (Thursday). 
 OVERSEAS European finance ministers meet to discuss the Greek debt crisis (Monday and Tuesday); OPEC meets in Vienna to discuss the level of crude oil production (Wednesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (79%); DEBT CRISIS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); HOUSING STARTS (79%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EURO CRISIS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (73%); INSURANCE (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); OIL EXTRACTION (65%); HOLDING COMPANIES (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (57%); DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

TICKER: DFS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (57%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (55%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (65%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



395 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: The Early Release of Prisoners

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Safety Is Issue as Budget Cuts Free Prisoners'' (front page, March 5) sounds a false alarm about the risks of parole and early-release programs. 
 New York and New Jersey are among several states that have dramatically reduced their prison populations and still crime rates have fallen. The United States is the incarceration capital of the world, yet more than half of those behind bars are there for low-level drug offenses and other nonviolent crimes. Even among people who are returned to prison on parole violations, more than 50 percent are sent back for technical violations like missing a meeting or failing a drug test. The economic crisis is a reckoning day for states that have pursued bad policies for too long. Fear-mongering led to this incarceration binge, and it should not be allowed to stand in the way of sound reforms.
 Legislators and law enforcement officials who are untangling this mess by looking for smart policies that keep us safe should be applauded, not scapegoated.
 Leonard E. Noisette Director, Criminal Justice Fund Open Society Institute New York, March 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAROLE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRISONS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); DRUG TESTING (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: OPEN SOCIETY INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



396 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People & Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 Beiersdorf, Hamburg, Germany, which sells brands like Eucerin and Nivea, shifted its United States media planning and buying account to Carat, New York, part of the Aegis Group, from OMD, New York, part of the Omnicom Group. Spending was estimated at $100 million. The change was reported by AdAge.com and Adweek.com.
 Ikea U.S., Conshohocken, Pa., selected Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, New York, part of WPP, to handle its creative account, which had been handled by Deutsch, New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Deutsch had been the creative agency for Ikea U.S., part of the Swedish company Ikea, since 2006; they parted ways last month during a review for the assignment, which began in November. Deutsch also worked for Ikea from 1989 to 2000. The Hispanic part of the account is also being shifted, to the Miami office of another WPP agency, Segarra, Cuesta, Piug, Fernandez de Castro; it had been handled by Anita Santiago Advertising, Santa Monica, Calif., which since the review began was acquired and absorbed by the Phelps Group, Santa Monica. Total spending for Ikea is estimated at $90 million. 
 Orbitz Worldwide, Chicago, named BBDO New York -- part of the BBDO North America division of BBDO Worldwide, a unit of the Omnicom Group -- to handle its creative account, which had been handled by Trailer Park, Hollywood, Calif. Spending was estimated at $40 million. The assignment was the third recent creative account won by a BBDO North America office, coming after the Atlanta office landed the Florida Department of Citrus and the Chicago office (known as Energy BBDO) gained Extra gum.
 National Pork Board, Des Moines, chose Schafer Condon Carter, Chicago, as its consumer branding and advertising agency of record. Spending for the assignment, which had been handled by the Richards Group, Dallas, was estimated at $11 million. 
 Century 21 Real Estate, Parsippany, N.J., part of the Realogy Corporation, chose two agencies owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies to handle assignments with spending estimated at $11 million. MRM Worldwide, New York, part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of Interpublic, will become the lead agency for national advertising. The other Interpublic agency, Mullen, Boston, will be the lead agency for public relations and social media. The primary creative agency for Century 21 had been McGarryBowen, New York.
 People
 Bill Reihl, head of consumer marketing for the New York office of Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide, was promoted to a new post, executive vice president and head of the North American consumer marketing practice. Ogilvy Public Relations is part of the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide division of WPP. 
 Jodi Andrews joined KSL Media, New York, as senior vice president and managing director, with primary responsibility for the Bacardi account, including brands like Bacardi, Bombay Sapphire and Grey Goose. She succeeds Nicole Portwood, who resigned, the agency said. Ms. Andrews had been a vice president at MediaCom, New York, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, where she managed the Diageo account.
 Miscellany
 The New York Times is responding to plans by The Wall Street Journal, part of the News Corporation, to introduce a New York edition next month, with a trade campaign, created internally, that is intended to promote advertising in the print and online editions of The Times, in New York and nationally. The Times will present itself as a more effective advertising vehicle than The Journal in reaching desirable consumers like business professionals, the affluent, women and arts enthusiasts. The campaign takes a more assertive tone than is typical in trade ads from The Times, which rarely mention competitors by name. The campaign is to appear in media like Advertising Age, Adweek.com, Brandweek.com, Mediabistro.com, Mediaweek.com, Variety.com and Women's Wear Daily. There will also be ads in The New York Times and on NYTimes.com; ads on bus shelters, newsstands and phone kiosks in Manhattan; and coffee giveaways at ad agencies with cups wrapped in sleeves bearing ads. Spending was not disclosed. 
 American Women in Radio and Television, McLean, Va., was renamed the Alliance for Women in Media.
 A poll conducted for Engauge, Columbus, Ohio, by the Mellman Group found that the financial crisis and recession had eroded consumer trust in companies based on the east and west coasts. Thirty-nine percent of respondents said their trust in companies based in New York City had decreased, and 36 percent said that about companies based on the West Coast. By comparison, only 20 percent said their trust had diminished in companies based in the Midwest or in ''the heartland.'' Asked which companies understand their needs very well or pretty well, 56 percent of respondents identified heartland companies, followed by 52 percent for companies in the Midwest, 38 percent for companies on the West Coast and 36 percent for companies in New York City. Only 29 percent of respondents said that companies in New York City shared their values very well or pretty well; the response rates were 35 percent for West Coast companies, 51 percent for Midwest companies and 54 percent for heartland companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); EXECUTIVES (84%); BRANDING (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); PORK (73%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (71%); TRAILER PARKS (50%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (93%); BEIERSDORF AG (92%); NIVEA POLSKA SA (91%); AEGIS GROUP PLC (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (86%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (85%); WPP PLC (85%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (68%); REALOGY CORP (64%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (63%); IKEA NORTH AMERICA LLC (58%); PHELPS GROUP (56%); BBDO NEW YORK (55%); SCHAFER CONDON CARTER (53%); CENTURY 21 REAL ESTATE CORP (53%); OGILVY PUBLIC RELATIONS WORLDWIDE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF CITRUS (54%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (93%); BEI (FRA) (92%); AGS (LSE) (91%); IPG (NYSE) (86%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (85%); WPP (LSE) (85%); OWW (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (68%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (68%); NAICS541191 TITLE ABSTRACT & SETTLEMENT OFFICES (64%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (64%); SIC5712 FURNITURE STORES (58%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (53%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



397 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Millions Being Spent to Sway Democrats on Health Care Bill

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The yearlong legislative fight over health care is drawing to a frenzied close as a multimillion-dollar wave of advertising that rivals the ferocity of a presidential campaign takes aim at about 40 House Democrats whose votes will help determine the fate of President Obama's top domestic priority.
 The coalition of groups opposing the legislation, led by the United States Chamber of Commerce, is singling out 27 Democrats who supported the health care bill last year and 13 who opposed it. The organizations have already spent $11 million this month focusing on these lawmakers, with more spending to come before an expected vote next weekend. 
 An alliance of groups supporting the health care plan, which works closely with the White House and Democratic leaders, had been spending far less and focusing on fewer districts. But after pharmaceutical companies made a $12 million investment for a final advertising push, spending by both sides for the first time is now nearly the same. 
 Not only are these swing Democrats being pummeled in the new spate of advertising -- which could total $30 million before week's end -- but extensive efforts are under way in Congressional districts, where groups on both sides of the issue are using tactics similar to get-out-the-vote drives to urge constituents to contact their lawmakers. Mr. Obama is calling lawmakers, too, and on Monday is traveling to Ohio to open a weeklong campaign to close this act of the health care debate.
 Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 Democrat in the House, said Sunday on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC that he had yet to lock down enough votes to pass the bill. But he added: ''We'll be working it going into the week. I am also very confident that we'll get this done.''
 Several on-the-fence Democrats said they were scrambling to sort out their constituents' views as the outside noise grows deafening.
 ''There is definitely more passion from people opposed to the bill,'' said Representative Jason Altmire of Pennsylvania, whose offices have been inundated with protests and calls. ''I have to decide between passing this bill or doing nothing at all. I need to do what's best for my district.''
 Mr. Altmire was among the 39 Democrats who voted against the bill last year. He is included in what party leaders call the ''No to Yes'' campaign. Others are targets of ''Yes to Yes,'' which encourages Democrats who reluctantly supported health care to do so again, even if the measure is considerably different.
 With Republicans unified in opposition to the legislation, the party's Congressional committee is turning its attention to a small contingent of Democrats and issuing ''Code Red'' alerts each time a lawmaker says how he or she intends to vote.
 The Chamber of Commerce is leading the opposition to the health care bill with a coalition called Employers for a Healthy Economy. In two weeks, the group has bought more than $7 million in television advertising and plans to spend up to $3 million more. Americans for Prosperity, a group financed by David Koch, the oilman, is also jumping into the fray with an advertising campaign of nearly $1 million. 
 For weeks, Democrats who support the health care legislation have struggled to compete with the opposition. A disparity in radio and television advertisements, along with calls and mailings, meant that the lawmakers Mr. Obama and Speaker Nancy Pelosi were trying to persuade to vote for the measure were taking a pounding in their districts.
 The new money from Pharma, the association of drug makers, as well as contributions from labor unions and other groups helped equalize the advertising fight. This week, officials said, the groups backing the legislation will focus extensively on the insurance industry with this theme: ''When insurance companies win, you lose.''
 The strategies for the climactic week ahead go well beyond vote counting in the corridors of the Capitol. Until this week, a divided Democratic Party struggled to raise money to compete with forces rallying against the measure, so creative approaches were used.
 Television advertisements were cost-prohibitive in the district of Representative John Adler of New Jersey, who voted against the health care bill last year, so proponents formed a special grass-roots action campaign. A dozen members of the clergy who support overhauling the health care system recently met with the congressman's rabbi, who said he would talk to Mr. Adler about the legislation.
 Mr. Obama is making daily telephone calls to Democrats who supported the health care bill last year, but have yet to decide how they intend to vote this time. He is also focusing on those who opposed the legislation, including Representative Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, who said the measure did not go far enough.
 The president's trip to Ohio includes Mr. Kucinich's district, and he invited the congressman to join him aboard Air Force One. Mr. Kucinich said he was grateful for the ride and for the president's visit, but added that he was disinclined to support the bill as it stands.
 ''Barack Obama is my president; I want him to succeed,'' Mr. Kucinich said in an interview. ''But I think it's important to have real health care reform. I wish I could vote for it, but I don't think I can.''
 The health care debate is unfolding against the backdrop of an already difficult political year for Democrats. The White House has signaled to lawmakers that assistance for midterm elections -- for example, presidential visits and fund-raisers -- will be prioritized for those who support the bill. 
 Organizing for America, the network of volunteers that developed from the Obama campaign, is also developing an extensive plan to help explain the health care bill to voters in the event that it passes. 
 ''We want to make sure that members know as they get ready to take this hard vote that they have troops underneath them to fight and scrap to get this passed and to help sell it,'' said Brad Woodhouse, communications director for the Democratic Party. 
 A few Democrats have been offered dispensations, including Representative Artur Davis of Alabama, who is no longer being pressed to vote for the bill because he is running for governor and the health care measure is not popular in Alabama. Other Democrats voting against the bill also have been taken off the target list, party officials said, to save money for lawmakers who are more apt to be won over.
 As the urgency for Democrats increases for the health care overhaul, a pragmatic air is settling in among some Democratic groups that once were lukewarm to the legislation. 
 Moveon.org, the liberal advocacy group, took a vote of its membership last week and found that 83 percent said the House should pass the Senate bill. Not long ago, the group was urging Democrats to push for a stronger measure that included a public option.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: On the Hot Seat for Health Care: A coalition of Democratic groups supporting the health care bill is focusing on a handful of Democratic House members whose votes could determine its outcome. (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: JAMES CLYBURN (57%); JASON ALTMIRE (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



398 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: As Health Vote Awaits, Future of a Presidency Waits, Too

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, had a little political advice last week for President Obama and the Democrats: Don't pass the president's health care legislation because you would risk losing in the midterm elections.
 Mr. Obama laughed about it afterward. ''I generally wouldn't take advice about what's good for Democrats'' from Mr. McConnell, he told an audience in Pennsylvania. But he conceded that ''that's what members of Congress are hearing right now on the cable shows and in sort of the gossip columns in Washington.'' He went on to argue that the issue should be what's right, not the politics.
 But this is Washington and politics are never far from the surface, especially at a decisive moment like this. If the schedule being mapped last week holds and Mr. Obama's senior adviser, David Axelrod, said on Sunday that it would -- the fate of the president's health care plan should be decided within the week. ''I believe we will have'' the votes, Mr. Axelrod said on ABC's ''This Week,'' though Republicans and even some Democrats have questioned whether the votes are there now. 
 But the plan's fate could depend on how a couple dozen Democratic congressmen answer the questions Mr. McConnell and Mr. Obama raised: Would passing health care devastate Democratic chances in the fall? Would rejecting it devastate a Democratic presidency?
 Washington is already debating how pivotal the vote will be to his presidency. Mr. Obama has devoted vast energy and political capital over the last 14 months to get to this point, the presidential equivalent of an all-in bet on the poker table. Should he fail to push his plan through a Congress with strong Democratic majorities, it would certainly damage his credibility as a leader for months, and maybe years. Already the fight has scarred Washington, leaving behind a polarized and angry political elite and questions about whether the system is broken.
 If Mr. Obama falls short on health care, his hopes of passing other ambitious legislation like an overhaul of immigration and a market-based cap on carbon emissions to curb climate change would seem out of reach, at least for the rest of this year. Much of Washington would question whether he is weak, some Democratic candidates would run away from him and Mr. Obama would be forced to consider a narrower agenda like that pursued by Bill Clinton after his own health care drive collapsed.
 At the same time, passing it has its risks too. While a bill-signing ceremony in the Rose Garden would provide at least a short-term boost to a beleaguered president, Republicans have made clear that the legislative procedure Democrats are using to avoid another filibuster would so anger them that they would not cooperate on other major initiatives this year.
 ''If they jam through health care,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, then Democrats will have ''poisoned the well'' on other issues. He was interviewed Sunday on ABC's ''This Week.''
 An immigration proposal he has been working on with Senator Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, would likely fall victim to the worsened environment, he said.
 If Mr. Obama and the Democrats succeed, the challenge over the next eight months will be to convince the public that the program is better than polls suggest they think it is. And while some of its features would take effect right away, particularly popular limits on abuses by insurance companies, much of its impact in terms of coverage for the uninsured would not kick in until long after the fall election.
 ''If and when this is passed, Democrats will run aggressively on this,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. ''We relish the idea of Republicans running on the Tea Party mantle of repeal.''
 But Karl Rove, the former senior adviser to President George W. Bush, said Republicans relish the fight as well. ''If they pass it,'' he said about the Democrats, ''they're dead in the polls.''
 Past presidents have suffered the consequences of big initiatives. Mr. Bush failed to get a Republican Congress to approve his overhaul of Social Security in 2005, undercutting his ability to pass other major proposals for the rest of his term. In hindsight, Mr. Rove said he wished the Bush White House had led off the second term with immigration and chalked up a bipartisan victory before moving on to Social Security.
 The more salient precedent remains Mr. Clinton's health care drive, which ran aground in a Democratic Congress in his first term. The debacle fueled the electoral sweep that handed Congress to the Republicans in 1994. Democrats have bitter memories. ''A lot of them have P.T.S.D. from 1994,'' said a White House official, referring to post-traumatic stress disorder.
 Among those who lost reelection that year was Marjorie Margolies Mezvinsky, a freshman Democrat from Pennsylvania who cast the deciding vote on Mr. Clinton's budget package, which cut the deficit through spending cuts and a tax increase on the wealthy.
 The former congresswoman, who now goes by Marjorie Margolies, recalled last week that she had boiled down her explanation of her vote to four minutes. The problem was that her opponents had boiled down their criticism of her to a 30-second advertisement. ''It's very hard to push back on that 30 seconds and that's what these members are going to face and that's what these members are scared about,'' she said.
 Rahm Emanuel, a former top adviser to Mr. Clinton who now serves as White House chief of staff, has often said Mr. Clinton's problem was not taking on health care but losing on health care. Unlike Mr. Rove, Mr. McConnell and other Repubicans, Thomas M. Davis III, a former congressman who served in the Republican leadership, said failure to pass health care would be worse for Democrats than passing it.
 ''If they pass nothing, their base -- the college professors, the African-Americans, all the surge voters who put them there, they just walk,'' Mr. Davis said. ''You don't want to think about it.'' The best option at that point for Mr. Obama, he added, would be to push through a narrower health care bill and argue to the base that at least he tried for the more expansive version.
 Still, for all the potential consequences, it is probably too hyperbolic to suggest the presidency rides on this moment. If he fails this week, Mr. Obama could still recover. Even a weakened president has enormous capacity to set an agenda. For all the damage Mr. Clinton absorbed from the failure of his health care plan and the Republican takeover, he eventually found his footing again and won re-election handily.
 Of course, he and Mr. Bush both recovered from early troubles in part because of leadership during moments of crisis -- Mr. Clinton after the bombing in Oklahoma City in 1995 and Mr. Bush after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. That may be harder for Mr. Obama, who inherited crises from the start in the form of two wars and an economic meltdown. The botched Christmas Day bombing suggested that Mr. Obama might face recriminations in case of a new crisis.
 But he has the benefit of time and residual personal popularity, not to mention an opposition with its own challenges. ''I don't think this will bring down the Obama presidency,'' said Mickey Edwards, a former Republican congressman from Oklahoma. ''People understand that there's a Congress and there are other issues and no matter how much of a hit the Democrats take in the elections this fall, there's still a lot of things he can do in the next three years.''
 The problem for Mr. Obama, Mr. Edwards added, is that he has raised the stakes himself so high. ''If he says this is make-or-break and my presidency depends on what the American people think of this issue,'' he said, ''then he's putting himself in a bad spot.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); EMISSIONS (63%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITCH MCCONNELL (89%); DAVID AXELROD (73%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



399 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: With Financial Reform Bill, a Test for Congress

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate Democrats will press forward this week on legislation to overhaul the nation's financial system in a critical test of whether Washington can pass reform. 
 The bill that Christopher J. Dodd, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, will introduce on Monday appears written with the goal of forging a consensus that can overcome partisan division, with provisions that incorporate ideas from both Democrats and Republicans. 
 Among the most recent provisions in the bill to emerge, according to people who have been briefed on the draft, is one that would curb Wall Street's influence over the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Its president would be appointed by the president of the United States, not by a board that includes representatives of member banks. 
 Another rule would ban bank officers from sitting on the New York Fed's board, meaning that Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, would probably have to leave the board. 
 The legislation would create a consumer protection agency within the Federal Reserve to write rules governing mortgages, credit cards and other financial products, said the people, who insisted on anonymity because the details were still in flux. 
 In a concession to liberals, states' attorneys general could sue violators of those rules, and the agency would have enforcement powers over large banks, mortgage originators and servicers, and other large lenders. 
 But in a nod to Republicans, the bill would allow a council of regulators, led by the Treasury, to overturn proposed consumer rules by a two-thirds vote. And although the consumer protection agency would have a director appointed by the president, it would be housed within the Fed, an anathema for consumer advocates. 
 The bill would also reshape the regulatory role of the Fed. It would be entrusted for the first time with oversight of all of the largest and most interconnected financial companies, even if they are not banks. And it would continue to oversee the largest bank holding companies, those with $50 billion or more in assets -- about 35 companies, including Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley.
 But even as the details were being hammered out Sunday evening, questions remained: can Democrats tap into the vein of populist anger over the excesses of Wall Street and shepherd the bill through, 18 months after the near-collapse of the banking system almost wrecked the economy? And can they avoid getting caught up in the partisan struggle that has held back health-care reform?
 For now, after months of stop-and-start bipartisan talks, the Democrats are going it alone on one of the Obama administration's top priorities. 
 ''This is certainly the farthest thing from 'take it or leave it,' '' said Senator Jack Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat. ''This has been going on for months.'' 
 He said of Republicans: ''I've just got to ask the question of whether they want to have agreement, and whether they want to have the legislation go forward. I think we do. I know the American public does.''
 Republicans have been pushing back, but without trying to seem like allies of big banks or opponents of reform. After Mr. Dodd announced on Tuesday that he planned for a committee vote before Congress recesses on March 26, Republicans lashed out over the timetable.
 In a letter last Friday to Mr. Dodd, the 10 Republicans on the Banking Committee said they remained ''open to finding common ground'' but added that ''a markup scheduled in haste would certainly prevent'' a bipartisan consensus.
 Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, who had spearheaded Republican talks on the bill, said last week: ''If the senators can pass a bill of this substance out of committee in a week -- a 1,200-page bill full of substance, that has a real effect on the financial industry -- then the states who elect them might as well send robots to the Senate.''
 Republicans have also said that the poisonous atmosphere over health care had spread. ''Never did I realize that health care would affect financial regulation,'' Mr. Corker said. 
 Senator Jeff Merkley, an Oregon Democrat who is ideologically an opposite to Mr. Corker in many respects, agreed that the debate had gotten bogged down.
 ''Health care has delayed it,'' he said. ''I'm not happy. I think we should have gotten this done earlier, and it's why Dodd is right to keep taking this forward. We can't sit around. It has been too long.'' 
 The bill would also empower the government to seize a company that poses a systemic risk to the financial system; create a Treasury-led council to watch for such risk; create safeguards against excessive risk-taking of the kind that caused the housing crisis; establish an agency to crack down on abusive lending; and revamp the supervision of banks, the governance of corporations and the trading of derivatives. 
 Perhaps the most hotly debated feature in the legislation has been the new consumer protection agency, and its placement within the Fed is certain to disappoint those angry at the Fed for long failing to protect consumers. ''If indeed it's going to be an independent operation and it's simply 'renting space' from the Fed, the question is, 'Why the Fed?' '' said Senator Merkley, who has been an advocate, along with Mr. Reed, on consumer issues. 
 The bill would revamp governance of public companies, empowering shareholders to have advisory votes on executive pay and to nominate directors through company-issued proxy ballots. Corporations have lobbied vigorously against those provisions, fearing that shareholder activism could spill over from annual meetings into boardrooms. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat who has advocated more rights for shareholders, said that the provisions were modest and that corporations opposing them risked being viewed as obstructionist.
 ''Many of them think that if they push back hard enough, there will be no reform in this area,'' he said. 
 J. Alfred Broaddus Jr., a former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, called the proposal ''a mixed bag'' for the Fed. He applauded the new role for the Fed in overseeing the largest and most complex financial institutions, saying, ''That mandate has not been clear in the past.'' 
 But he said it would be a mistake to strip Fed oversight of smaller banks that would be under the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
 ''Those banks are an important link between the Fed and Main Street,'' he said.
 The bill would also reform the sprawling market for over-the-counter derivatives, making derivatives transactions more transparent. But many companies that use derivatives to hedge, or manage, commercial risk would be exempt, a source of consternation for reformers. 
 The bill would allow regulators, after a study, to implement elements of a proposal President Obama put forward in January. Named for Paul A. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, it would prohibit deposit-taking banks from investing in or owning hedge funds or private equity funds, and from making trades unrelated to their clients' interest, a practice known as proprietary trading.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Christopher Dodd, center, walked with reporters last week after saying he would push forward with a financial reform bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); BANK FAILURES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (68%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (67%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JACK REED (58%); JAMES DIMON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010



400 of 846 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: Who Needs $41 Burgers When Pizza Is Just 99[#x203a]?

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The signs at the corner of Ninth Avenue and West 41st Street have an unbelievable, you-gotta-be-kidding quality, like free beer or affordable housing -- 99[#x203a] Fresh Pizza. Like many things in New York City, they are also too good to be true. They are off by a penny, as one slice actually costs one dollar.
 Seven days a week, 24 hours a day, New Yorkers stand at the outdoor counter of 99[#x203a] Fresh Pizza and pay as much for a plain slice as they did for a subway fare in 1986. At $1.50, the fee to use the sidewalk A.T.M. nearby is more expensive. 
 This being a city with a 10.4 percent unemployment rate in January, this being a recession, there is no such thing as change that is spare. Customers, taking the signs at their word, have been known to ask for a penny back after paying with a dollar bill. 
 ''I give them penny,'' explained Mohammad Hossain, a manager at the pizza shop.
 No pennies change hands one block down Ninth Avenue, at West 40th Street, where the competition posted signs of their own: ''Pizza, $1.00 per slice, tax included.'' Postal workers, teenagers and businessmen step into the 24-hour 2 Bros. Pizza, $5 bills in hand. Allegiances have formed. Trash has been talked. A cabdriver said he preferred 99[#x203a] Fresh over 2 Bros., because it was easier to find street parking outside 99[#x203a] Fresh. A patron of 2 Bros. prefers their sauce over the sauce up the block. 
 Each establishment has the same daily special: Two slices and a can of soda for $2.75, which is what most places charge for a single slice. There is indoor seating at 2 Bros., but none at 99[#x203a] Fresh. There is grated parmesan on the counter at 99[#x203a] Fresh, but none at 2 Bros. 
 Asked who opened first, Mr. Hossain was adamant, perhaps even offended: ''This is first! This is first!''
 In New York City, the domain of the $1,000 omelet (Norma's, at Le Parker Meridien Hotel) and the $41 burger (Old Homestead Steakhouse), the dollar wars between 99[#x203a] Fresh and 2 Bros. are an unlikely development. 
 The shops are two of a growing number of New York delis and pizzerias offering $1 slices, a phenomenon that has delighted, dismayed and disturbed pizza lovers, food bloggers and rival pizzeria owners while defying a basic fundamental of the city's economy -- charging as much as you can whenever and wherever you can. 
 About 15 eateries around the city now sell dollar slices of pizza. The owners of 99[#x203a] Fresh and 2 Bros. have turned bargain pizza into a business model: There are four 99[#x203a] Fresh shops in Manhattan, and four 2 Bros., too. Next month, 99[#x203a] fresh will open its fifth shop on 34th Street near Third Avenue.
 While dollar menus have become a staple of many fast-food restaurants in New York, the low-cost pizzerias base their entire restaurants around the idea. 
 Pizza experts said the rise of dollar pizza was an economy-driven counterpoint to New York's more celebrated high-end pizza. Last year, Di Fara Pizza in Brooklyn, widely considered one of the best in the city because each pie is handmade by the owner using imported ingredients from Italy, raised the price of a plain slice to $5.
 ''I don't think a drunk college student cares about whether there's San Marzano tomatoes on their slice,'' Jason Feirman, 25, who writes a pizza blog called I Dream of Pizza, said of the $1 pizza trend. ''It's a good business model. They're not catering to food blogs. The idea is to turn out these pizzas as fast as they can.''
 Theories abound as to how an establishment can sell such cheap food in such an expensive city. Dollar pizza shops have been accused of using frozen dough, skimping on the cheese and sauce and cutting slices too small. 
 ''I think that it's great for the people that aren't interested in high-quality product,'' said Margaret Mieles, Di Fara's manager, of dollar-slice establishments.
 The owners of 2 Bros. and 99[#x203a] Fresh contend that their slices are made fresh with quality ingredients and that they make their own dough and their own pizza sauce. They describe the dollar-slice business as a kind of public service, with minimal profit margins. 
 In 2008, when the first 2 Bros. Pizza opened on St. Marks Place in the East Village, the owners decided to have a grand-opening dollar-slice special. It was so popular, they made it permanent. 
 ''Financially, it doesn't make a lot of sense, but it's part of our brand,'' Eli Halali, 26, one of the two brothers who co-own 2 Bros. Pizza, said as he stood next to sacks of General Mills enriched flour in the East Village shop.
 Abdul Mohammad, the owner of the 99[#x203a] Fresh chain, said there was no secret to his formula. His stores are in small spaces with low rent in pedestrian-heavy locations that can support a 400-pie day. ''If I sell like 20 pies, 30 pies, I cannot pay the rent, pay the employees,'' he said. ''My rent is cheap. If I pay $15,000 to $20,000 rent, I can't do dollar slices.''
 He said that he made roughly 15 cents to 20 cents profit per slice and that it was not unusual for one 99[#x203a] Fresh location to produce up to 450 pies a day. His pizza is so cheap some customers treat him like a wholesaler, ordering dozens of pies in the morning and selling the slices elsewhere -- for $2 each. 
 At lunchtime the other day at Ninth Avenue and 41st Street, 13 men and women stood on the sidewalk outside 99[#x203a] Fresh, impatiently ordering and impatiently eating slices amid the ambiance of ungentrified Hell's Kitchen: idling delivery trucks near the rear of the Port Authority Bus Terminal, a barking dog named Leo someone tied up down the block, a prostitute who hurried by saying something about $150 for a half-hour and a bearded homeless man with a cane who spoke loudly to himself about the size of the average bear. He ate two slices.
 Some rave about the slices at the two chains, saying they are as good or better than more expensive slices, while others are only mildly impressed, or flat-out unimpressed. No one, however, complains about the price. 
 Last April, Adam Kuban, 35, the managing editor of SeriousEats.com and the founder of the pizza blog Slice, had what he called a ''cheap-slice showdown'' between 99[#x203a] Fresh and 2 Bros. In part because of its ''better hole structure'' in the crust, Mr. Kuban declared 2 Bros. as the winner. Mr. Feirman of I Dream of Pizza would have voted differently, with 99[#x203a] Fresh being his preference.
 ''Is it the best pizza out there? It's not,'' Mr. Kuban said in an interview, referring to both 99[#x203a] Fresh and 2 Bros. ''But for somebody who just wants bread and sauce and cheese, it'll do you right.''
 The inspiration for the trend, said Mr. Mohammad, considered the dollar-slice trailblazer, was not the cabbies, the tourists or the late-night drinkers of Hell's Kitchen, but another demographic entirely: the homeless, who used a 24-hour drop-in center at Ninth Avenue and 41st Street. 
 ''If they want to buy Chinese food, they need $4,'' Mr. Mohammad said. ''For a slice, it's $2.50. I think about these people. I say, 'I want to do something for these people.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The 99[#x203a] Fresh Pizza at Ninth Avenue and 41st Street is one of at least 15 eateries in the city that now sell dollar slices of pizza.
A 2 Bros. Pizza at 40th Street and Ninth Avenue. For people willing to splurge, two slices and a soda are available for $2.75
 How good is the pizza at the dollar-a-slice places in the city? It is nothing fancy, but few customers have any complaint. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%)

COMPANY: MERIDIEN HOTEL (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2010

 
